ParlaMint-DK_20150206100002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Denni Flydtkjær (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 70 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of the financial penalties for the illegal import and sale of excise candy and increased control in this field). Anni Matthiesen (V), Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), Merete Riisager (LA), Daniel Rugholm (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 71 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a study of how children and young people with special needs can be guaranteed a freer choice of schools). Stine Brix (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 72 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the exemption of digital self-service). Özlem Sara Cekic (SF) and others: Question No. F 21 (Will the Ministers explain the extent of sexual harassment in the Danish workplaces and for the government's existing and future initiatives specifically aimed at eliminating sexual harassment and ensuring proper action in the cases of sexual harassment?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150206100111	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206100134	The debate is open. Mrs Tina Nedergaard as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206100147	Thank you. For the Left, it is important that we in the Folketing do our utmost to ensure that children are placed as well and securely as possible. Fortunately, the latest study shows that a great many children placed in the house are satisfied with their everyday lives, but that does not change the fact that we must always be aware of whether there is more we can do to create as good an upbringing for them as possible. That is why we in the Left also chose to focus on this in the negotiations with the government, and it is gratifying that we in the Danish Parliament agree to do everything possible to meet the needs of the children. The bill contains two elements. Firstly, there is the right to increased professional support for network care families and foster families who adopt a child who has previously been in care in the family. Secondly, the basis for changing the location of a child is strengthened so that, in the absence of consent from parents or children, the Committee on Children and Young People must decide not only on the basis of the location but also on the basis of the change in the location of the child. It is made clear that the location of the accommodation must be based on the needs of the child. That is why, for example, the Committee on Children's and Young People's Rights will: could also decide that a child should not be moved but may be granted increased support at the current location. At the same time, the age of consent is reduced from 15 years to 12 years. Today, when the child is 12 years old, the child can already complain about the location of the child, but now it is also possible to give consent from this age. The rules governing parental consent are not changed. We welcome the fact that increased professional support is offered to foster families who adopt their foster child and to network families, based on the fact that network families typically do not have the same resources as other foster families, where adults more often have a professional background and perhaps a stronger educational and social background to care for them. Network care families may also have an increased need for support for e.g. cooperation with the biological parents. The increased professional support for foster families who adopt their foster child can include: be instrumental in several good adoptions. Studies show that up to one in three foster families want to adopt their foster child, but that they are very uncertain about the task, as adoption does not guarantee the same support as a foster family. The intention is to increase the safety of the child's thriving as well as possible in his/her everyday life. The Left considers, in relation to the second element of the bill, that the professional assessment of the Committee on Children and Young People will help to ensure that the needs of the child are fully taken into account when changing the location of the child. In addition, the right of appeal is not changed for either children or parents, as we are also satisfied with in the Left. We consider it further natural that, from the 12th year onwards, the child can give consent for changing the location, since the child already has the right of appeal. Changing the location is such a big change in a child's everyday life that it makes sense to hear a child from the age of 12. We expect that network care families and families who adopt a former foster child, as well as children themselves, will benefit from increased professional support for the family. We also expect that it will strengthen children's rights to ensure quality assurance of any decision to change the location. It will certainly also benefit the child that he now has the right to be heard at a lower age than before. The Left, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206100542	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206100549	Thank you. Now the Left spent a lot of time on one part of the bill, namely this about changing the basis for changes in the location. I very much agree with those comments, which is why I will not repeat them from up here, and spend a little time unfolding the second part, which is not a secret to my heart children, that of networking and family care. Unfortunately, it is not all children and young people who get the good and safe start to life as you would like, and there may be problems in the families and in the parents, which are so great that the children will have the best chance of growing up within some other framework than the ones they were born to. After all, the children placed are some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable people in Denmark, and that is why we as a society also have a special responsibility to take care of them and create the most secure possible framework that they did not have at home with their biological parents. One of the frameworks that society can help create for children is if you as a child are placed with some of your network, that is, some of your family's networks, some friends or acquaintances, or of course some family members who are able to care for them, some that the child already knows and which you may therefore feel more comfortable with than if they are wild strangers. There is a 2011 SFI study that shows that there are a lot of good things about network care families. For example: children placed with their network or family have more stable placement courses and experience fewer collapses, and you can see that for yourself. We are talking about children who have a relationship with the adults who care for them in advance. It can, for example, be done. be an aunt who says: Okay, my sister is not so good at this caring for the kids and there may be something with some abuse or something else. This means that we are talking here about someone who may have been in the maternity ward and who has seen the child for the first time a few hours after it has been born and who has followed the child's life closely since then. There will of course be a special connection, and therefore the SFI study also shows that there are more stable placement courses than where they are foster families. Then, of course, there are also some additional challenges for network care families, and that's some of what this bill is trying to help solve. To this extent, network care families today have the same right and duty to education and training and supervision of these things as other types of foster families. They must be on a course for 4 days and participate in continuing training for at least 2 days a year. But that is not always enough, and that is partly because the network care family often does not have the same educational background as other types of foster families. In addition, there may of course be an additional need to learn how to deal with conflicts that can arise precisely because you are network or family care. Well, just because it may be your sister's kids you've taken over, there may be. I think we all know that siblings are some of the ones with which to fight most, but I think that is particularly true if one has been able to take care of the children and the other has not. Of course, a particular type of conflict arises when it is within the family, or if it is a friend or friend who has taken over responsibility for your children, and so there may be some conflicts that you need special help and support to learn how to deal with. That is why we are turning up the rights of network care families, and we are doing so with an offer of ongoing support. It can, for example, be done. be advice or guidance in the form of interviews with professionals at the beginning of the placement process, but it may also be ongoing to prevent and manage conflicts with the biological family. Another point I would like to highlight in this draft law is that in future the ongoing support is also offered to families who are no longer foster families but who have chosen to adopt their children. Up to one in three foster families actually want to adopt their foster child; this has been demonstrated by the Ankestyrelsen's study, and as a society we have a huge interest in creating the security and security of the child's upbringing that just one adoption can give, because it is of course the most stable form of placement we can get into. However, the study by the Ankestyrelsen also showed that a great many of the families are afraid to implement the adoption because they will then lose the support of the municipality, and we will correct that now. For in the transition from foster home to adoptive family there will of course also be a need to deal with the changed role from foster family to adoptive family, and there may be a need to continue to get help in handling, for example. the child's relationship with the biological family or other issues that could come in the wake of having been a placed child. For us as Social Democrats, it is absolutely essential to fight for all people to get as good a start to life as possible and to have equal opportunities with everyone else. We are working to ensure that everyone is included, and we are working hard to break the negative social legacy, and this is one of the places where you have to get in and where you have to give the greatest possible support, because these are some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable children. I think we had a very good negotiating process in relation to the rate pool, and I would like to sign for that to both the Left and the Danish People's Party. I believe that the rapporteur and I of the Danish People's Party were very much on the same wavelength, that this is heartblood, that is one of the most important things, and that is why we had many very good talks during the negotiations. I think that is something to be said from the platform when such things happen. Because otherwise I think people have a feeling that it's always one big rivell. After all, it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206101111	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206101118	Thank you. The bill translates parts of the agreement to strengthen the foster family area, which is part of the 2015-2018 Rate Pool Agreement. In the Danish People's Party we have worked to put the site on the agenda. That is why we have also repeatedly pointed out the challenges in this area, both in consultation, in Question Time with the Minister and during the question debate on the reform of the child, to which the Danish People's Party had previously called. In addition, we have tabled resolutions in the past in the area where we wanted to make it compulsory to use the methods that work, including family advice, networking, etc., in other words to look at family resources and put together a plan. We would have increased the focus on the greater use of network families and the use of the network's resources. Finally, in the pool negotiations, we managed to find good solutions in this area, where the overall aim of the bill is to strengthen continuity in placements, among other things. by providing more support for children to be placed in families with which they already have a connection, including network care families, and by strengthening the decision-making basis in cases of relocation from one location to another. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of cases where children have been moved from their location against their will, so we are now reducing the minimum age for consent in decisions on changing the location from 15 to 12 years. It is proposed to strengthen the basis for the decision in cases of changing the location to take account of the child's relations with the location and also to require more when a child can be moved. In addition, network care families and families who adopt a child or a young person who has previously been placed in care in the family are entitled to more professional support than they currently have. The aim is to ensure that families receive the necessary advice and guidance based on the family and the current support needs of the child or young person. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we support the proposal which responds to some of the good suggestions for improvements made earlier by the Danish People's Party. And I would like to sign up to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, because it is true that this was a good course of negotiations and we were very much in agreement that we wanted to strengthen this area, and I am very pleased about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206101348	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any radical rapporteur, so we will see if the radical rapporteur shows up. Then we take Mrs Trine Mach as SF's rapporteur now. Would Mrs. Trine Mach rather wait too? Then we'll take sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206101432	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is always flexible and willing to work, so we are happy to fill out the breaks. On behalf of my colleague, Mrs Pernille Skipper, I shall give our views on this bill. The Enhedslisten welcomes the fact that children under the age of 15 with this proposal can also influence their own lives when it comes to moving the child to a new location. Being moved, perhaps away from school and friends, away from carers and the known, is a violent thing for a child. It is therefore positive that the proposal should focus more on continuity and that the child should be given the opportunity to be heard and given influence. In this respect, however, I would like to point out that it is important that it becomes real influence and not just a checkbox in a form. A study by the National Research Centre for Welfare confirms the suspicion we have all had for a long time: only 35%. of the children feel really heard. That's not good enough. We should look into how we can change the culture that allows children to speak but does not have any influence. We are also very positive about additional support for network care families. As the government itself points out, networking is often very good for the child because it maintains greater ties and contacts with its family. However, network care families may not always have so many resources, and they may need additional support beyond existing rights and obligations for continuing training in supervision. However, we need to point out from the Enhedslisten that the foster families as a whole do not have proper conditions. We are deeply concerned that there is not enough time for supervision and that continuing training is too poor. At the same time, we believe that, when it comes to pay and working conditions, this is a serious underpayment, for example. without the possibility of going on vacation with the placed child. Public opinion is extremely close to exploiting the good hearts of people, while at the same time risking that suitable foster families do not make themselves available because the economy is not linked. We must remember that it takes something to have a child resident who may have been abandoned, has parents with abuse or otherwise had it difficult. It's an educational-professional task. With regard to the competence to change the location, Enhedslisten also agrees with the proposal, however, with the same observations, such as: The Children's Council has come down. Children must be guaranteed access to justice, guidance and legal assistance, and complaints must have suspensory effect so that children do not have to be moved until a possible appeal has been settled definitively. Anything else will be extremely intrusive. Although it is necessary, it can be seen as a huge failure if you are to be moved involuntarily from a place where you have close adult contact, association with carers, etc. But the Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206101738	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then the radical rapporteur, Mrs Lotte Rod, has arrived. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206101746	My hope is that children's background must not determine their future. That's what drives me as a politician. We're not there yet. Although in many ways it is better in Denmark than in other countries, the future of some children still depends on their background. One of the places we haven't broken the code is for planted children. We know that continuity is crucial for children and young people's opportunities, for their personal development, their well-being and their ability to have an independent adult life. That is why we have an important political task in getting better at ensuring the continuity of those children who need it most. I believe that we need to be better at using the family and the network when parents cannot take care of their children themselves. Maybe there's an aunt or an uncle or another important person around the family who can take care of the child. Indeed, we know that there is less breakdown in networks and that networked children have better opportunities for development than children placed in traditional foster families. It's a big job. The aunt is probably not trained for the task in the same way as other foster families. Probably it is not quite easy to find out the new roles with the child's biological parents. That is why it is important that we support and support network care families. The same applies, moreover, to families who have adopted a child or a young person who has previously been placed in care in the family. We therefore propose the right to professional support for network care families beyond the present right and duty to continue training and supervision. The aid may, for example: be advice or guidance at the start of the placement or support to prevent and manage conflicts with the biological family. The support may consist of interviews with professionals in the field, courses or teaching to support the network care family in meeting the needs of the child or young person. Families who have adopted a child or a young person who has previously been placed in the foster family must also be entitled to professional support. The support must be targeted at the specific situation and needs of the individual family. It is my hope that with this proposal we will take an important step towards giving hope to some of our most vulnerable children for the future, and so I would like to thank you very much to the rest of the community for prioritising this effort with us. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206102027	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Mach as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206102033	The SF sees the bill as another important strengthening of children's rights and as additional support for vulnerable children placed in network care. Children's rights and support for children placed in care and for the families in which they are placed are also focus areas for the SF, and we are actually very pleased that we in the Danish Parliament are working for this, not on the basis of party political interests, but on the basis of a common interest to support and improve the conditions of some of these most vulnerable children and young people in our country. All my colleagues who have been on the platform in the past have said a number of key and wise things about the change in decision-making competence, increased support for network families, etc., and we are very much in line with that. So I would just like to make a brief comment on the issue of network care families. It is not without challenges to adopt a foster child or to be that family, which is why it is very important that we give more professional support and make it a right. It is for the child's sake, but it is also for the family itself. There is no need for more broken relationships between adults and children. I would like to add most of the comments on what is about changing the age of 15 to 12 in relation to the consent of the child. All children have the right to be heard and involved in decisions that concern themselves. It is in the UN Children's Convention, and it is also a fundamental value for the SF in our children's policy. Unfortunately, however, we hear a little too often and at the latest last week with the SFI report that too many children are experiencing too little hearing. And the study showed, among other things, that well every other child did not feel taken on board when making decisions about location. This is unacceptable and it is worrying. Therefore, it is very good that with this bill we guarantee more children the right to be heard when it comes to the relocation of the location. Reducing the age from 15 years to 12 years in the context of consent makes a great deal of sense. For it is a rather harsh life situation to be in as a small person, and then one should not experience being run over by others who make important decisions about one's life without being listened to by oneself. We believe in the SF, like the children's organisations, that the vast majority of 12-year-olds are mature enough to give consent if they are to move, not least if they are given the right professional support and the right means to make such a decision. And, of course, the municipalities must contribute to the children's welfare. I would like to stress the importance of involving all children in matters which concern themselves. It's scary when important decisions about your life are taken over your head. We should avoid this for all things in the world, and this is an important step on that road. We all know what it's like when control and control take place without one's own influence. It is not healthy for an adult, nor is it healthy for a child. In the SF we are not only concerned with the right of legal children to be heard, we are at least as concerned that it is actually being implemented. And that is why there is perhaps also reason why we should continue to have the antennas out, because one thing is to make a change in legislation, another is how it is implemented in practice. And we would strongly urge that we, together in the Danish Parliament, follow it closely, both that it actually happens, i.e. that the vault becomes like Mr. Finn Sørensen said crossed off, but also that in practice it means that the child actually has more influence in matters of its own life and in this case in placement cases. In conclusion, I would just like to agree with what my fellow Members have said and say that I am also very pleased that the wage-pool negotiations were as constructive and good as they were and that we have a broad agreement, of which this bill is, after all, an expiry date, and we certainly support the proposal by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206102401	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206102410	Thank you, sir. President. Bill L 120 deals with some of the citizens most in need of protection and care in this country, namely children placed outside the home. It is precisely these children who should be at the centre when we talk about how we can provide for those who cannot themselves. Children cannot themselves; they need someone to care for them, and not only do they need food and clothing, they also need love. That is why we in LA are very much in favour of the fact that when a child is abandoned by its biological parents, one starts by looking at the child's close relations to find out whether some responsible adults are ready to take over. Children need to be chosen and to be loved. They also need to know where they come from, what they're rounded off. Therefore, it is far preferable if you can find a housing family that is already part of the family or network around the child. Bringing in a child who has suffered serious failures is not an easy task. Therefore, it is also important that network families receive help in the first time to do the job. They must have advice on how they manage to create a calm and secure environment for the child without even going to. The bill also provides for a reduction of the age from 15 years to 12 years for consent in decisions on location. We support this too. It is so important to hear the child, even if it is a small child. And it is important that it actually happens out there and that it is not just something that we stand and approve here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206102550	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Per Løkken as Conservative rapporteur. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206102557	Thank you. The bill translates part of the pool agreement and aims to ensure more stable placements. Networking often produces good results because the child is placed in the family's immediate network. It may be with a sister or a brother-in-law to whom the child already has an attachment. Networking often shows fewer crashes, and this helps to create more stability in the placement. We are particularly sensitive to the fact that the draft law offers concrete opportunities to provide more professional support for networking. And it is a support that goes beyond the continuing training and supervision that families already receive. This is positive, for there is good reason to guide and help the family to manage conflicts and ensure calm in the child's life. The second part of the draft law is intended to strengthen the decision-making powers of the children and young people's committee in decisions affecting the stability of placement, namely decisions to change the location where the parental authority holder and the young person do not consent. The second part of the bill is to strengthen the decision in cases where the child has to change his place of placement. The need for support for the child or young person is best met by changing the location on the basis of a concrete balance between the continuity of the placement and the purpose of the placement. We think this is very positive, and we support it. The Conservative People's Party can, of course, support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206102742	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206102753	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your positive comments on the proposal, and I would also like, as others have done, to sign for a very good course when it comes to the rate pool. I thought it was amazing. I think that the fact that we have got this proposal knitted together also reflects the good course of the negotiations. You have all been talking about the content, and that makes sense, so I will not spend so much time on that. But I certainly took note of Mrs Tina Nedergaard, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil and Mrs Trine Mach talking about the whole idea of foster families. It was based on the study which has just been carried out and perhaps that is where I would like to go and, as such, very much welcomed the fact that we have found something after the child's reform, which is actually taking a positive path in this area; at least it is positive that children are also being heard. I really think we should welcome that. Then, of course, there are some thistles, and I think we should be pleased that we have found them so that we can, of course, work on them that way. Some of this is what the SF also mentioned, namely that there are children who are being heard, but that unfortunately there are also children who are not being heard. There, of course, it is also gratifying that we have found money for continuing training so that case workers can get better at it. Having said that, it is always good to have a proposal that also strengthens the basis for deciding when to move a child and, of course, what everyone has said about strengthening the whole care family area, including, of course, network care families. I think that is very positive. And, of course, I would be at the disposal of the habit if there were any questions in the course of further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206103010	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak on this matter, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206103032	The debate is open. Mrs Tina Nedergaard as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206103048	Thank you, President. This bill is about the most vulnerable and vulnerable children in our society. They are children of parents who are completely unable to care for only the most basic care for their children. It can, for example, be done. be a child of a chronic addict with e.g. a serious mental illness and resulting symptoms and consequences. So we are talking about some very, very vulnerable young children that we, as a society, have to do our utmost to deal with. With the adoption of the proposal, access to adoption without consent will be relaxed. The aim is to increase the possibility of forced adoption to ensure that just a little more children are given the opportunity to have a good and safe upbringing in some good parents. Thus, the adoption of the bill will no longer have to prove that parents are unable to meet the needs of the child. It must only be probable that parents will be permanently unable to care for the child, including the basics. The adoption of the bill will also mean for all forced adoption children, regardless of age, that association or other contact with the child's family, including parents, can be established if it is the best for the child. It will also be in cases where the child has actually not had contact in the past. Thus the intervention will also be a tiny bit smaller if you, for example, are able to do so. can maintain that grandmother or granddad can sometimes see the child. Further, access to adoption for foster parents is facilitated without consent when the child's attachment to foster parents is so strong that breaking contact will be deeply damaging to the child. Since the most recent relaxation in 2009, there have been only about two adoptions annually without consent. We estimate in the Left, like the government, that there is a need for a little more children to have that opportunity. It is a tiny group of children which would be the subject of forced abortion, but we in the Left believe that it is important that the possibility be real, even for the experts who have to make the decision without, as it is today, a relatively high risk of being overruled, as it must be demonstrated today and not only probable that parents have been permanently lost. The legal status of parents is, of course, very important, including for us in the Left. Obligatory adoption is a very intrusive decision on the fundamental rights that parents have to be parents, but for us, the consideration that children of parents with no parenting skills also have some fundamental rights for upbringing as close as possible to other children. When circumstances are as unhappy as they are in these families, we believe that they are best raised as closely as possible to the needs of other children when they are given away and do not find themselves in a situation in which, among other things, they are able to live. gets a very unstable upbringing by moving between institutions and foster families and insecurity about where they really belong. Once again, it is important for us to stress that this is a very small relaxation and that legal certainty for parents is maintained, among other things. with the right to have the case tried before the courts. This is absolutely crucial, and I have no doubt that it is also for the government and for the parties in the Folketing. Access to justice is essential. In addition, we are very pleased that the bill also guarantees free access for all municipalities to obtain free assistance from VISO in all cases of forced adoption. It is so intrusive that I would at least advise any municipality to obtain this very special expertise, which I also think we must recognise that the VISO has really been built up. We in the Left will closely monitor developments in this area, and I am convinced that all the parties involved and all those involved around the child agree that the intervention is so violent that it must, of course, be used with great care and great care. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206103543	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206103549	Thank you. This proposal is, of course, entirely in line with the latter, because it is also a question of children who are very, very vulnerable and that, as a society, we have a strong obligation to take care of those children where parents cannot do the job themselves. We have a shared responsibility to ensure that stability and continuity are created in the lives and upbringing of children. And I don't think I'm the only one who gets that when there's forced adoption on paper, you're starting to get a little scared. So, at least my thoughts flew to such totalitarian regimes, where Mom and Dad have not thought the right thoughts or things, or have made an upset with the one sitting at the table end of some system, and then the children are forced to be adopted. It makes everything turn in me and makes all the alarm bells jam. And I think that's pretty good enough. I think that these alarm bells are important to say when you look at this proposal and the way it has been screwed up, that if we talk about it being two children a year since 2009, when the legislation was last changed, it should of course be borne in mind that it is the two children whose parents have the least parenthood of all of them throughout the year. Well, you can just imagine those homes now I come from a spot in Denmark where I should greet and say that there were a number of parents whose parenthood one could discuss if one takes into account the extent of abuse and everything else. If we then take the two children who have grown up in homes where parenting was the worst, I am not at all sure that I dare be present in those homes. In any case, I am relatively convinced that there are some children in which it can be said in advance that this home is no good place to be. So that is where we are, so I think that when most of us think of forced adoption, we think of the normal normal framework within which we ourselves find ourselves and in which forced adoption would in every way be unreasonable and perhaps the most intrusive action the state could ever take against a family. But we are talking about children, which I think most of us can see must have a different framework from those which they have got from their biological parents. With regard to the technical aspects, I would say that this is a tiny change. It is simply a matter of proof of the word. The text states that it is necessary to prove that parents can never regain their parenthood, and this can be difficult to document. There may be science being developed, there may be technology being developed, which makes some diseases, some short-circuits in the brain, etc. changes over time, so how can you prove that people can't change? It can be extremely difficult. And that means that what we're talking about is changing it from the fact that it's called proof to the possibility of making it probable. Because if you're going to make this possible, it means that through heavy and thorough investigations you can make it possible that this human being will not be able to take care of his child at any time. And then there is no need to take into account the fact that all kinds of changes can be made, that new medicines can be developed, which makes a mental illness, for example. is no longer a problem, etc. etc. So it can be said with regard to what we are doing with the 2009 legislation that the intention is the same, but we need to change that word because, in relation to the case officers who have stood and had to assess whether it was in a given situation the child's best interest to be adopted away, the legislation has simply been an obstacle because they have not been able to prove that it would never be possible for that person to regain parenthood. So we are opening up to that now, and that does not mean that it will be particularly many more children. These are individual cases we are talking about where parental capacity is so poor that you choose to go in and forcibly adopt. And that is the way it should be; not many people should be forcibly adopted in our society. Social democracy can, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206103950	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206103958	With this bill, the government wants to relax the rules on adoption without consent, as they think there have been too few forced abortions since the law was relaxed in 2009. Since the change, however, only a few forced abortions have been carried out without consent. In the Danish People's Party we are concerned about this. We are concerned that there will be abuse of children and families. Forced adoptions are very far-reaching and therefore the principles of legal certainty must be respected. And the Danish People's Party considers that they will not be sufficiently respected if a change from compensation to probability is accepted. When is something probable? To the Minister: Will the parents get appointed a lawyer, and will the child be heard and possibly also get appointed a lawyer? Under the adoption law in force, a child may be dismissed without the consent of the parents if it is established that the parents are permanently incapable of caring for the child. A distinction shall be made between children under one year of age and children who have been placed for more than three years. In the case of young children, adoption is subject to the condition that parents will not be able to play a positive role for the child in connection with association. The Minister will explain whether the parents' ability to care for the child involves special studies carried out by independent professionals such as: psychiatrists, psychologists or other relevant specialists in order to clarify the parents' situation. In the Danish People's Party, we are concerned about the loss of kinship and the absoluteity of a complete genealogy that adoption without consent will cause for the child. The bill describes the possibility of association with biological genus in special cases. Please describe when there are special cases and why it is only in special cases that association can be established. What matters must be what's for the child's good. And what if the child has siblings? Can they then visit their little brother or sister at a forced abortion? There are today detailed requirements in the Services Act for consultation of younger children in a child's case. Against this background, we find it strange that the draft law does not provide for any specific influence on children and young people who are the subject of very far-reaching decisions on adoption without consent. Will the Minister explain whether you are investigating whether there is anyone in the child's network and family who could take care of the child's interests before forced adoption of a child? The Minister is also asked to explain how many children can be covered by the rules and which children are concerned. And then I would also like the Minister to comment on DH's hearing response, which describes DH's concern that a relaxation of the rules on adoption without consent can be misused to deprive parents with disabilities of the right to be parents and to have a family life. Similarly, adoption without consent will in many cases be a cheaper solution than support for parents or placement in a foster family. DH also stresses that adoption without consent must never take place in an economic indication. We know that in many children's cases mistakes have been made, and the Ankestyrelsen's investigations have shown this. We know that children's interviews in placement cases are not always held, and we also know that several experts have dumped the psychologists' family studies and that the reports have seemed untrustworthy and unprofessional and critical and illegal. Our concern is that children may be forcibly abandoned on the wrong basis. Of course, as a society, we must always do our best to shield children from abuse, neglect and other things. And it is not for us in the Danish People's Party whether you are for or against placements, but it is about the right children being placed on the right basis. And that is why we are concerned about this bill and we will be asking a number of questions in committee in order to clarify matters even better in the context of the legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104441	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104447	Children and young people must have the best possible conditions for their upbringing and development. Fortunately, most children have this with their mother and father or one of them, but you do not choose your own parents, and some children are unfortunately born into families where parents cannot take care of them. With this bill, we want to give a small group of children the chance to actually become full members of a new family. Foreign studies indicate that adopted children and young people are doing better than children and young people. Adopted children and young people have better physical development and do better in school than placed children and young people. At the same time, their behavioral and mental problems are less. However, as the Left and the Socialists have also mentioned, adopting if parents are against the resolution is a huge step forward. I also feel that all children deserve love and care when they grow up, and therefore it makes sense in very special cases that the child or young child is adopted by people who are actually able to provide it with security, care and love. The Folketing changed the rules for adoption without consent in 2009 because until then only about one adoption had been carried out without consent per year. The aim in 2009 was to make it possible for a little more children, yet we can see that this figure has only increased to an average of two adoptions per year. That is why we are now proposing to look again at the rules so that we achieve what was actually the intention back in 2009. In fact, it has emerged from an examination of the cases that there have been various obstacles to it. On the one hand, it has been very difficult to prove that parents have been completely without parenthood, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned. On the one hand, there's been a lot of uncertainty associated with this distinction we had made between whether the child was under or over one year olds. That's why we're going in and changing it now. At the same time, I also think it is appropriate to use Parliament's platform to emphasise that this law must not be used to take children from disabled parents who may well be good parents if they receive help. The fact that a parent has reduced physical function and needs e.g. practical help is not in itself an expression of the parent's lack of parenthood. Parents must receive in concrete and timely terms the support and compensation that their disability causes, because this is about people, it is about children, their childhood and their future. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104752	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104757	I do not know whether Mrs Lotte Rod has followed the debate on this bill at Everything. There Rasmus Kjeldahl says and I quote: "At Children's Conditions we have been contacted by a foster family. The family had been asked the following ultimatum by the municipality: Either you adopt the child or we move the child away from you. The motif on the part of the municipality alone is to save the cost of the foster family, as the adoption is cheaper because the municipality saves remuneration and professional supervision for the foster family. I would like to hear how the Radical Left will avoid the situations described by the Children's Conditions in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104841	This is, of course, closely linked to the proposal that we also had in the Chamber a few moments ago, namely that of course you need the help that you need, and that is whether you are in care or are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104857	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104859	I do not really think the rapporteur gave a direct answer to that. But let me ask another question: is there no concern whatsoever about this on the part of the Radical Left? When we see section 50 studies that are filled with errors and shortcomings; when we see psychologist reports that have not been properly prepared; when we see all the errors in these cases, as the Ankestyrelsen has also described, is the rapporteur not concerned that there may be forced adoptions that should not happen? In other words, we called earlier for consultation. It was under the then minister, Annette Vilhelmsen, who actually said at the time of the consultation that some of the children had been placed who should not have been placed. Is the rapporteur not at all concerned about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206104950	In fact, I am not, and I am not on the grounds that before 2009 we talked about one case a year, and since 2009 there have been two cases a year. After all, we have all made an effort here on the part of the Danish Parliament to stress that this is a huge step, and that is why I think we should only be worried if it exploded wildly. But what we are talking about here is, in fact, to take seriously the concerns of the municipalities; they have been out saying that the way in which it was put together in order to prove it simply made it impossible to help the children who needed it. That is why this is a question of opening up a little bit to it, but that it is still a very, very limited number we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206105041	Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206105044	Now I am here with the article from Altinget with Rasmus Kjeldahl's statements. I think that when we discuss something as serious as this, maybe it's okay for us to get some things straight. So I would like to ask the Radical Left rapporteur to confirm that it is the case that when Rasmus Kjeldahl speaks, it is about adoptions with them, but here we are talking about adoptions with what the draft law is about today, he is also talking about in the same article, but these are adoptions without consent. It's adoptions without so he speaks about two different things within the adoption law, and what we are talking about here is adoptions without consent, where, in my opinion, the municipality is acting totally unfairly there with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and Rasmus Kjeldahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206105201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206105202	I can confirm that. I also think it is appropriate to say that when the Danish People's Party expresses this concern, it is of course absolutely essential for us to stress what kind of quantity we are talking about and that it is therefore a question of two children a year so far and that the municipalities have pointed out to us that there are actually a little more children we should be helping and that it is therefore so crucial that we change the rules so that we actually help the children who need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206105235	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, that's all? Then it is Mrs Trine Mach as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206105247	The SF supports the intention behind the bill to create more stability and continuity in the lives and upbringing of children placed in care. All children have the right to a good child life, and as a society we have an important task in creating as good conditions as possible for children to actually have it. Children brought in are a very special and exposed group of children, whom we as a society are committed to ensuring as good an upbringing as possible, and we know that many children placed in care have more difficulty than other children on a wide range of parameters: well-being, education, etc. Several of my colleagues have mentioned this, and the recent SFI study on the well-being of children placed in care has also shown us all last week. Adoptions and placements are very good opportunities, which can give children whose future can otherwise look deeply unhappy and hopeless, a good upbringing. The right adoption can give a child a whole new life with the care, security, stability and development that we all want, not just for our own children, but for all children in our society. Having said that, compulsory adoption is one of the most intrusive measures that can be taken as an authority. By giving children up for adoption without their parents' consent, we are in the process of touching some of the most fundamental rights, both for the child and for the parents. It is therefore absolutely crucial for SF that forced adoptions are carried out on a well-substantiated and professionally strong basis. I have a little desire to say that it has to be proper and firm, and that it must be, above all, flawless. This is not a measure where there is room for error. Therefore, I would like to highlight some points that the SF considers to be crucial that we deal with in the further legislative work. A few of my fellow Members have mentioned this, and I would also like to make it quite clear that the SF is of the opinion that this draft law must not be an austerity exercise. There must be no economic justification for choosing this measure as a municipality. Nor do I believe that this is the background for the municipalities or the KL to have wanted to have been relaxed in the legislation. But it is important to say that neither today nor in five years' time, nor in ten years' time, can the relaxation legitimise austerity exercises in the municipalities in this area. I would like a guarantee, even if it is difficult in politics, or at least good proof that this will not be the case. All placement measures shall be for the benefit of the child, including the intrusive forced adoptions. That is why I perhaps miss a slightly more precise description of the specific problem that the draft law is expected to solve. As I understand it, municipalities are faced with barriers to forced adoptions, and municipalities do not believe that since the 2009 amendment there have been sufficient forced adoptions. According to the comments to the law, the municipalities want what is referred to as a paradigm change and a change of attitude. I would like us to clarify a little more how many compulsory adoptions the municipalities and the minister think are needed, and I do not think that is polemical. I would actually like to ask the Minister, in all remembrance, to give some thought to what it is for children, the municipalities and the minister expect the proposed relaxations to help and what the paradigm shift is. I know it is a comment on the law, but it is a very central word for me to see. What does this paradigm change mean? So another challenge: The many practical studies carried out by the Ankestyrelsen have repeatedly shown that the municipalities are making mistakes. So do all people, so do the municipalities. A study that followed up on the child's reform showed that the municipalities in 70%. of the cases investigated did not hold the children's conversations to which they are obliged. Another study showed that there were errors in the procedure in two out of three of the cases examined. It is neither to make a criticism of or a discussion about the municipalities and their practices and mistakes; it is just to point out that the municipalities, like all sorts of others, are making mistakes. And in SF, we're worried about whether the municipalities can do this job, which is so difficult to promise: When is it that you can prove or make it probable that a parent can't take care of his child? And even if any relaxations will result in more forced adoptions, the number will, of course, remain small in relation to providing the municipalities with sufficient expertise in this area. We are simply not sure that the municipalities will make enough goose-eye adoptions to be able to have the specialist knowledge it requires and which must be necessary to take such an intrusive and complex measure. It must be obtained and secured in other ways and it was also one of the points raised by the rapporteur from the Left. Can we somehow think of another way of organizing it? I would therefore like to call on the Minister to try to see whether it makes sense to place the competence to take decisions on compulsory adoptions under another authority. I do not have a clear answer to the problem, but I really believe that it is our duty as legislators to deal with it. Finally, I would like to say that compulsory adoption must not replace other social measures; it must not patch up any gaps that have arisen from a lack of early and preventive action. It must never be a patch-up for children or families who, for one reason or another, have not received the social benefits that they should have had. We must make early and preventive efforts, and we must do all we can to detect problems so early that we can intervene with the right social efforts before it is too late. With Thomas Adelskov's words, it is in fact the most important task to avoid the forced removal or adoption of children. This does not mean that you can avoid it, but it must be what is in our focus. So let me finish by saying it. We would like to appeal to us to join forces to stick to the fact that this is where the focus should be. This does not mean that we are not going to discuss this here, but we need some clarification on the last thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206105818	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206105828	Thank you. On behalf of my colleague, Mrs Pernille Skipper, I should like to present our views on the bill. Losing the right to your parents is a violent act. Obligatory adoption of a child is violent because the child loses the right to its biological parents and its biological source. I must honestly admit that we are very concerned about the Enhedslisten of this bill. We can, of course, read that children's organisations in particular support the proposal, and that also weighs heavily on us, but we are also concerned that it is a question of or may become a saving exercise. Despite the proposal to grant support to adoptive families who have had an adopted child placed before adoption, it is much cheaper to have forced adoption than to place, and it is not the solution to large municipal costs to remove children forever if it is not absolutely necessary. With the existing rules, children cannot be forcibly kidnapped if we do not know for sure that parents will not be able to take care of them later. The proposal now merely has to make it probable and then comes the dangers. Is it likely that this person will get rid of his alcohol abuse? Is it likely that this mother's disability will not also later prevent her from taking care of the child, and what if she got more support than she gets? Would she be able to care? Adoptions cannot be reversed, which is why we need to be very careful. Several consultation parties have also pointed out that the parental performance assessment should be upgraded in relation to today. They are concerned that the basis for the decision will be inadequate. When we read the explanatory statement from the government, we will not be reassured. It is believed that the average of two forced adoptions per year is too little, but we do not know why it is too little or what the government thinks is an appropriate level. You cannot just give a child a new family and thereby wipe the past, history and originator away, even if it is a very small child. Therefore, you cannot just say that a new family, where mother does not have a disability or father does not have an abuse, will always be the best for a child. It's enticing, but you can't. That is why we are very concerned and we need answers to a whole range of questions before we can take a position on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206110102	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206110113	Children need parents who love them and want them. It is dangerous for children to grow up without love and care. Therefore, it is also the task of society to take action if a child grows up without being met with the care that the child needs. If there are serious failures, and if there is no prospect that things can be right, it is important to create a lasting framework around the child so that the child knows how his life will be shaped and thus the child will be able to commit to these new relationships. We all need to belong and be loved. It is not enough for children to be cared for and cared for. Therefore, there may also be situations where parents' abilities as parents are so poor that an adoption can be considered, even if parents have not given their consent. These are very, very few cases, and I would like to stress that it is important that no roads have been untested in terms of involving parents before such a violent decision is taken. But in the very, very few cases where we are faced with a failed child with poor living conditions, it must be the child we focus on, rather than the child's parents, who are in a miserable situation in every way. International research shows that children who are adopted grow up with remarkably good life opportunities and conditions compared to children who have grown up in care or in institutions. Being elected is crucial for us, to belong, to be loved. Nothing can beat the care and love given by adults who have chosen a child for life. LA supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206110254	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Løkken as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206110301	On 1 October 2009, the rules on compulsory adoption were extended. In practice, it has proved difficult for municipalities to apply the new rules. A study has shown that the municipalities find the rules difficult to use practice because the municipalities should be able to demonstrate that parents would never be able to take care of their children. Therefore, the conditions now change from proof to the likelihood that the parents are unable to care for the child permanently. It will thus be easier to make compulsory adoptions and it must be assumed that there will be more forced adoptions in the municipalities with this law. In addition, the rules are relaxed so that a distinction is no longer made between compulsory adoption for children under one year of age and children who have been placed for at least three years. The relief will also mean that more forced adoptions are to be expected. The 2009 Act showed that there was only a very low number of forced adoptions and it is assessed professionally by the Ministry of Social Affairs that there is a need to implement more forced adoptions as an alternative to the long-term placements. Conservatives support the bill, but at the same time we also want to make it clear that this is an area in which we will be following developments, so that the number of forced adoptions does not suddenly explode. The most important thing for us is to ensure the best possible upbringing for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206110439	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206110449	Thank you. I would like to thank you for this discussion, as for the previous one, and of course I would also like to make myself available as usual when we have a legislative proposal. But I will actually start with that, because both DF and Enhedslisten and, indeed, everyone has said that it is really difficult on the one hand, but that questions have to be asked on the other, because we have to close all flanks if there is to be anything. And I would also urge you to do so. Mrs Karina Adsbøl came up with a cascade of questions, and again: let us get them in writing so that we can turn all these things around, because these are very relevant issues. Now there was the thing about the lawyers. In other words, of course children are heard and parents are also offered legal advice, but we have to dig up everything Finn Sørensen also mentioned because, and perhaps this is also what this is an expression of, it gives rise to debate, and it does everything else just because it is intrusive. It's the most intrusive thing. I think we are all reacting, as Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil also said, intuitively. It's against everything in some way. However, as everyone also says, there is another side to it and, of course, these are the children we are talking about. It's a few children, but whether it's a few children or it's a little more, it's an intervention in that person's life, and of course we have to do that with the utmost care, as we usually do in these cases. It's the worst-off parents we're talking about here. And it takes a lot of really, really much. This, of course, is not the case and it is actually for Mrs Trine Mach who asked me in all kindness, and I also reply in all kindness, because we know each other, and therefore we can do it • some financial saving exercise. We're talking about so few kids. I know a lot of case officers, but I don't know the case officer in this kingdom who would go into such a violent measure because of a saving exercise. I also think somewhere else that the caring that is out there, the distance that may have been, perhaps also the fear of going into it, shows that one is very, very careful when it comes to this. Mrs Trine Mach is also saying that it is a paradigm shift, or that it is at least what you want. I do not necessarily agree with that. I much more agree that we are continuing the course that has been set, namely that we should actually avoid removing children, as Thomas Adelskov himself says, with the violence that can be about it and the intervention that it is. But if someone has to be removed, then of course there must be those opportunities. And it's not a savings exercise with so few kids. Then I was also asked how many children have to be removed. I cannot answer that in any way whatsoever. I do not have any professional evidence to answer that, but what I can say is that there are children in situations where parents simply cannot take care of the children's interests at all and have no parenting capacity, etc., then that is an option and, of course, that option needs to be used. Then there's a part of you who's talking about it with municipalities that make mistakes. I am very aware of that myself. I was internship in Horsens Municipality on Monday, and we talked about it as well. It was very enriching, enriching understood in the way that many of the mistakes that are being made can be well explained. It is not because we have to accept mistakes, but the reason why I take it up is that I really want to put it on the agenda at a meeting we need to have, and I want to do it too, so that we can unfold it somehow. Because you can easily live up to a lot of things, and because of some circumstances where you may not have done one thing and the other, it actually counts as mistakes. This means that we may have to go in and look at the system, whether it is as it should be. Because when we sit and look at it, we react, and we have to do so if we see such violent mistakes and figures going in the wrong direction. Having said that, I would like to say again, as I started with, that I am so looking forward to the further reading and all the issues that I really would urge you to send, so that we can conclude this as a really solid legislative proposal, where we stand on a massive and healthy foundation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111013	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111017	I put a question to the Minister. The draft law states that in specific cases contact with biological genus can be established and the Minister will explain what special cases are. I can see that the Children's Council's hearing shows that they also want children to be able to request association with biological family, of course. So why is it only in special cases, and what does the biological lineage cover? Are those grandparents, too, Mom and Dad, siblings? After all, we want to ensure that children have some close relations with their networks and their origins, and if that is what the children want, will the Minister give a guarantee that the children's wishes will be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111109	It is a strange thing to be asked to give a guarantee of something that is so difficult to deal with, because it depends on the individual case. When specific cases are discussed, it may be because the cases are so different. There may be situations where even contact with the network can be difficult, not very appropriate or fruitful for the child, and therefore there must be this flexibility. Because it's about people. It is not an electoral slogan that I am expressing, but it is about people and people are different, and so are these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111154	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111156	I do not think it can be said that the question of guarantees is strange. The minister can just answer. Of course we must ensure that children are heard, of course we must ensure that if a child who is forcibly adopted has a desire to see his biological lineage, then it must of course happen. That's very easy to answer. It may be that a mother or a father has had some challenges and problems in life, but there may still be a different network where there may be some really good resources. I think the Minister should say that, of course, the network must be unveiled, but we do not know that. We know that the resources of the network are not being looked at today. That is precisely why, in the pool of rates, we have made efforts in relation to increased focus on the use of network placements. So the Minister can just say whether the children's wishes will be fulfilled if they want to see their biological lineage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111251	After all, in a previous draft law, we have also strengthened the network. And so it is. Now I also mentioned that, of course, children must be heard... and they also have the opportunity to get legal advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111309	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150206111326	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 17 February 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
