ParlaMint-DK_20150310130022	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130036	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130040	Thank you. It is progressing for the Danish economy, it confirms the latest growth figures from Danmarks Statistik. We have now had growth for six consecutive quarters, and it looks more and more like a steady increase. More people have entered work; employment has increased by over 32,000 people since spring 2013. Fewer are without work; unemployment is now lower than for more than 5 years. And it is not only growth and employment that are progressing. The housing market is also improving, prices are rising again, so are investment, and so are exports. Companies have been given more work to do. Developments in the world mean something to us, of course, that will always be the case for Denmark. It helps growth along the way, that the higher dollar rate makes it easier for Danish companies to sell their goods, and the lower oil price means that Danish families need to spend less money on heat and gasoline, which they thus have for other consumption. The uncertainty about the economy has diminished, but of course it has not disappeared. The recovery in the euro area has, as we know, been disappointing several times. But even if developments in the world are important, it is the government's job to ensure that the Danish economy is in control, and we solve that task. We are pursuing a responsible economic policy. The growth we urgently need in Denmark must be based on a solid foundation; growth must be sustainable. Denmark is one of the few countries in the world that has an AAA rating, and that is important. Foreign confidence in Denmark helps to ensure low interest rates, and it also helps investment and recovery. At the same time, our reforms strengthen the basis for growth to increase in the coming years and for a new sustainable recovery in the Danish economy. We have improved the competitiveness of companies, as we have done with the major growth plans from 2013 and from 2014. These are plans that have meant better conditions for creating jobs in Denmark, and we will be putting forward new growth proposals in the spring. In short, the signs of progress in the Danish economy have become clearer; we are well on our way to putting the economic crisis behind us. But it is still important that we support progress. Public investment is historically high; we are simply doing as much as we can within a responsible framework. In the '00s we know that budget overruns were the rule rather than the exception; the VK government let the good times run out. Now we have a budget law that ensures that the budgets last. It's not time for experiments. Therefore, we should not have zero growth either. We should not spend every penny on tax cuts; on the contrary, we should be careful and develop our welfare. It is progressing in Denmark. Now we have to hold on. We must take care of the results we have achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130416	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round, the questioner and the Prime Minister both have two minutes' speaking time, and then there are two rounds where each has one minute. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130435	Thank you. And thank you for the optimistic statement by the Prime Minister, in which it was finally stated that tax relief could at least not be considered. Perhaps it could then be used as a starting point to discuss with the Prime Minister one of several topics that have been much in focus in the week that has gone by, namely the question of whether it is worth working in this country to a sufficient extent. In the Left, we certainly do not exclude forward-looking tax concessions; on the contrary, we believe that there is a strong need for people with small labour incomes to receive tax relief. And that is related to the fact that we think it should pay better to work. There are a number of reasons for this. One is the obvious one, and I feel sure that we agree that it has an independent value for the individual to work and be part of an active community, to feel appreciated, to have colleagues. The second part is that it is good for the Treasury if some more work. And we have the obvious problem in Denmark that we have up to 800,000 working age, parked on the edge of the labour market and on public support. And that really leads to the third, namely that if there is a recovery to be made, we must also be able to do so. And it certainly requires that, as I see the world, we get more of the people on the edge of the labour market into the labour market. Then we are at the discussion which, among other things, is taking place. My own party has raised about how the balance is between public support and then wage work, if the work you can get is for a relatively low, but of course collective pay. And I just want to ask the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister thinks that we have the right balance now. With the cut, the level of transfer income, taxes etc. Does the Prime Minister think that in this country anno 2015 it is sufficiently worthwhile to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130647	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130648	Thank you very much. Yes, it is also a discussion that concerns us and has done it all the way through. Because, of course, it has to be the case that working pays off. And just to make sure that I am understood correctly, I would say that I have not ruled out tax relief; I have just said that we do not need every free penny for tax relief, because we need to find a balance in which we also develop our welfare. And that is why we do not believe that zero growth is the way forward, but rather that we should develop our welfare. But that does not mean that we have forever ruled out tax relief. After all, we have also provided tax incentives in the time we have had the opportunity to do so. There must, of course, be an economic advantage in working. And that is also what we were going for when we made a tax reform. We did a tax reform in 2012 together with the Left. It has not yet been fully phased in, but there we were determined to make it better worthwhile to work. And, of course, we managed to get on with some of the challenges that were. So in relation to all the challenges we took over from the previous government, for example. That there is a group for which it is not at all worthwhile to work, we have done something; we have tried to reduce the size of that group so that it is now worth working for a larger group. What we did in concrete terms, and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was also very good that we increased the employment allowance, and especially for single parents, we increased the employment allowance. It must be borne in mind that we are still in the process of phasing in the tax reform, and once we have done so it will increase the benefit of working with up to DKK 3 000. for ordinary Danes, and up to 2022, when everything is then phased in, there will be further on top of that. So this is certainly an issue that the government has taken seriously, and we have also done something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130835	Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130836	But I am certainly also very pleased that we have made a tax agreement, in many ways a very excellent tax agreement, like many of the other things we have done with the government, has been excellent, although for some it has contrasted with the previous positions of the government before the government became a government, i.e. a reduction in corporation tax and so on. When we made the employment allowance at the time, the Social Democratic Party was against it, but it has been a pleasure that we have been able to expand it. That is why we are a little in a situation now that it is worthwhile to work to some extent. I have also noted that during the week the Prime Minister's party colleagues have made themselves rather merry when we have focused on the problem that there is something similar to 1,000 DKK. in winnings. And I'd really like to try to get a little closer to how the Prime Minister estimates this, because 1,000 kroner. In terms of earnings, and this is a gain that doesn't grow at all unless you get a very, very large amount of income, that is to say, the difference in being on cash benefits and then taking a job in a low pay area is 6 DKK. It's an hour. I just want to ask the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister estimates that 6 kroner. an hour is a sufficient gain.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130950	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310130951	It is true that there have been some violent contrasts. The biggest contrast has probably been that every time they had the opportunity to go in and discuss taxes, the Left has not concentrated on those who have the lowest wages. After all, when the Left was at the top of the table as Prime Minister's Party in 2009, a tax reform was made which gave the greatest tax relief to the very richest. At that time, less attention was paid to those who had the lowest incomes. And when the Left trotted up for tax negotiations with us in 2012, the Left was in no way busy looking at the employment allowance. No, again they suggested reliefs in the top tax. So it is true that there are great contrasts. They are with the Left because every time we have had the opportunity to change taxes, we have concentrated on the largest incomes and not the lowest incomes. Fortunately, it was we who sat in government at the time, and we proposed increasing the employment allowance, including for single parents. And that is why it is now there; it is not because the Left demanded it in any way. Then I have noticed that the Left has entered into this debate on whether it is worthwhile to be on the labour market when you are on cash benefits. I am delighted that the Left realises when they have said wrong figures. For a long time, after all, the Left traveled around making 35,000 kroner to make it worthwhile to work. That wasn't true. It was not true that couples, where both were on cash benefits, had to earn DKK 35,000 in order for it to pay off to be on the labour market. The right number was $16,200, but a very big difference. But I am delighted if the Left is again having a somewhat relaxed relationship with some of these figures, to eat one of its own numbers and to acknowledge that the 35,000 were not at all 35,000. On the contrary, it was 16,200.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131141	Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131143	Now these numbers were right when we used them. Yes, they were. It is true, as the Prime Minister says, that thanks to the agreements we have made together, we have improved the situation slightly, so there is a gain of DKK 1,000 if you get a job with a salary of DKK 16,000-17,000. The 1,000 kroner. will continue to be there, by the way. Whether you make $17,000, $18,000, $19,000, $20,000, $21,000, $22,000, $23,000. And up there, the prize stays the same. Do you have to get up and get a win on e.g. 1,500 kr., you must earn an amount in the order of 35,000-36,000 kr. What I was just asking was that now the Prime Minister is expressing this pleasure that there is a prize of DKK 1,000. So that's equal to $6. It's an hour. That's why I'm just asking again: does the Prime Minister think that a prize of DKK 6. in the hour by getting into employment rather than being on cash benefits is a sufficient gain?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131245	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131246	Now, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and I have several times taken a debate on what is a lot of money in a family where the economy may be a little tight. And we have at least made it clear that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen doesn't think it's a win if you make 2,000 kroner. more a month. Then it's not a win. Now I understand that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen also doesn't think that a prize of 1,000 DKK. more a month in a family that has otherwise been on cash benefits is worth talking about. I'm not going to judge what's big or small, but what we've been talking about is whether it's worth working. The answer is yes. You have to make a little over 16,000 kroner. It would suit the Left if one said that one was wrong, that the amount of DKK 35,000. is wrong and that it is the 16,200 kr. that is the right number. That would be very good, and then one could hope in the future that the Left has a slightly less relaxed relationship with how to use the figures. We need that. In addition to that, I think it is essential to discuss this which the Left travels. I'm very surprised, too. All of this reflects the fact that we have no explanation from the Left about what they really want, so now the Left says that it is also a problem that you do not get an increase in income by earning DKK 17,000, DKr 18,000, DKr 20,000 respectively, as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said. Does this mean that the Left is now opposed to spouse dependency in the cash benefits system, because that is basically what makes you have to earn much more to gain a profit? Therefore, I would also like to know whether the Left is against spouse dependency in the cash aid system, because then we are talking in quite a different way than we have done so far, but I understand that the Left really thinks that it is okay for one to support one another in marriage. I would like the Left's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131444	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131445	Thank you. Now the PM says she won't judge it. I can't really understand that, because the Prime Minister is in charge of this country. And I understand it's not a legal discipline... it's a political discipline... but it's based on the fact that you sort of get your position ready. I am now asking the Prime Minister, and it will be from the third time: Does the Prime Minister think that a prize of DKK 6. in the hour by moving from cash to work is a sufficient gain? The Prime Minister will not even answer that question, so I am going to ask the question again. And, of course, I do, because we have to note that, despite the fact that we have done the things with the government that have made a small profit now, there are some stated issues. The government has demolished the ceiling on cash benefits, which means that we have seen a quite marked increase in the number of families on cash benefits. They have doubled their available amount. A refugee family on cash benefits today receives 10,000 kroner. more a month than when I was prime minister. This is a significant increase in revenue, thanks to government policy. This is an example of the fact that the government has fulfilled its promises. And one might ask whether the Prime Minister can think of other families who have had a similar increase in income under this government. That is where we see there is a problem: to reach a family with, for example. three children can receive a total of DKK 454,215, the prize of moving is not very great. I ask quite calmly and the Prime Minister must think what she would think, but it would just be nice to hear what she thinks about the Prime Minister who thinks there is a problem here. Is the amount of DKK 454,215? A problem? Is it like it has to be, or should it be higher or less? Is 6 kroner. an hour a sufficient gain to get up in the morning, transport yourself to work, deliver children in day care, be at work all day, go back home and wash clothes and clean?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131657	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131700	What would be really nice for the political debate in Denmark was if the Left would present their policy on taxation, their modern cash aid ceiling. What is the policy of the Left? We have no idea what the policy of the Left is. We have been told that there must be a modern cash aid ceiling. What does that mean? Everyone would be happy, I think, if we could discuss it properly. Left claims a whole lot of things about what they're gonna do themselves. But we basically have no idea, because the Left will not present its policy, and that is a problem for the debate in Denmark right now. In the government we have our policy; we have presented our policy. We have carried out things that ensure that working pays off. Then you can always argue about 1,000 kroner. is very, about 2,000 kroner. is a lot, but what the Left claims in the big campaign is that it is not worthwhile to work. And it actually pays to work financially. So the Left is wrong about a large-scale advertising campaign, which is clearly wrong. They say that it is not worthwhile to work, but it is misleading, because it pays to work when you get 1,000 kroner. more a month by doing so. I also think that what is weird in this matter is that the Left is making this a very big problem. But can't the Left confirm today that it's less than 1,000 families that fit the calculation example that the Left has made a large-scale campaign over less than 1,000 families? And that is what the Left wants us to discuss. Why is it that the Left is not just presenting its policy? Then we could count on it, then we could look at it, and not least: then we could debate it with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131846	Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310131847	I can confirm that the number of married couples with cash benefits has increased by 40%. under this government and that the number of cash benefits recipients has generally increased by 20%.; this has happened at the same time as we have had a large increase in Eastern European labour force in Denmark, no evil said about them, but a testimony that there are jobs being filled. I can confirm that. I can confirm that a refugee family on cash benefits has had a total income increase of DKK 10,000. a month under this government, and that a family with children has doubled their availability. I can confirm that. And then I understand that the government's policy is the one that has been implemented and that what we are going to have to vote on is what has been done, versus what has to be done. We think we should do something more than what we have done. We think that 6 kroner. I am surprised that I cannot get the Prime Minister to deal with it at all. That's why I'm just asking, yes, maybe for the second time it'll be for the last time if I get an answer: is the Prime Minister satisfied that people who move from cash benefits and take a striking job to a relatively low salary, but yet the collective cover has a prize of 6 DKK. In class? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132011	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132013	Why is it that the Left doesn't just say that we're talking about 1,000 families? It's 1,000 families that have exactly this income situation that the Left has described in large-scale campaigns. And why is it that the Left would not just quietly admit that it was wrong to say that working was not worthwhile? Because it pays to work. We have just done something about it so that working pays off. That is why we have implemented a tax reform; that is why we have carried out a different set-off in relation to cash benefits if you get a job. After all, we have just ensured that it is more worthwhile today to work than at the time, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister. So this is a matter of concern to us. And unlike Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has had the opportunity to do something about it for the past 31⁄2 years, and unlike Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, we have had plans, implemented them, but what we cannot get from Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is an ordinary policy. Put the policy forward, Left! It would look good on you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132111	Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132112	I do not think anyone is in any doubt about our policy, which is quite clear to say that a ceiling must be placed on cash aid. Now, if we take the example of the refugee families, who have had an income increase of DKK 10,000. • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 kroner a month • 10,000 I do not know whether the Prime Minister can think of other family types that have had a rise in income of this magnitude, while the Prime Minister has been Prime Minister, and which are therefore in a situation where the benefit of moving from it in a job to a contractual minimum wage is very, very small • 6 DKK. It's an hour. We don't think that's okay. We think we should change that, in combination with a ceiling. When we talk about refugees who are in a temporary situation, we have pointed out that the rules we have for our SU recipients could be based on a commitment. We have pointed out that a language bonus should then be given so that people who come to Denmark as refugees can more quickly grasp the Danish labour market. But we are talking for deaf ears in the sense that the Prime Minister does not think there is a problem at all, and I should refrain from asking questions. I would just like to say that we can sum up what the Prime Minister has said here today for a prize of DKK 6. in class, but that's the one you can get, and that's the one you want to settle for. It's okay. That is a point of view that I do not agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132239	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132240	When we do not want to cut benefits for people on cash benefits, it is because it can have some very serious consequences for a number of families, and that is a dilemma. It is a dilemma to find the right time when there will be no poverty, and I can hear that the Left does not care about the challenge that has not been mentioned so much as once. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. has changed the ceiling or start-up aid, it is because we are genuinely concerned about whether poverty is the right way to ensure integration. And when we look at the figures, and there has been a great deal of debate on this in recent days, we must also note that there is no indication that the Left's ceiling on cash aid contributed to more people entering the labour market. So that is our concern in this matter, and that is the answer to the question: there are other considerations than those which Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is busy. Now we are about to conclude the debate, and I just have to say that today we have almost got the Left to say that the DKK 35 000, The left traveled with them and said that they had to earn to pay for work was wrong; that the whole campaign that it was on the assumption that it was not worth working at all was wrong; that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will not admit to me and to the Danes that we are talking about only 1,000 families. It emphasizes again: no plans from the Left and a very relaxed relationship with the figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132408	There's one minute to the last round. Next round, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahls.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132418	Thank you for that, President. Now it is the first question hour we have since the terrible things happened in Copenhagen the night between Saturday 14 February and Sunday 15 February. The terrorist came to Denmark in earnest, and we were all deeply shocked. A question hour has been cancelled since, and that's why it's the first time we've met in this context. And I just think it is important to stress that if anyone is listening and thinking that it was really fast enough that it was everyday life in the Folketing again that there are negotiations on initiatives to counter the terrorist threat, also in relation to how we ensure the Jewish community in Denmark. It is negotiations that are very important for the Danish People's Party, and it is negotiations that we hope will end in a good result in favour of the Danes' security. Later today there will be new negotiations, so we would at least just like to point out that we very much hope that a large majority of Parliament will have the necessary initiatives taken in this context. Secondly, I would like to turn to some of the points raised by the Prime Minister in his introduction, namely the fact that the Prime Minister is advocating a responsible economy. We've debated that sometimes down here. I think that last time we had a question time, we discussed this with the fact that when we talk about the asylum area, such as the refugee area, the responsible economy is that in 2011 we had costs, if this is done in a comparable way, of 2.9 billion • 2.9 billion • which in 2015 is expected to be 9.2 billion, i.e. a quite strong increase. The municipalities will have to find accommodation for 12 000 refugees in the coming months, and the families will be brought together. It is a huge task, and the government wants to find work for these people almost immediately. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if she would not agree with what Mariana Mariana, the Head of the Red Cross asylum office in Bulgaria, who is speaking in Copenhagen here today, says: "For several years Germany and Sweden have been at the top of the list of countries that refugees have had as the target of their flight. But in the last two years, Denmark has moved up on the list of countries that are attractive targets for refugees. This is due, among other things, to the good reception given to asylum seekers in this country, as well as the high social benefits. Does the Prime Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132641	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132643	First of all, thank you to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to turn it over with the terror, I think that is the right thing to do. When there are many refugees coming to Denmark at the moment, this is due to the fact that there are record numbers on the run since the Second World War • 50 million people are on the run, they are very many people. Some of them also apply to Denmark, and we must of course ensure that we have some asylum rules that ensure that we can also deal with the number of people who are coming. That is also why the government has brought forward a tightening of the asylum rules, as far as I remember, it is the first tightening up in 10-12 years that we are putting forward, and that is precisely because we also want to keep up with it. And it must be possible to have a balance where, on the one hand, we treat the people who come to Denmark properly, ensure that they reach the Danish labour market as quickly as possible and contribute to Danish society, but on the other hand they can also keep up. And that's one of them. Therefore, we have proposed a tightening of the asylum rules • the first for many, many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132748	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132749	I assume that I shall interpret it as a yes, that is to say that the Prime Minister agrees with the Head of Asylum for the Red Cross in Bulgaria, Maryana Stoyanova, who is speaking here in Copenhagen today. She says that when Denmark has moved up on the list of countries that are attractive targets for refugees, this is due to, among other things, the fact that the country is not a member of the European Union. the good reception given to asylum seekers in this country, as well as the high social benefits. It is almost impossible to interpret it differently, and that is also the result of what the Social Democrats' rapporteur on integration and immigration, Mr. Ole Hækkerup, has mentioned where he to Ritzau among others. has said: 'Right in this area, the signals mean a great deal too. Unfortunately, it is our experience that this is how it works. There are smugglers sitting on the other end and coining where it is easier to obtain asylum. ▪ Let's put these things together, i.e. the signals mean a lot, and that's what Mariana Stoyanova is talking about, among other things. are the high social benefits that determine how many people apply to Denmark and that the municipalities now have to place housing, etc. and take care of all these challenges, so it is obvious to ask the Prime Minister if she will not change policy.She has done so sometimes in recent years in one of the areas that could make a difference, namely to reinstate the start-up aid. The start-up aid was, after all, a service that was lower than the cash benefits. It has changed the government so that you get into the cash assistance system immediately, and thus an average refugee family in Denmark gets an income increase of over 10,000 DKK. a month. It is obvious to think that it has had a great effect on how many people seek it. Will the Prime Minister be involved in reintroducing the startup aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132922	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310132924	That's funny, for the expert, like Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl actually refers to something else in the interview. After all, she says that the austerity that the government has carried out will probably also have an effect on how many asylum seekers are seeking asylum in Denmark. I am not going to be wise about that, but at least that is what she is saying, in other words, that the austerity that the government has carried out will have an effect, and I think that would actually suit Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to join. That would then mean that he should commend the government for carrying out that tightening and that would perhaps be a little difficult. When the government has proposed the tightening, which is the first tightening in 12 years, it is because we must also be able to keep up. There are many people coming to Denmark, and I think there are many reasons for this. I believe that the main reason is that there is civil war in Syria and that very many people are on the run. Some of them then come to Denmark. Our message is actually simple. Firstly, we have tightened the rules for obtaining asylum. The next thing we want to do is to ensure that people who come to Denmark enter the labour market as soon as possible. One of the things we need to avoid this time is that they become clients and enter the social system and never get out of there. On the contrary, they must enter the labour market and become part of Danish society as soon as possible. That is what I said in my New Year's speech, and that is what the government will shortly be putting forward proposals for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133053	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133054	There was no answer in connection with the start-up aid, and that is what I asked about. I can only note that after the government arrives in 2011, the number of asylum seekers in Denmark increases in 2012. In 2013, it is increasing again compared to 2012, and in 2014 it is increasing again compared to 2013. In January of this year the figure is higher than it was in January of last year. So we have had a completely continuous increase in the number of asylum seekers for Denmark since the present Prime Minister became Prime Minister. Then we have an asylum chief from the Red Cross who says that, among other things. is due to the higher social benefits provided in Denmark. Then I ask the Prime Minister whether the government will help restore the start-up aid that was law in this country until the current government took over. The change made by the government has given an average refugee family an increase in income of over DKK 10,000 each month, and if it is linked to the fact that higher social benefits have an effect on how many people apply to Denmark, then it is obvious that there is a connection. Therefore, I just ask the Prime Minister: will the Prime Minister help to re-evaluate his policy in this area and help to restore the start-up aid so that we can bring down the asylum figures in Denmark and thus also enable the municipalities to integrate those who need to be here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133201	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133202	I really didn't see it as a problem for Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to understand that we will of course not change the starting aid, because then we would have proposed it and done so. We have no plans to change anything in relation to the startup aid, because there we have Kristian Thulesen Dahl, because we are not sure that people who are pushed into poverty have a better chance of doing well in Denmark, out on the Danish labour market and becoming part of Danish society. It is, of course, a balance that we are concerned with and that the majority of the Folketing is concerned with, but poverty is not the solution either. So the answer is quite simple: No, we are not going to reinstate the start-up aid. We think it was a bad idea, because it mainly meant that people got further away from society, became poor, and mainly it was the families of children who became poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133252	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Prime Minister. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133300	After all, the Prime Minister gave a good New Year's speech on 1 January, but it is some time since we ended the turn of the year, and several of the elements that were in the speech "welfare, integration and growth" we still need to see crystallization in something more concrete. That's why I'm going to start by asking the Prime Minister about her announcement in the speech about an upcoming children's initiative from the government. I think the Prime Minister used the words: now is the time for the smallest. Of course, SF and I share one hundred percent of the Prime Minister's focus on the smallest, and I am also very proud that we succeeded in putting 1 billion into the Finance Act. kr. to several adults in our day nurseries and kindergartens. That is why I wondered a little last week, because after radio silence has taken place since the New Year's speech, the Minister for Children reports that the government has no intention of allocating funds to employ more adults in our day care institutions, and this is happening while BUPL launches a major study which shows that a third of the educators experience being completely alone with the children in the day care institutions. And just to give a picture of it, you can take a crèche where there may be 8-9 children in a living room where there is one educator who sometimes has to change diapers. That means that there are children who are all alone. So it matters that there are more adults for our children. This is something we have fought for in the Finance Act both in 2012 and again in 2015, but we have not reached the goal, and this is a problem that we need to ensure is resolved. Therefore, can it be true that the government believes that nothing should be done to get more adults for our children in the institutions, that a children's play does not focus at all on the number of adults, and that only reference is made to the fact that among other things. Has anything been done in connection with the Finance Act this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133456	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133458	I believe, of course, that the area of children is one of the areas that we fortunately have in common, and we have now spent a great deal of money on children too. So this is certainly a priority area. Nor is it quite right, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says, that this area has been quite quiet, because there have actually been debates with stakeholders about what one might want for this area. So I certainly don't think that those who are involved in the children's area every day feel this has been quiet. But the government does, of course, as we have said. We'll come up with a playout around our kids, and we'll do that when it's done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133532	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133533	In other words, the Prime Minister is not really going to answer my question as to whether it will be part of the children's play that, for example, there will be an increase in the number of children. will be more adults in our day care institutions. I'll wait with excitement. Another important area mentioned by the Prime Minister in the New Year's speech was the question of how to get more refugees and immigrants into work. Once again, the SF shares the view of the government that it is important to get them to work immediately. And all we have to say is that the previous bourgeois government did nothing to get people into work. Many immigrants and asylum seekers have been outside the labour market for over 10 years, and this is due to a failed asylum, refugee and integration policy of a bourgeois government. SF believes it is a paradox that, on the one hand, we see that a great many jobs are currently occupied by foreign workers and, on the other, we see that immigrants and asylum seekers have a real difficulty in getting jobs. It doesn't make sense, for example. a Romanian travels all the way to Denmark for work, while refugees and immigrants in this country in a very large number are outside the labour market. Then, in the integration project, which I believe the government is probably also talking about with stakeholders, and which is still on the table of the Minister of Employment, will it be possible to find a special effort aimed at getting immigrants and refugees into jobs, of course, on collective pay and working conditions? Will it be included in the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133658	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133700	It is quite true that the government will shortly be presenting a proposal to bring more refugees and immigrants into the labour market. And, of course, the game is based on the fundamental values we have in terms of rights and, above all, duties. My starting point, as I also said in my New Year's speech, is that the refugees who come to Denmark now should not be made clients. They don't come as clients. They come as some people who expect them to contribute to Danish society. And they should not live on the edge of Danish society. On the contrary, they must contribute to the community. This means that they must learn the language as soon as possible, that is to say Danish. They must be out of Danish colleagues as soon as possible. They must experience how we do things here in Denmark, and they must contribute to Danish society. My attitude and hope is that as many people as possible will get started at a Danish workplace. The best thing is, of course, if you can get a real job if your skills can be used in the Danish labour market as quickly as possible. However, there will also be some who may be able to solve some of the tasks that we still have to do in our society, and we will then set a plan rather than how that can happen. But the best thing is, of course, if you get out at a Danish workplace and get some Danish colleagues. And then there will also be some areas where you have to work and make use of in society • some areas that are not really ordinary jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133829	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133830	Allow me to interpret the Prime Minister's words in such a way that it is where we can agree that these are real jobs. And I also hope that the government will include the question of how to fill some of the many jobs we have today, which are precisely dominated by Eastern European labour. It's just a positive interpretation. I would say that the last thing that filled the Prime Minister's New Year speech was the issue of growth. The Prime Minister began his speech today with the fact that it looks positive and that things are going better in Denmark. I agree with the Prime Minister, not least on the basis of an economic policy for which SF has also been responsible. However, many people are still out of work in Denmark today. A month ago we presented our proposals on how to create new jobs here and now, but since New Year we have heard nothing from the government. The Prime Minister began his speech with it, but we still need to make the plan for growth more concrete. So I'm gonna ask you really to round it all off: when does the government come up with something in the field of growth? We need new jobs. When does the government bring anything on the children's field? And when will the government come up with something in the area of integration so that we can get our refugees and asylum seekers to work? Because there is no doubt that we need to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133941	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310133943	I think Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr makes it sound like nothing is happening in these areas. However, we have just drawn up a financial law agreement in which we give priority to children and where we ensure that there will be more resources in the day institutions. So it is not the case that nothing has happened in this area. In view of the fact that people who come here have to do something in the labour market, we have been very clear that we do not want to repeat the mistakes of the past, but rather that those people have to enter the labour market. It will not be all in ordinary jobs, I think I can say that very clearly, because we may not be able to solve that challenge. But there will be wage subsidies jobs, there will be useful jobs, there will be different entrances to the Danish labour market, where the best of course is that you can get into an ordinary job and start contributing to Danish society. I really hope that SF will be a part of this. In relation to growth, too, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyh makes it sound as if it has stood still in the field of growth all that time, but that is not actually the case. For the initiatives that we took in both 2013 and 2014 have to work. They must work, and in this way they have probably also made their contribution to the fact that in Denmark we have had six consecutive quarters of growth. So the government is constantly working on growth and employment and, as I said in my New Year's speech, we will also be putting forward new growth proposals during the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134111	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and the Prime Minister. And then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen who has a round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134121	The Prime Minister says that sir... Lars Løkke Rasmussen has a rather relaxed relationship with numbers. And it is true that I have to say that it is not just an extremely unsympathetic attack that we have seen from the Left on those people who are so unfortunate to be affected by unemployment, it is also an extremely manipulative campaign. And now, with Mr. Knox... Lars Løkke Rasmussen accuses the current government that the number of cash aid recipients has increased while this government has been in power, so that would suit Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen also just to tell that one of the main reasons why more people have come on cash benefits is that they have fallen out of the benefit system, as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was in charge of demeaning. Many important things are happening these days and I will use Question Time on two different themes. The first thing I want to ask is the conflicts that are currently taking place in the aviation sector. Unfortunately, we are experiencing a very, very unpleasant and aggressive behaviour by airlines, as such, through various manoeuvres, pressures and threats, trying to put an end to proper wage and working conditions for employees in the industry and trying to eliminate the right of employees to negotiate agreements. And I think the worst example is Ryanair, which wants to establish itself in Denmark, but which refuses to accept the rules and agreements that we have in this country and that employees in Denmark have fought for generations to achieve. Right now it is Norwegian that creates problems and insecurity, because through some manoeuvres with new subsidiaries the company will escape the agreements. It has then pressed the pilots to strike with the result that a lot of customers, including Danes, are hit. In addition, the companies then use screwbreakers to fly a number of the routes affected by the conflict. I have to say that I think that the attacks on the conditions of employees, the attempts to push down wages and working conditions are deeply unsympathetic, and I think that the company's use of screwbreakers in carrying out conflict-torn work is also very unsympathetic. That is why I was very pleased to see that the Swedish Social Democratic Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, who himself has a background in the trade union movement, said very clearly to Norwegian the other day and actually called their use of screwbreakers a shitty thing. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with his Swedish colleague and party colleague and would also like to distance himself from these methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134403	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134405	First of all, I would like to refer to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussens's and Left's use of numbers say that it is very relaxed, as I said, because when there are some things that do not really fit, you don't really change it for common language use. There are several examples of the fact that it is a little tricky with the Left and that they have a slightly relaxed relationship with the figures. So thank you to Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen for mentioning that. In relation to the Norwegian conflict to which Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen refers, I would first like to say that my basic view is that the work carried out in Denmark must, of course, be carried out on proper pay and working conditions. That is what we can do in Denmark; that is what we are known for. It must be done on proper pay and working conditions. But I also believe that we must respect the fact that it is and remains an important part of the Danish labour market model that the government does not interfere in labour disputes. This is a labour dispute and, like all other times in which there has been a labour dispute, I do not think that the government should interfere, and I do not want to do so in this conflict either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134519	Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134520	Now we're having a little joke with mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussens, I think, quite unimportant use of figures in the political debate. In fact, it is quite serious. In other words, it is deeply serious that a man who wants to be Prime Minister is campaigning against those people who have the very least in our society, those who are so unhappy and unlucky to be affected by unemployment, who are so manipulative. I have to say that we can laugh about that, but it is actually very serious. I had hoped for a clearer response to the attacks by these extremely aggressive international airlines on employees' rights. In fact, I have received a fairly clear answer from the Prime Minister's Swedish colleague, but I want to change track. I'd like to ask you about the discussion that is now whether it's okay to tap without a warrant. A rather harsh criticism of the government's terrorist package has been raised because it will allow the Defence Intelligence Service to listen to Danes abroad without the intervention having to be approved by an independent court. This criticism has come from a number of leading legal experts, who say that this is simply to tamper with the division of power, because it is absolutely fundamental or central to a democracy, a rule of law, that one must of course pass a judge. And I think it's very sensible and wise to use surveillance as a tool in this fight against terror... anything else would be foolish... but I just don't see the problem of letting a judge in. It is even possible to do so with retroactive effect. My question is: does it not at all impress the Prime Minister that the main legal experts have strongly criticised the government's proposals for simply violating the principles of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134705	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134707	First of all, on the comments on Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Left use of numbers. I am not enjoying it; I think it is serious. I find it strange that the Left, which wants to lead the next government, has a campaign which concerns 1,000 families. We do not want to recognise that this is the case, that is to say we are targeting a campaign against a group which is already not the strongest in our society. So I kind of agree with that, and I don't think it's funny at all, so I haven't drawn on the smile tape. In relation to the specific question of claims for a court order. Well, first of all, I think we should have our basis on what the challenge is. The challenge is that there are some people who have grown up in Denmark, the so-called foreign fighters or foreign fighters, or whatever you would call them, who unfortunately represent an essential part of the terrorist threat that is directed at Denmark. That is the situation we are facing now and it is a very special situation. That is why we believe that there is a need for us to have even better opportunities to protect ourselves against that terrorist threat. It is already the case that the FE can follow foreign extremists in Syria, and they must of course also have the opportunity to follow Danish extremists in Syria. And they must do so at an earlier stage than they would normally be able to obtain a court order; so today there must be a concrete suspicion against someone, an extremist, or another criminal relationship. And it has to be said that at the early stage, when we want to be able to monitor people more, there will not necessarily be a concrete suspicion or an earlier criminal relationship. Therefore, this is the right tool in a situation where we also have to recognise that foreign fighters are part of the threat to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134902	Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310134905	It is not at all debatable that monitoring people who could be planning attacks on Denmark is, of course, a very sensible tool. What we are talking about, and what the discussion is about, is whether such surveillance should pass by a judge. It is absolutely fundamental for the rule of law that we should not, of course, just let the Defence Intelligence Service or the PET or the police intervene against citizens without getting a judge over. On top of that, it is possible to do so with retroactive effect. I think it is a pity that the Prime Minister does not respond that way to the problem of getting it past a judge. I know that the Prime Minister has had a history in the past that, with the current rules, the Defence Intelligence Service will have to interrupt a telephone intercept of foreigners if a Dane comes on the line. That information has been avoided by a number of experts. It is simply not true that this is the case. The Prime Minister has then refused to answer to my colleague, Mrs Pernille Skipper, in the Danish Parliament whether the Prime Minister maintains this information or whether the Prime Minister recognises that she just got the screw tightened. I actually think that's weird. And so I would like to ask: does the Prime Minister recognize that it is not or will the Prime Minister, under ministerial responsibility, repeat that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135029	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135031	I mean, it's kind of weird, because I'm always told I'm not answering the questions, but I actually answered the question. I replied that if you are to have a warrant, there must be a concrete suspicion of terrorism or another criminal offence. What is at the heart of the matter here is that you do not want to use random discoveries, but you will be able to go in and listen carefully to a person, even if there is no concrete suspicion of terrorism. That is to say, you are at a stage in clarifying a situation where you cannot get a court order. That is why we would like to have the possibility that even if you do not have the opportunity to obtain a warrant, because there is no concrete suspicion of terror • can monitor who that person is communicating with. Everything else is out of the question. Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen must say that she does not think we should have that option. I believe that we should have that opportunity, and I think that I reply very clearly: we do not have enough at that time to be able to obtain a court order, and we would like to examine with whom these people communicate, even if they are Danes, so to speak. Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen is right to disagree with that view. I just think it's the right tool to have in the Danish defence against terror.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135146	Thank you to Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen and the Prime Minister. And then it's sir. Anders Samuelsen, who has the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135157	I would actually like to start by making sure that the Prime Minister and I agree on one thing, namely that it is possible to make the public sector more efficient without reducing the level of service. Is it not true that the government and the Liberal Alliance see this as the same basically, in other words, that it is possible to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135217	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135218	It depends on how much efficiency the public sector wants. I think you have to find a level. I mean, we've set up an amount of 12 billion. kr., and the Liberal Alliance, as far as I remember, adds up to an amount of 80 billion. kr. I am absolutely convinced that if the public sector is made more efficient for 80 billion. kr. and, moreover, if one in ten employees in the public sector are fired, it will be felt at the level of the service.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135237	Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135238	In other words, it can quickly end up in some controversy, but the Prime Minister knows very well that we do not intend to fire anyone in the public sector; we can deal with matters by natural departure. However, I am glad that, as a starting point, we have a similar view of how efficient we can be without reducing the level of service. The Prime Minister confirmed that. What is really just the question is: what are we going to spend the money on? After all, the Prime Minister's own figures show that you want to save 1⁄2% that you want to make it more efficient for 1⁄2%. That was the 12 billion. kr., which the Prime Minister himself just spoke about in the answer. I cannot quite understand why the Prime Minister is laughing at his own answer, but it is so obviously a new approach when you do not want to answer the question. However, my question is this: could it not be a good idea to bring back some of this money to solve the problem that has actually been raised by the Left, but which is indeed of concern to the government, namely how to create more jobs, how to get more people into work? And the figures show, among other things, that the most effective way to do this was to use this saving in the public sector to reduce registration fees on cars. It is actually more effective than raising the level of the top tax rate, or facilitating the tax at the bottom, etc. This is something that really gives something in relation to new jobs. Could we not agree to spend the money on it instead of just inventing new tasks in the public sector, which the government does not even know today what should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135402	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135404	When I had a good time, it was because mr. Anders Samuelsen was a little fresh, I think, in concluding that we agreed that we could just make things more efficient in the public sector without it being felt. Just to make it perfectly clear to Mr. Anders Samuelsen, I would like to say that I think we disagree on how much efficiency can be achieved in the public sector without it being felt. It is true that we are suggesting that we should turn every penny in the public sector to a greater extent than has been done in the past; we are suggesting that we can make it more efficient. However, we are not suggesting that this can be done in the order of magnitude proposed by the Liberal Alliance, because we believe that this will actually reduce public service. Nor are we going to go along with the Liberal Alliance's concern that we can do without one in ten in the public sector, because we believe that this will also be felt at the level of services. So when I had a little fun, it was because I thought, sir. Anders Samuelsen was a little quick to conclude that we were in agreement, because we are absolutely not. I believe that if you go too hard on it in terms of efficiency, it will reduce the level of service. Of course, if you do not have one in ten in the public sector, it will also be felt in relation to the level of service. Then, in relation to the registration tax, which was actually what the Liberal Alliance asked about, I would just like to say that if you remove the registration tax, that money will be lacking to finance our welfare. And the Liberal Alliance itself must be accountable for how they will find the money or how much less well-being we will have in the public sector. And as it is calculated, we are talking about 18 billion. kr. a year. If you then add it to what I also understand there is a motion for a resolution from the Liberal Alliance, namely to remove the bridge tariff from the Storebælt link, then a few billions will begin to be missing in the box, and that will, of course, affect welfare. And what will suit the Liberal Alliance is just to tell the voters honestly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135553	Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135554	It was true, a lot of words and one way or another about a completely unnaturally cultivated conflict. I did not say at any time that we agreed on how much could be made more effective. After all, we agree with the Productivity Commission, that is, the government's own commission, that it can be done for 10%, and it can be done without costing anything on the service. The government doesn't agree with that. What was my question and my entrance to this was that we agreed that it could be made more effective. The question is how much. It's really interesting, and I don't think there's so many people out there who are aware that this government actually thinks that it can be made more efficient without costing anything at the service level. The only disagreement between us is how much can be done, and there we stand on the back of the government's own commission, which says 10%, and the government then says that it cannot be done without the welfare society falling apart. But why not get to grips with that Commission and take the starting point that we can do something here and then reserve the means to lower taxes so that we can get to where we solve the fundamental problem for those people who have been so much in focus in these weeks, namely that they have to be moved from a transfer income and in employment. That is where we can effectively use the saved funds in the public sector to reduce taxes, increase employment. It gives a much higher income, and then we are actually free to discuss how much you get out of being on a transfer income. Because then we can start discussing how much you get out of being at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135724	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135726	It's still a little funny that we have to pretend we agree. Because we say that it is a much smaller amount that can be made more effective. Liberal Alliances say that a great deal of money can be made more efficient and, of course, this will have an impact on the level of service in the public sector. What I find strange is that we should try to imagine that we agree on this issue, because we are not. It is actually very good that LA is putting forward its concrete policy, but there is just the fundamental difference that the government wants to develop welfare in the coming years, and the Liberal Alliance wants to reduce welfare. It is actually quite simple. What would suit the Liberal Alliance was to try not to blur the difference; that is what I thought there was a slight tendency to do. And then I'm having a little trouble understanding that mr. Anders Samuelsen does not think that he will get an answer to his question about the registration fee, because he does. We think this is a bad idea. This is a small revenue for the state of 18 billion. kr., and the Liberal Alliance still has the benefit of telling the people where it is then to be saved; where that money should come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135832	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen and the Prime Minister. Then this is the last question to the Prime Minister during Question Time, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310135844	I think it seems really strange when the Prime Minister chooses to make such a hard attack on the Left in connection with a question posed by the Enhedslisten. I just think it is a little out of the question that in this way we are attacking parties which cannot speak up for themselves. I just thought I'd say that. I also find it a little strange that there are no other parties that really come in and address the really unhappy terrorist attack that Denmark experienced. The last time the Question Time was cancelled as a result of the tragic events, but if we turn the time back even further before the terrorist attack, the Prime Minister and I were in direct debate. It was an important political debate started by the Danish People's Party, where I am among others. the question asked: Is it good enough for us to have the preparedness? Is that good enough, and are we sure enough? I asked on top of the terrorist attack that was in Paris and on top of what was subsequently averted in Belgium. Then the Prime Minister replied: Yes, that is good enough. It turned out that it was not, but then the Prime Minister saw no reason for change. I cannot help noting that the Conservative People's Party in the autumn of our 2020 plan, which we have also discussed once, has just said that we want more police, that we want more local police stations and that we want the imams that preach hatred and death and violence in Denmark not to come in. Now we have presented an ambitious plan, which is, of course, fully funded by an anti-terrorist package of 3.4 billion. kr., which contains more resources for the police, intelligence and rescue services. Unfortunately, however, the government is not quite so ambitious. And it is actually going to be a little difficult to find out what the government actually wants, because so far the government has found 80 million. kr. in new money. And there we are then assured in the Ministry of Justice that it is good enough, even if that amount is actually increased every time we come up for new negotiations. So I would just like a clear answer as to how many new crowns the government will contribute to the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140057	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140058	I think Mrs Mai Mercado remembers a little wrong, because after the terrorist attacks in Paris we actually started a questioning round, you might say, with our services, where we asked them if they had sufficient tools to prevent terrorism in Denmark. They then came back with their bid, and that is what is the basis for the terrorist package we have put forward now. So, even after the terrorist attacks in Paris, we took care to ask whether there are further things that we could set in motion. That is why we have presented a terrorist package, and what this is all about is getting even better and building on top of a robust anti-terrorist defence. Denmark has shown the days around the terrorist attack in Copenhagen that we have, but that doesn't change the fact that you can put on top of the robust protection against terrorism. And that is what we are debating at the moment, and we are doing that in the police and defence circles respectively. But what I am delighted about, because it must always be remembered that Mrs Mai Mercado and the Conservative People's Party have now said and acknowledged that there are many discoveries today that this is new money for the police in 2015. Now there has been debate back and forth when you went in and out of the negotiations, and it has not yet been recognised that there was new money. But today, the Conservatives have said that there are
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140229	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140232	I don't think anyone has denied that at any time. But what the Prime Minister forgets in his equation is exactly the 50 million. kr., which the police themselves have to finance from this. And there I just think that if you ask the ordinary policemen on the street what they say about politicians asking the police themselves to finance the extra initiatives that need to be taken, namely by spending 50 million. kr. They must be disillusioned by the fact that, as a responsible politician in this country, we are not bringing in some new money, but asking the police to pay for themselves. After all, no one should be in any doubt that the Conservative People's Party actually wants to get more money. I mean, we already proposed in the autumn that we set aside 500 million. kr. extra to get more cops out on the streets, so we raise it to up to 12,000 cops in total. I just have to say that the government doesn't have the same ambitions at all. 80 million kr. versus 500 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140332	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140334	Well, now Mrs. Mai Mercado has to decide. Is this new money or not new money? Now she has once said that there are 80 million. kr., which is new money; they come from the Ministry of Finance. And I would actually recommend that we stick to what was said the first time, because this is new money. It is true that some of the money must also be found by the police, but the 80 million. kr., which Mrs Mai Mercado started talking about, is quite right, as Mrs Mai Mercado said initially, new money. It's a grant that wouldn't be there if we didn't decide on this in the Folketing. That is also why I hope that the parties of the Folketing will support us in getting the new funds. We cannot decide that alone in the government. We have to have support for this in the Folketing, and what may surprise me in this case is that it must take so much time to get the parties of the Folketing to back up. Why not just get that money granted, get a majority in place so that the police can get started with the important work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140434	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140435	It is quite incredible, because the Prime Minister knows so well that an action has been requested in two rounds, almost for every meeting we have come to, of 50 million respectively. kr. and 30 million. kr. In addition to that, the Prime Minister also admitted 50 million. kr., which the police have to pay for themselves. I do not understand why the Prime Minister thinks it is right that our police should help to pay for the additional initiatives that are now being launched. We cannot even get to the Ministry of Justice to see if other police tasks are going to be affected. That is why it would be nice if we were in such a serious situation as this: the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice took this responsibility and actually came up with more money, because it has to be said that the initiatives that exist go well beyond the 80 million. kr. After all, we have said that we would like to be able to carry out the task of financing the additional expenditure here and now. We would like to do so, but it is of no use that so much of the money the government is giving comes from the police themselves, and that is why we make this call: dear government, come now and throw some more money on the table, so we have something real to negotiate about, because it is not sustainable in the long run that the police themselves have to pay 50 million. kr., and we fear, when we get further, that once again you come with a bill, and once again the police have to pay for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140601	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140606	I am glad that we have got into place in today's debate, that this is new money for the police. It's money that we can't use for ourselves. We have to have it adopted in the Folketing, and that is my hope, when Conservatives have finished their process talk and all sorts of extravagances, that they will just go down to the Assembly Hall and help grant the money so that the police can carry out the tasks we want them to perform. What has happened over the last few weeks is that there has been a great deal of talk and not very specific commitment, not even by Conservatives. It's not the government that's the problem. We have said that we want to find the money, not only this year but also in the coming years. This will also be reflected in our Finance Act. What is the problem is that we have Conservatives, the Left and other parties who would rather talk process than just get down to the Parliamentary Chamber and put those things through so that the police can get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140704	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado and thank you to the Prime Minister. That concludes Question Time to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140718	Today there are the following reviews: Morten Marinus (DF) and others.: Bill No. L 158 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on the election of the Folketing. Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 88 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on safeguarding the cultural rights of the Danes in Denmark by putting an end to discrimination against Danes and Danish culture in public institutions). Frank Aaen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 89 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution granting public authorities and companies the option of opting out of agreements with companies operating in tax havens). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on Legal Affairs has presented: Report on the terrorist attack in Copenhagen on 14 and 15 February 2015. 7. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: Report on the Report of the Commission on Taxation. 8. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has presented: Report on the report by the Blekingegade Commission. 9). The reports will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140825	Member of the Folketing Anita Christensen (DF) applied for leave from 10 March 2015 due to illness. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140850	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Danish People's Party in the Greater District of South Jutland, Susanne Eilersen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 10 March 2015 on the occasion of Anita Christensen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310140915	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted by 109 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141004	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is only one proposal [Proposal for adoption no. V 28 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), Julie Skovsby (S), Marlene Borst Hansen (RV), Özlem Sara Cekic (SF), Stine Brix (EL) and Daniel Rugholm (KF)), and voting is possible. The vote will end. The proposal has been adopted unanimously by 107 votes. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141040	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 30 of Trine Bramsen (S), Zenia Stampe (RV), Sanne Rubinke (SF) and Pernille Skipper (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 52 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 30 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 29 of Søren Pind (V), Marie Krarup (DF), Leif Mikkelsen (LA) and Mike Legarth (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141145	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141202	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 109 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141233	Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141249	I would like to begin by saying that we naturally support the initiatives that have been put forward. This is indeed part of the proposal that we made and implemented in 2011 on customs and border controls, but there are some criticisms. We would have liked some money to have been included, but let it be. After all, it is always a discussion about funding. What brings me up here is that we have requested legal assistance for the drafting of an amendment which means that the agreement on permanent customs controls in Denmark is implemented as part of the law. That will be a clear improvement. It will be a really smart and good border control for the benefit of Denmark and for the benefit of the Danes, but we have tried several times, and we have received no both times from the Ministry of Justice. We have asked in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, but we have received no in two rounds. Then you can begin to interpret it and say whether it is politically motivated reluctance to provide a party as DF assistance or whether it is a lack of ability and competence. It is certainly difficult for us to see that it should be based on a general politically motivated reluctance to provide us with assistance, so we wonder why the Ministry of Justice will not help. I really think that there were good tactics when the current Minister for Justice came to the conclusion that there should be cooperation between the Ministry of Justice, the government and the other parties, so we cannot understand the difficulties of the Ministry of Justice either. That is why we ourselves have tabled an amendment which meets the wish to implement the agreement on permanent customs controls in Denmark. We've been helped because now the Ministry of Justice didn't want to help us, by the Parliament's Legal Secretariat, which we're glad to thank for it from here. Anyway, we're wondering why the Justice Department won't or can't help. Well, maybe the Minister of Justice would answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141518	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141522	First of all, I would like to say that I would always like to give the Danish People's Party assistance in order to think if it meant that the party started to pursue a better policy and, of course, we do so with regard to amendments. In relation to the specific issue of reintroducing customs controls, I would say that it is quite practical in itself that the legislative proposal we are debating today is about better controls at our border crossings and not about customs controls, and if you want to increase customs controls, it is somewhere else than in the legislative proposal here. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has considered that if you want to reinstate the customs controls that have been in force in the past, but which we do not want, because we do not believe this is the most effective way to combat illegal immigration or cross-border crime, it does not actually require a change of law at all, because that is something that can be dealt with in other ways. If it has not been communicated clearly enough that there has been no need to introduce legal provisions and that this is a completely different legislation than the one we are discussing here, I am of course sorry, because we must always assist the members and parties of the Folketing, including with regard to the drafting of amendments. But there is no political justification for this, nor for incompetence; it is simply a question of practice and technology. If it hasn't been communicated well enough, of course I regret it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141642	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Sir. Langballe has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141650	But now we are putting forward an amendment immediately afterwards, which we naturally hope the parties of the Folketing will vote in favour of the government too. It would have been easy to meet our demand to provide us with this technical assistance, and if you so wanted the Treasury to help you with the customs services, you could have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141716	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141719	I do not think that the issue of customs should be included in this draft law, which deals with enhanced controls on immigration and, of course, illegal immigration. So it is, after all, a technical and practical question of where to place any customs intervention. But it is clear that if it has not been communicated well enough, that is what it is all about, it is a mistake and then it can be done better some other time. However, this does not change the fact that if we want to effectively strengthen controls at our border areas, we must continue to vote in favour of the proposal here. I have quite a lot of faith, basically believe that this will, by the way, be much more effective than the customs work that was carried out after the 2011 agreement, I think it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141800	Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141803	Now the agreement in 2011 contained somewhat double: on the one hand there were customs controls and, on the other hand, there were border controls. The proposal also included the purchase of scanners, license plate scanners and everything else, so both are contained. I would say that for ordinary people it looks like the same thing: there must be controls at the border and there may be technological border controls, and then there may be some people down there. Then I would say that it is up to the government to find out. I think that customs control could be implemented in this proposal because it is about border control and efficient and intelligent border control.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141846	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141849	That is precisely the word 'effective', which is what is crucial here, because I must not hide the fact that I, as the country's Minister of Justice, would like to know what is happening at our border crossings. I think that illegal immigration and the problems that result from it are deeply distressing to see, just as cross-border crime of all its nature, scale and nature is a major problem for Denmark, which is why we need better control at our border crossings. This is ensured by the bill here and, of course, I also hope, despite a technical dispute on some amendments, that the Danish People's Party, like other parties, will vote in favour of the proposal here, so that we ensure more effective control of our border crossings, because this will be important in the fight against cross-border crime and illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141936	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310141947	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF) and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 14 (DF and 1 S (by mistake)), against 95 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142040	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. Let's get some rest in the hall. If you want to talk in here, you have to go outside. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142120	Thank you very much. I thank the Enhedslisten for the proposal. First of all, I would like to make it clear that this is not a proposal that the government can support, but I would also like to acknowledge that the Enhedslisten, with the proposal, is touching on an important point that has our full attention. The issue in the proposal is how to ensure that the conversion to use biomass contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Enhedslisten proposes that the government establish a concept that recognises the net emissions of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142154	As the Minister does not speak very loudly, I would ask that others, in turn, speak extraly low.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142203	Do you want me to speak up? Yeah, I actually think so). I will. The reason for establishing such a concept is firstly that we are using more and more biomass, and secondly that emissions of CO2 Enhedslisten are absolutely right that Denmark, like a number of other EU countries, is using more and more biomass in energy supply, and that emissions from incineration are considered CO2 But Enhedslisten is not right in that the relevant emissions of CO2 Denmark and other countries follow the guidance of the UN climate panel, i.e. IPPC, when we prepare the national greenhouse gas accounts. And the logic is that it is a sector-by-sector account where greenhouse gas emissions from biomass are taken into account when the biomass is removed from, for example. the forest, if it is forest biomass, or from the field, if it is straw. Emissions from harvesting machines are included in the transport sector. Fertilisation emissions are included in the agricultural sector. There is no difference between how emissions of greenhouse gases from biomass and fossil energy are made up when it comes to how they are processed and provided. Emissions are being made up here in the relevant sectors, for example. transport, in the countries where it happens. There is a difference between how emissions are made up when biomass and fossil energy are used. The emissions from biomass are calculated when the biomass is removed from the forest, the field, etc., but the emissions from fossil energy such as coal are calculated when it is incinerated. Reporting to the UN and to the EU is to provide a comprehensive and full overview of global emissions and to be able to monitor the development of individual country emissions. And here it is important that the same emissions are not included twice. The unit list here proposes a kind of life cycle assessment of different biomass sources, and life cycle assessments are appropriate when comparing different types of fuels. They can be used for analysis purposes, but they are by no means comparable to the inventories we have in the national greenhouse gas accounts. The government had a number of life cycle assessments in the field of bioenergy as part of the 2012 Energy Agreement and they are available on the Danish Energy Agency's website. The results show that there is a significant difference in climate effects from the use of different types of biomass over a given period of time. The government does not believe that more detailed life cycle assessments will further contribute to ensuring that we use sustainable biomass in Denmark. When I started by stating that the area has the government's full attention, it was because biomass plays a major role in achieving Denmark's climate and energy objectives. We are aware that not all countries include the removal of biomass or have reduction commitments, for example. The Kyoto Protocol. This is therefore a very real issue that we recognise, and therefore Denmark is also working to ensure that the use of biomass is sustainable and helps to reduce global emissions of greenhouse gases. We are working for a global, ambitious climate agreement that ensures that all significant emissions are covered. At the same time, the government has worked to ensure that sustainability criteria are put forward at EU level, ensuring that all EU countries use sustainable biomass. However, it has been shown that there is insufficient support among the other EU countries for joint regulation of sustainable biomass use at this time. The Commission has announced that there will be no proposal for entry into force on this page of 2020. So we have among other things. for that reason, the Danish energy industry was invited to submit sustainability criteria for solid biomass. We support the voluntary agreement of the industry from December 2014, which supports the use of sustainable biomass in the Danish energy supply. Finally, let me thank you for the proposal. I hope that today's debate makes it clear that when the government does not support the Enhedslisten's proposal, it is not because we disagree with the need for us to use only sustainable biomass in Denmark on the contrary. However, we do not believe that new life cycle assessments will contribute further to addressing the challenges. On the other hand, I will work to ensure that Denmark, together with other like-minded countries and in cooperation with the industry, helps to create the right conditions for the use of biomass.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142613	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142617	Thank you for the Minister's comments. I would like to start by asking the Minister whether it is not true that even if one imagined that the biomass used was sustainable in accordance with the trade agreement made in Denmark, then there would still be a CO2 so that there would also be CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142652	Thank you. For example, I had... a small month ago the pleasure of opening a wood-fired heating plant in Slagelse, where the people from HedeDanmark, who delivered the chips from the nearby forests, thought that approx. 21⁄2%. of the total energy in the tile went to so that forests it and cut it into chips and transport it to the heating plant. And it's clear that when you value it to zero, it's because there's some CO2 so it's true that there's of course some emissions associated with carrying this chips into Slagelse. Of course there is. And that inventory is then in other sectors where you actually have to replace that release.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142736	Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142738	But even the Minister must admit that when biomass is burned off, there is a CO2 and unless at exactly the same rate there is an uptake of CO2 and the core of this resolution is, in fact, that we just ignore, and that may not be so wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142803	I don't know if it's fair to say that we're ignoring it. It is the case that the chips that are burned off at the work in Slagelse, as I said, have been raised as forests around Slagelse, and in its upbringing it has absorbed exactly the amount of CO2 so it is something that has already been taken up before the burning, and then it is released again. In this way, it can be said that as long as it is sustainable it means that there will be replanted and other things will then be a system in balance. But, of course, it has been deferred, because CO2 is emitted during combustion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142838	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's list and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Beazley. Thomas Danielsen, speaking for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310142847	Thank you for that, President. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. We are discussing today B 56, which is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the recognition of CO2 2 The purpose is thus sympathetic enough, but the problem is that this proposal is mostly and remains a signal policy. In fact, the proposal has no relevance or, at least, no environmental benefit. The Enhedslisten does not believe that the international climate agreements in which the use of biomass is defined not to lead to CO 2 2 That is why CO 2 2 Biomass will have been taken into account today replaces fossil fuels as coal and gas and together with wind power is one of the largest building blocks in our Danish green conversion. Turning power plants into biomass is one of the biggest initiatives in the energy agreement that the Left entered into with the government, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party in 2012, and which the Enhedslisten later also joined. In December of last year, Danish Energy and Danish District Heating published an industry agreement in which the industry demands that the biomass burned in the Danish power plants is sustainable, so as to ensure both CO 2 There is international agreement that CO 2 2 In the UN's guidance biomass is calculated as CO 2 2 The Enhedslisten is absolutely right in their considerations that burning biomass leads to a CO 2 In addition, we in the Left would like to draw attention to the fact that the industry agreement is based on the strictest international regulation and practice that exists in order to make the process of introducing pan-European regulation in this area more flexible in the long term. We therefore believe that any action and regulation of biomass should take place at EU level and not by Danish special requirements. Danish special requirements for simply making the purchase of biomass difficult for Denmark without leading to more sustainability. In the Left we have to conclude that the Enhedslisten resolution is complicated and costly and that, at the same time, it will have no environmental benefit for the climate. So the Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143211	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143214	You want me to understand, sir? Thomas Danielsen so that if you place restrictions on its use of biomass, then you only use biomass, which also in a shorter time perspective is C0 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143243	No, sir. Per Clausen isn't supposed to understand that part. What I am trying to talk about is that we will not achieve any environmental gain by changing the accounting form. What we really want, if we need to make a problem visible, is to get it lifted to an international level and not a Danish level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143305	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143307	Well, then I'll have to understand, sir. Thomas Danielsen so that he agrees that Enhedslisten lays up to make a more accurate calculation, but he does not think it is enough. It must also lead to some conclusions. In fact, we need to include these elements in order to ensure that we use sustainable biomass, that is biomass, which recovers C0 2 relatively quickly if it is Mr. Thomas Danielsen's point of view, I see good prospects in continuing cooperation with the Left in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143341	In the Left we welcome the good cooperation we have with Enhedslisten in many areas. But the way in which the rapporteur understands this is that, in isolation, it will impose some burdens on Denmark. And if we are to make statements in a different way than we are doing today, we in the Left believe that it should be done at an international level and not at a national level. So there may well be arguments for making statements in other ways, but that is something that we must raise internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143411	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143424	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for raising this debate. It is clear that when we are in the process of a major transformation of the energy sector and when we use biomass as part of the transition, because we believe that it is more appropriate, more sustainable than, for example, coal power, it is of course also important to discuss what environmental gains are made from biomass. That is why this discussion is so welcome. It is also our view in the Social Democratic Party that the way we fight it is to keep a beard and snot on its own. It should be understood in this way that the CO2 energy sector, in the sense that they are talked to in the land use of the agricultural sector and elsewhere where they are provided, is talked to. You don't have to deal with things twice. Of course, it gives the second challenge that you can figure out that if we have not picked up the biomass right around the corner and are sure that it will be planted again, we have a climate problem and a challenge. That is why, in this context, the attitude of the government and the Social Democrats is that we need to pursue an international track in which we ensure that the biomass we bring home meets sustainability criteria. That is what the industry has now taken the initiative on, and we would like to discuss whether that is enough. I do not think that we are going to finish this just for the time being, but in the first place we think it is sensible for the industry to have taken the initiative to say what it really is that it is necessary for biomass to be considered sustainable. But it is also clear that it is only really moving if we can get international agreements in place, so wherever in the world you get these things, they have to meet certain requirements. So I am really glad that we are discussing what requirements we have for biomass, when we use it for a transitional period at least in our green transition. Then it is important that it also brings a climate benefit. However, we do not believe that what the Enhedslisten's proposal proposes is necessary, partly because we think that we have an excellent accounting system where we do not count CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143701	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143705	After all, I agree with Mr. Knox. Jens Joel in that it might sound good to say we make international agreements, and until then we make voluntary trade agreements. There is just one problem: when are these international agreements coming? Just putting this in place at EU level has so far proved completely impossible. The second is that if we look at the trade agreement that has been made in Denmark, we find that when it comes to what our resolution refers to, that is, questions about carbon cycles, maintaining the carbon stock of the forest, etc., we have not included it in the voluntary agreement. So this is completely unregulated at this point in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143747	Then I have to be sure if I understand what Enhedslisten is really up to, because we can discuss whether we think the trade agreement is enough, whether it would be enough, by the way, if it were the one we had in the long term and how much time we need this. I think that what is positive about the industry making an agreement is precisely trying to close that gap. For Mr. Per Clausen is absolutely right that we do not have an agreement at EU level, and indeed we have also been told that it is not intended to do so. This should not prevent us from pushing, but it is important that, when we do not have an agreement, we have something else to replace. And there the industry has made an agreement, and if that is what we are going to discuss in relation to whether it is tight enough and ambitious enough, then we can easily do so, but that is not what Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution proposes. It's just making a different kind of counting system, if you want, i.e. a life cycle analysis on each of these biomass products.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143843	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143846	It is true that Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution is about ensuring that we get a correct inventory of that CO2 and that can be seen as uncomfortable, because that means that our CO2 doesn't change anything about reality, so the climate is kind of indifferent to the method of inventory. I'm just gonna ask sir. Jens Joel, if he does not agree with me that it would be a good step towards being able to go ahead with regulation if you had an estimate of the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310143923	Well, I find it relatively difficult to counter-argument that when you break things up, it has to be as close to what's correct as possible. Furthermore, I am not sure that I fully agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the method currently being used is incorrect. Because what you are doing is simply putting it up somewhere else in the system, that is not when it is burned, but where it is, if you may say so, cultivated or provided. Then, of course, we can discuss what control we have about the countries from which we import, actually also replant, whether they actually count on whether they are even included in the Kyoto Protocol. And all those things are, of course, relevant criteria to discuss, in terms of what we can call sustainable, but you can't say that just because there are some that are bad at counting, we have to change the inventory method. Then perhaps we should say that then we will not trade with the people who do not count the things they actually emit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144018	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144025	I would like to begin by thanking the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution. It is always worth a discussion whether the way in which CO2 is set up is right, so it is of course important that something that is so crucial is properly set up. So thank you to the Enhedslisten for putting that discussion to debate. It may well be said that this is a rather theoretical discussion, but it is particularly interesting if you care a lot about it here with CO2 2 In the Danish People's Party we have the view that Denmark's emissions are infinitely small in a global perspective, and that, as a modified calculation method for CO2 So what the resolution here could change if it was adopted are marginals, and therefore we really do not see any reason to support the resolution. It is, of course, true that when it is so important for the government and the left to have a CO2 I am afraid that if this resolution were implemented and the government was instructed to change methods of calculation and thus to include CO2 I would think that the government would start planning even more wind turbines than it already is, and thus Denmark would have a more expensive energy policy and more expensive power than we already have. We in the Danish People's Party think this would be a damaging development, and therefore we will not burden the government with having to change the method of calculation. We think that, out of two alternatives, the current method of calculation is perhaps the least burdensome for our energy policy and our society at all. That is why we are giving the government a helping hand here by saying no to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144321	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144331	The Radical Left wants a future that is independent of coal and oil. Wind power is going to be a large part of our conversion along with biomass. Biomass is only climate-friendly if the wood that is felled and burned is replaced by new trees that grow up and suck CO2 If you just burn off rainforest wood, for example, it doesn't give much in CO2 and that is why we in the Radical Left are happy with the agreement that the industry itself has made about what it means to use sustainable biomass. The government has tried to get a similar arrangement at EU level. We have not yet succeeded, but we will continue to work on it. The Enhedslisten proposes with this motion for a resolution to make further calculations of CO2 we see no reason for that. Denmark uses the calculation methods that the United Nations and the European Union have put together, and we believe that it makes the most sense to stick to that. That is why we are voting against the resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144443	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144447	After all, there is nothing new about the radical Left being very fond of the common methods of calculation. It doesn't really matter how misleading they are, even when they can lead to the Liberal Alliance's policy being sound, it's still the usual ones, and we use them. But I'm just gonna ask sir. Mr Andreas Steenberg, if he does not agree with me, that regardless of methods of calculation, CO2 emissions are actually being emitted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144523	I fully agree with that. The whole concept of biomass being green and climate friendly is that the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144535	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144539	But Mr. Andreas Steenberg did not see anything suggesting that we need to make an increased effort to sort this out, when it is quite frankly shown by the agreement that the Danish industry has made in this area, that exactly what is about the debt of CO2 One does not actually know when this is going to be in balance again, and during that period there may have been quite a lot of global warming, which I agree with Mr Steenberg. Andreas Steenberg in that it's really important to get to grips with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144616	I have to admit, I don't have that kind of detail in that deal. However, what I do have as a basic position is that when Danish electricity-producing companies have to buy biomass, it makes very good sense that there is a global market. And that is why I think it makes the most sense to stick to the methods of calculation that apply in the European Union and that have also been looked at in the United Nations, rather than making some that apply separately to Denmark. For then I am afraid that the green transition will just be more expensive because we have some special rules and requirements in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144649	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Steen Gade, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310144659	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the debate on an issue which, at least when we go down in the technical field, can be a little difficult to understand, but that does not mean that it is not important. The first thing I want to say is that there has often been some doubt as to whether we have the right figures in Denmark. Well, we actually have two figures in Denmark. We have the figure we report to the Climate Secretariat and it follows the internationally agreed rules on CO2 It is possible to look up in Denmark's Statistics, and it is clear that it is higher because every time you burn, even when you burn biofuels, there is CO2 That is why it is actually higher. Then comes the next interesting discussion, namely the extent to which what you are passionate about fits in with the CO2 that is where we have the discussion and, as I think the Minister mentioned, some analyses have already been made of how different types of biofuels work. And they have very different effects. One of the reasons why SF recommends saying to district heating plants that if you really want to be CO 2 gas, to something else, not be a good idea CO 2 That would CO 2 We know about different types of fuels, how the differences are. There is also a difference in whether it is produced in Denmark and where one can argue in one way or whether it is from other places, as Mr. Jens Joel mentioned it. That is why sustainability criteria are needed for this. We have always supported sustainability criteria. We also need international sustainability criteria. It is just a bit awkward, to put it in Jutland, that the European Commission has said that it is far too far in the future. Where I think we need to actually equip our knowledge and our method is something that builds on the trade agreement. I mean, how could it be better, how could you work on something that is more right-wing, you could say, than the industry agreement? After all, you can't just say that you plant as much forest as you cut. That's not how the piano plays. It takes many years before it sucks up just as much, so it's something like... the number of hectares that you plant more than what you fell to take that part of the calculation, and there are many other parts, just as sustainability criteria for us are also about something other than energy. But my call is to the government: let us then work to see how we can actually develop this further so that it becomes as true as possible. This was something that could be done on the Danish side, too, in order to influence the EU into sustainability criteria. The last thing I want to say is that this is quite a part of the Danish conversion process, and that is where we have so much biomass in the next few years. We have done so because it is a sensible way of exploiting the capacity that we have in power stations when we dismantle coal and instead take biomass. This is a sensible move, but if you ask me sometime sometime in the future, once we have reached 2030, I think I will say that we have to invest in the fact that our biomass is considerably smaller, that it is not based on imported biomass, it is largely based on its own, but in my opinion increased use of biomass, and we have been very good at selecting which biomass is good at what things and where they should be used, and where we may not be using them. After all, the Enhedslisten's proposals address some of these discussions. On the other hand, I do not think it is precisely in relation to being the answer. But it was a fairly positive statement to enter into the discussion on these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145202	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145209	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance believes that this is a relevant debate that the Enhedslisten is setting up here. If you agree with an energy policy regime that operates with certain figures for CO2 we should remember that the whole premise for our energy policy and for the energy conciliation is of course that you have to reach a certain figure at a certain time. Imagine how many times the arguments in this energy policy alone have been about us missing so much as a percentage to get some number; that is, the numbers get like their own magic. And that's why it's incredibly thought-provoking if you can't count on those numbers. It is, of course, beyond doubt that the logging and processing of biomass for wood pellets or other and transport forms a large part of the energy content of the biomass. In the Engineer you can read that it is probably up to 10%. In addition, the so-called carbon debt, which is not included, is understood as the period between the release of CO2 by biomass, which has also been mentioned by several of the rapporteurs. In other words, today we are spending billions of dollars on converting our power plants from coal and gas into biomass, while at the same time we are adding more CO2 These huge changes in the power plant sector that we are now undergoing are due to our entire system of subsidies and levies. We all know that one third of the power plants have turned the keys, among other things. because of all the much more wind we've got in with subsidies. I'd like to say it again: Isolatedly there will be more CO2 so for the next 10-20 years, we'll worsen global warming due to more CO2 It's not until 30-40 years, when new trees are planted... some say up to 100-150 years... and this carbon debt has been taken out, that we can theoretically argue that the investments made are sustainable, and that is therefore very large investments we are talking about. And then we haven't even talked about this ILUC Indian Land Use Change, as it's probably called where the situation is, that there are also indirect effects of this. Because if you push people away from places where they grow their crops and you have to include forest areas, you can indirectly help prevent a smaller CO2 too. So you have to put it that it is up to a bureaucratic definition, whether you are a good person or a bad person, whether you are doing something good or something bad. I think that this clearly shows that we must be careful to manage developments in this area unilaterally, as long as this means that taxpayers or consumers have to pay for the party. People must do exactly what they want, with the motives that drive them, for their own money. And if they think they're gonna be okay with something they each find sustainable, then peace with it. But when we do these calculations from in here, they must also be on a professional basis, otherwise it will be embarrassing. As you know, we do not think that politicians should select certain technologies which receive certain support at certain times and in specified quantities, as the energy agreement is built up. This should be dealt with much more by the market, for example. in some procurement situations that we see in England. But if you do these things, it must be proper and honest and be linked to reality, because that is the whole premise of energy policy. So we actually think that this is a relevant issue that Enhedslisten has addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145706	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Per Clausen. No, there was a brief comment. It came a little late, but it's gonna be okay anyway. We're doing a little bit for the information of the Members of Parliament. Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145720	In the end, I thought I heard Mr. Villum Christensen says we should do like England and build on the market. I just got a little confused. First of all, I would like to know if it is true about England that that was it, sir. Villum Christensen said. As I know, the support for wind turbines is and I think it makes sense for them to build over there something bigger than the one we're building for here in the country. The next thing I know is that I don't know if Mr. Knox... Villum Christensen is aware that nuclear power in England must be financed through a huge state subsidy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145801	I do not know exactly how to understand the question, but when I mentioned England, it was as an example of a country which has a different way of dealing with it and which does not identify certain technologies to the same extent if one wants to achieve a CO2 reduction target.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145814	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145817	I find it difficult to recognize in England in that description, because England has just decided that you need a-power. They have a power, but they have to renew it and build a lot of new nuclear power plants. Then many people have thought that a-power might provide very cheap power, but there they found out in England and, by the way, Cameron chose that it should be on the market conditions that no one would build on market conditions. No one wants to build nuclear power stations on market conditions, so they have, exceptionally, had to obtain approval from the European Commission to grant State aid for nuclear power. It may be easy to say such things, i.e. not to control. The fact is that you have to steer wisely rather than stupidly, and in my opinion there is a lot in England that is being run really stupidly. But it is not true that they do not receive State aid. They get a lot of state aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310145917	Now I have not said that there is no state aid in England; I have just said that in England there is a situation where CO2 targets are set more effectively. That is what makes sense. We have seen plenty of examples of how we learn from in here that something is good at a certain time. Then it gets caught up in technology, and then the grant system burns down. You can just see with the PV case, which has been up three times, where it went far, much faster than what you had imagined, just a few months after the energy settlement was adopted. This is all the thinking I think is important. We do not know which technologies are overtaking, because as soon as we grant more subsidies to some, we exclude something else that might be very good in the future. That's the point of view I'd like to put under.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150015	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150019	I actually took the floor at the end because I am very uncertain about what the Liberal Alliance really thinks about this resolution. So we could perhaps clarify whether we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150029	We support this bill on the grounds that a regime has been chosen which says that it is CO2 Very many arguments in here have been about a certain figure to be reached at a certain point in time. That figure can then be called into question in a very basic way, as I see it, because there are a lot of things that have not been included, and that is what scientific commissioners say, so there is no doubt that we are miscalculating. Once that regime has been adopted, I think that we should do it properly, because otherwise we are a laughing stock for our own rhetoric. So yes, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150107	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150110	Then I understand that the Liberal Alliance is out to give a great deal of help to the rest of us, because we want to spend money or energy or something to calculate it correctly alone, with the aim of not looking wrong. Well, sir. Villum Christensen, if you want a proper inventory of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150137	I think that whatever you do, it must always be based on a professional and proper basis. If, as in this case, we can see that there is no proper professional basis and if the whole essence of the way we have built up energy policy is that we have to achieve something specific at certain times, as I have said sometimes, then we should be extra critical. I think the Danish People's Party also mentioned it. It is, of course, a crucial steering tool, and then it doesn't help anything that we play up to a goal where you can move the goalposts all the time. Then we'll be a laughing stock for our own method. When I vote in favour of this proposal, it is actually to say that when we do something, it has to be done professionally. Otherwise, we're gonna be ridiculous.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150223	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150225	Finally, I was a little surprised by the rapporteur's speech, so I just need to be absolutely sure of something before we leave. The Enhedslisten's proposal for a new inventory method is, as the rapporteur can see from the material, linked to a series of very, very costly measures to make this CO2 so I have to be absolutely sure whether it is the Liberal Alliance's policy to work for such an inventory, according to Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150311	In general, I think you should work properly with the things you're dealing with, and when we know but as long as we run it as rigidly as we do, after certain percentages how many times there have been no percentages mentioned up here from this platform, and that you have to reach something at a certain point in time it has been like the argument in itself that we have to reach a certain number. So I wouldn't mind the reality, I would have said. That is actually why I say it is important that when you do something you do it properly. Otherwise, you have to think of a whole other way of doing it, and I have argued that we should do it in a whole different way, but now we have chosen this method.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150354	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150357	So, this is such an overall form of inventory, where we can safely say in a less bureaucratic way, we can follow CO2 in particular. It has been chosen on the basis of some considerations that there is also a reality in relation to economic consequences. So I'm just asking again just to be absolutely sure: the Liberal Alliance doesn't stand for this policy, that is, it doesn't support this proposal that Enhedslisten makes, that we should use this measurement method in the future, with the economic consequences of it. Really?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150435	A great deal of energy policy is being carried in here, which is symbolically carried. We are constantly talking about the fact that now we have to reduce CO2 We are pursuing politics as if we were living on a desert island. I don't think that's professionally right. I would like to repeat that if you do something that you know is wrong, you have to change it and do it properly. You can't just do it because it's easier to figure out and say it's wrong, but it's easy to figure out, and then we keep doing it. That is the view I would like to express to the Enhedslisten. You have done a very good job here. Every time I drill into the scientific reports, I can see that they say exactly what Enhedslisten says, and I would like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150518	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten, rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310150528	I have to thank you for the support of the Liberal Alliance. I have learned in politics that one should not be sad if someone wants to vote in favour of one's proposals, even if their motives are bad, because the crucial thing is to get things adopted. So thank you to the Liberal Alliance for your support. However, I would just like to make a few comments on the debate on free market forces and liberalism and such things in the field of energy. I understand that an important point for the Liberal Alliance is that we must constantly invest in what is the cheapest. This means switching from windmills to solar energy to oil, so that it is one day and the other day. Now there is one challenge, when we talk about investments in energy installations, that they run for really, very many years afterwards. So you are still hanging on to the decision for a few years when it has been taken, and perhaps it could be a question of whether it should be the market price one day on one form of energy compared with the other, which determines which way you go also if you have an idea that you should actually end up having a combination of energy sources that makes you have a certain security of supply. There is probably a reason why in most countries market forces have been abandoned as the only one controlling energy supply. I would also just like to say that, in a situation where we know that nuclear power is getting a lot of state aid, where fossil fuels are getting a lot of state aid, and where the environmental impact of the use and extraction of these forms of energy is not in any way burdening the price. This is something that some of those who are researching on this kind of thing call a mistake, a market error and as long as nothing is done to intervene against them, it is probably a bit in addition to talking about that what should be the alternative to our way of conducting energy policy in Denmark should be to leave it to the market. However, on our motion for a resolution, it is clear that our motion for a resolution is based on a long-standing debate on the use of biomass. We should not be so many years back in time before it was considered to be a very controversial point of view when it was said that using biomass was not the same as being CO2 there, I think, and I agree with Mr Tugendhat. Villum Christensen in that no matter what reports and theses are dug down these days, it is a realization that it is so that there is CO 2 It is so quite different, depending on what kind of biomass it is, and it is quite dependent on how to re-establish, for example. the forests from which the biomass used comes. However, in the trade agreement that has been made here in Denmark, which contains a number of good and sensible initiatives that make the use of biomass more sustainable than if one had not done so, there is no doubt at all that it is also very clear that when one comes to the points about carbon debt and how long something has been burned off until it has been restored, one has to sort out the arms and legs and say that we do not really have that; we may hope to get it sometime, but we do not have it. Of course, this is a huge challenge. It can be said that it is difficult to find biomass which, in terms of carbon debt and such things, comes close to coal and oil and gas; that is a completely different matter; there are millions of years of debt. The debt is so high that it is just a pure expense because nothing goes the opposite way. When we have tabled this resolution, it is really because we think it is really important to have a discussion on how to include the real burden of biomass and various forms of biomass in the priorities we are setting. Because you don't have to do the maths just to make them; of course you have to make them because they have to be used for something. And it is clear that it is also our view that a serious analysis of this will show that there are other forms of energy which are clearly more positive in terms of countering global warming than the use of biomass, even if we then work seriously to reduce CO2 What we consider to be absolutely crucial in terms of the carbon cycle is how long it takes, from a biomass source to a new biomass; how many years it takes, and what consequences it will have for global warming, is that we are in a phase now, where we may not just say that it is equal in that way, just as we have a zero effect in CO2 For what is at least a very significant part of the research and discussion that is going on, is precisely about the fact that we need a very rapid slow-down in the emissions of CO2 It is therefore, in our view, really, very important to do so. I understand the debate, and I think it is gratifying, after all, that most or all of us really recognise that we are dealing here with a challenge that is worth dealing with if we believe that global warming is a real challenge and threat. It is clear that if, as the Danish People's Party, you think that with global warming there is either something that has been invented, something that people have no influence on, or at least something that we here in Denmark are well enough one of the countries that per. citizen has the largest CO2 I'm pretty much in on that. In addition, however, I understood that there was at least a positive attitude to engage in some discussions on how we can use some of the wishes for calculations etc. that Enhedslisten has put forward here. We will work to see, in the further work of the committee, whether we cannot use the consensus that this is a really existing problem and a really existing challenge, to go further, both in terms of discussing how we can formulate some more precise requirements, in relation to what we will accept from biomass burning in Denmark, but of course also to support and strengthen the heroic efforts of the Danish government at both EU and global level to create better agreements and better rules than what we have today, of course. So in those words, I hope that we can get constructive work on this in committee. I think sir... Steen Gade suggested in his speech that some of these things may well be quite complex, and I would say that with my normal reluctance to go into detail, it is also with some concern that I have embarked on this motion for a resolution. But on the other hand, we also have to discuss things, even though they are difficult and complex, and then it can be said that some of the discussions are useful, I think, in the continuing work of the committee on this motion for a resolution. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310151247	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310151251	Thank you. I understand from the authors that the premise for tabling the motion for a resolution is that Enhedslisten believes that it is the wrong method of calculating CO2 but does Enhedslisten also believe that it is a method that the government chooses more or less consciously for Denmark's CO2 So does Enhedslisten believe that the government has chosen this wrong method to embellish the result?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310151323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310151332	I think it has to be said that it is with this method of calculation, as with most other bad methods of calculation, that it has been taken over by the previous government. Then it must also be said that this is the method of calculation used internationally, so there is no doubt that it is reasonable to use this method when it comes to international negotiations, etc. But it is true that when, for example, you get to work. talking about a CO2 by 2020, if you use the method of calculation that we present, you would reach another number, and that figure would be less beautiful. Mr. Mikkel Dencker is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310151401	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Mikkel Dencker another comment? Then we thank the rapporteur and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310151418	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310151437	Thank you for that, President. Today we are discussing L 150, which is a proposal to set up a new subsidy scheme to facilitate payment of PSOs in companies with a high electricity consumption. The bill implements parts of the agreement on the roll-back of the security of supply tax, etc. and relaxations of the PSO, which the government together with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten entered into on 14 July 2014. That is why, of course, the Left supports the proposal. However, we must agree that, if there is any possibility of this being done via the EU, we must have Danish horticulturalists thinking into this scheme, which we expect the government to work hard on. Specifically, it is proposed that a grant pool of 185 million be set up. kr. per years in the period 2015-2020, where eligible undertakings may receive partial coverage for the company's payment to PRS for electricity. The main objective is to ensure, on the one hand, that electricity-intensive enterprises are not burdened to the same extent by the PSP, which weakens their competitiveness, and, on the other hand, to promote energy efficiency in electricity-intensive enterprises. The Left has long said that there is a need to lighten energy taxes in order to create more growth and more jobs, as the Danish energy taxes are some of the world's highest and are approx. 80% above the EU average. That's why it's a growth killer. In particular, the PRS tax has contributed to the increase in Danish production and has constituted a significant obstacle to growth, particularly in the industrial and manufacturing industries. It is therefore gratifying that the government has agreed to this proposal and now intends to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310151645	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310151659	Thank you. This bill is simply part of finding a balance between maintaining an ambitious green transition and ensuring that we do not impair Danish competitiveness, so that some of the jobs that are most vulnerable move out of the country. That is why last year the government parties reached a broad agreement in the Folketing on a growth package. One of the elements of it is what we are dealing with now, namely a special relaxation for the most energy-intensive companies, in other words some of those who pay the highest electricity bills. And that is, of course, the one aim of the bill. The second aim of the draft law is to ensure that when you make it cheaper to use electricity and thereby improve competitiveness, at least on paper there is an incentive to use more electricity. And that is why, of course, we want to ensure that when we lower the price of pollution, whether you want to, or on electricity consumption, we also ensure that we are in a dialogue with companies on how they can optimise and how they can save as much as possible. I also believe that for the companies that experience shows that this is also a good long-term investment, because the best electricity is the one that has been saved. That is why we are proposing the creation of a new subsidy scheme to ease the PSO payments for these electricity-intensive companies and, so to speak, to replace the existing exemption or relief for those companies that used more than 100 GWh. There's a pool over the next 5 years of 185 million. kr., and it is of course clear that we have also made some calculations on how large a grant part it will be, and it is expected to be in the order of 7 øre per. kWh. But of course it will also be a question of exactly how many people are looking for this support. However, I would like to say that it is a wider circle of companies that benefit from this than those that have benefited from the special aid scheme for the very energy-intensive companies in the past. And when we expand the circle, we divide. to what kind of companies in general are experiencing competition on the EU market on the international market, and that is why, of course, it is also the common EU legislation that is the starting point. In other words, the competitive professions that we have at home are, to a very large extent, also those that are competitive in other EU countries. And in the European Union, it has been said that there are some companies here, some industries that are particularly hard hit, and that we need to do something extra to help. So that's what we're doing with this bill. I believe that this will lead us to retain more jobs; that we will ensure better opportunities for companies to run their work in Denmark, while at the same time maintaining an ambitious energy saving effort and reaping the fruits that are reaping.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310152014	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310152023	As the two previous rapporteurs mentioned, the draft law here is the implementation of part of the growth plan for 2014. It is an agreement that was concluded in July last year between almost all parties here in the Danish Parliament and the government... only the Conservative and Liberal Alliance are not included. That is why I do not think I am surprising anyone by saying that the Danish People's Party naturally supports the bill here. I would say that in the Danish People's Party we have been worried for quite a number of years and have not failed to express our concern about the energy policy that has been carried out and the consequences it has for the economy. One of our criticisms has been that Danish electricity is expensive compared to that of other countries, which is why it is a burden on business, especially those companies that have high electricity consumption, that they have to take off the expensive Danish electricity when competing with foreign companies that have a lower electricity bill. That is why it was our intention, when we went into these negotiations last summer, to set up a system to reduce electricity charges for those companies that use the most electricity. It is very gratifying that we have succeeded, and we would like to thank the other parties involved in the agreement and the government for having responded to us in this area. I would also like to thank the government and acknowledge that the government has finally admitted, with the agreement here, that the energy policy pursued is a burden on Danish industry, that it is something that costs competitiveness and that it is ultimately something that costs jobs. It has to be said that this is the case, and it is an admission of this, when you make an agreement with so many parties, which has to reduce energy taxes for those companies that consume the most energy. It is good that we have put it in place, and in the Danish People's Party we intend to continue working in this direction. We think it is unreasonable for our jobs, our businesses to be burdened with the energy policy that has been implemented, so this is a good example of what can be achieved by results and we hope that we can deliver more results in the future. As I said, the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310152257	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310152304	Last spring we discussed the so-called PRS tax's impact on Danish companies' ability to create jobs in Denmark. The government listened, and in our spring growth project we played out by relaxing the so-called PSO tax for Danish companies that use particularly much power for their production. We had an agreement on this with all the parties of the Folketing, and we are very pleased about that. Since the crisis began, Denmark has lost over 200,000 jobs in industry. It has created what some call Outskirtsdanmark, because a great many of the jobs we have lost in industry were in rural areas. The common thread of the government's economic policy with reforms and with the growth agreement from this summer is that it must again pay off to have industry in Denmark and create more jobs in industry. In fact, according to the Radical Left, this is the very best rural policy one can pursue. The easing of the so-called PSO tax is one of the measures, and the bill here translates that part of the growth agreement from last year. The bill means that electricity-intensive companies can receive subsidies for their PSO payments, in exchange for agreeing to energy efficiency improvements. In total, this is a relief of 185 million. kr. The Radical Left supports this relaxation for the most energy-intensive companies, and that is why we say yes to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310152448	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Steen Gade as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310152455	Thank you. SF also supports the bill here, which is part of an agreement. I would just like to say a few words about the burden of our energy policy on business, which has been talked about. I still think it is quite wrong to produce it as if the PRS is just a tax. After all, we know that, in relation to what is called clean energy taxes, we are at the EU's minimum level. We simply cannot go down any further in relation to business. But then there is the PRS, and the paradox of it is that when the energy price is low, it is high to guarantee a payment to those who invest in the energy plants that we want to have a certain funding. When the energy price is high, it's small. But right now the energy price is low, i.e. the PSO is high, and we have taken that into account, among other things with this proposal. And, like others, I would like to say that it is a proposal that is about providing a grant pool, but also that there is an agreement to introduce energy efficiency improvements. From our point of view, this is a quite reasonable model in which we are both responsible for the necessary competition concerns for energy-intensive companies and at the same time helping them to make investments so that not only this year, but in the long term, they save energy and thus also save money and thus improve their competitive edge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310152700	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310152706	It is, in fact, with particular pleasure that Enhedslisten supports this bill, and it is because it is actually a very wise and very sensible legislative proposal. In fact, it would be desirable for the system which is being set up here with aid for very energy-using companies to pay electricity bills, combined with requiring them to reduce their energy consumption, to be a much larger system. Because this is the right way to deal with the challenge that very energy-intensive companies face, on the one hand to say that we can help them pay this bill for a period of time; on the other hand, it is very important that we then ensure that there is still a focus on reducing energy consumption, both for the sake of nature and the environment and for the sake of the competitiveness of companies in the longer term. This proposal is also precisely about what Enhedslisten said last spring, when the whole debate on the PRS tax arose in relation to that was the way to go. And one should also go that way because spending millions and billions of dollars on implementing a general reduction in the PRS tax in relation to companies where electricity costs, energy costs, mean very little in relation to their total costs, and which, after all, did not really stand in a competitive position compared to other parts of the world or in Europe because of energy prices, but possibly because of something else, was a really stupid idea. But this proposal is, in fact, a very good and very sensible proposal; it is a sensible way of spending the money. It also reminds us a little of some of the measures taken by the then SR government with the support of Enhedslisten back in the 1990s. So it's good and real politics that Enhedslisten likes, and that's why we're really, really happy about this bill. It is true, then, that this should be seen in the context of the fact that much more money was then also spent on a general reduction in the PSO tax. I would just like to say that when it was possible to get Enhedslisten to accept the last year, it was not least because the government had been so foresightful that a growth package with the right wing had been made in the year in advance, as far back as 2013, when it was very many of the initiatives that would have been put into effect that had not been possible to do anything about. Among other things: As far back as 2013, we had a rescue plan for Danish horticulture, which was against EU rules. Then one was made again in 2014, which was also against EU rules, and in this way it is here to make packages and pools for Danish gardeners, after all, a great way to ensure that you have funding for other more or less wise initiatives afterwards, because apparently you always hit a scheme that is EU-unlawful when it comes to gardeners. You can philosophize that about what might be the reason, but that is the way it is. At least that's an experience. I would just like to say that where we may have been a little hesitant and a little sad when we adopted the general reduction in the PSO, but said that we could accept it because it was partly financed by some relatively modest restrictions on the move to renewable energy and, on the other hand, was financed by the industry itself in relation to other aid schemes which had either not come into being or which were diluted in connection with this, we have to say quite clearly that the proposal here is a clear continuation of how the Enhedslisten believes energy policy should be carried on to companies, namely that we make demands, have expectations and desires that they make an effort, but are also prepared to help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310153050	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310153051	Thank you. The growth package from last summer was about the roll-back of the security of supply tax and then this reduction in the PSO tax. From the outset, the Liberal Alliance has been opposed to the fire tax, as it was also called, as first proposed by the VK Government, which later entered as the basis for financing the Energy Agreement of March 2012. It became a bureaucratic monster, and thanks for being picked off the table, even though it took a very long time for several ministers to scratch their hair. That's why it became too difficult a birth, you might say. I remember Holger K. Nielsen saying that he was falling out of the chair when he presented the bill as tax minister. We have also been critical of the second main element of funding, namely the PRS tax, which means that when the electricity price falls on the market, it will be an advantage for our competitors, because it will rise for Danish companies and for the same reason, because the windmills will get a fixed price regardless of the market and the PRS will then fill out the gap, as Mr. Steen Gade already mentioned. And that's the absurdity of it. However, we have so wisely arranged that the PRS tax now surpasses any performance that the conciliation parties had just three years ago. If we turn the time back to then, the argument was that this energy agreement is going to be expensive, but if we do nothing, it will be even more expensive because the price of fossil fuels is going to rise. I remember Martin Lidegaard saying that many times. Realities have now caught up with this point of view, and the PRS tax now costs what is equivalent to a couple of super hospitals every year. We naturally welcome any relaxation in this tragic area of Danish business. The comedy also comes from the fact that this is now the second time that the government has reduced the PRS tax in order to get more growth and more jobs, as it says. When I think of how many times energy policy debates have resulted in the many new jobs that the energy conciliation has provided, then we will have both more jobs when the PRS tax is raised, as when we adopted the energy conciliation, and again when it is put in place. We have seen that here today some time ago. It is purely magical policy with energy policy in that way. But we think that what has been set in motion here is a good thing, namely that we have reduced the costs of energy-intensive companies, so therefore thumbs up on the part of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310153350	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last one in the series of speeches is sir. Mike Legarth, who isn't here. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310153403	Thank you. Let me thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. As has been shown, the draft law is part of the execution of parts of the agreement on the roll-back of FSA, etc. and facilitations of the PSO concluded between the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten on 14 July 2014. In addition, the proposal provides for the abolition of an ex-ante relaxation of the PSO payment for companies with electricity consumption of more than 100 GWh per year. I am pleased that the bill allows us to relax the PSO payments for the companies most affected by a high PSO, thereby directly strengthening their competitiveness without relaxing our ambitions for an ever greener and more energy-efficient business. The bill means that electricity-intensive companies can receive subsidies for part of their payments to PRS, against the conclusion of agreements on energy efficiency improvements with the Danish Energy Agency. And with the bill, 68 industries will be eligible. These are the sectors that the European Commission assesses are trade- and electricity-intensive to such an extent that it may be appropriate to relax their PSO payments. In Denmark there are estimated to be companies in the vast majority of these 68 sectors. The agreement provided for 185 million. kr. a year. They are estimated to be able to ease the company's PSO payments by up to 7 øre per year. kWh. However, as you know, as the scheme has not entered into force at the end of the year, a higher subsidy will be granted in 2015 in order to maximise the flow of the pool. As indicated, the scheme must be approved by the European Commission before it can enter into force. My ministry is already discussing the proposal with the European Commission, and it is currently the assessment that a state aid authorisation will be available in spring 2015 so that the scheme can enter into force immediately after the Parliament has adopted the bill. The draft law also repeals the 100 GWh scheme, under which companies with electricity consumption above 100 GWh are exempted from payment of the RES share of the PSO charge for electricity consumption above 100 GWh per year. This is because the European Commission has adopted new guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy for the period 2014-2020, applicable from 1 July 2014. It is a requirement here that existing State aid schemes should be adapted to the new guidelines. Since it is considered that the existing relief cannot be continued under the new rules, it is proposed that the 100 GWh concession be abolished at the same time as the State grant scheme for electricity-intensive enterprises enters into force. In 2014, only three companies benefited from the relief under the 100 GWh scheme and these three companies will all be eligible in the new grant scheme of the draft law. I have taken note of the various comments made by the rapporteurs, including the call by the Left that we should do our utmost to ensure that the agreed support for horticulture can be implemented. We're completely in line with that. I welcome the great interest that Things has expressed in the draft law, and I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building. With these comments, I would like to ask for the bill to continue to be dealt with in a friendly manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310153720	There are no brief comments and no others have asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310153739	The debate is open. The first one in the series of speeches is sir. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310153755	Thank you for that, President. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. First of all, I would like to say that the Left supports the overall intention of introducing the wholesale model. We would very much like to contribute to greater transparency in the electricity market, but we can clearly see that it has been difficult for the government to agree with itself on how this task should be carried out in practice. This is also why the wholesale model has been as delayed as it is. The disagreement within the government between at least the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Climate and Energy has been described in the press, and it is of course a problem that the government in such a case has spent whole and half years finding a solution with itself. That is highly unsatisfactory. In addition, the Ministry of Finance seems to have pushed the wholesale model further, so the implementation has gone as far as 2016, and this is because, as the draft law shows, the government can see that the one-time shift in liquidity that the change entails is enough to derail the state's economy in relation to the requirements of the EU stability and growth package. It is obviously problematic that we have a government that is pushing state budgets to such an extent that there is not even a room for manoeuvre in implementing legislation that has otherwise been announced a year in advance. There is simply not enough room in the treasury of the Minister of Finance for the government to meet its obligations on something as specific as the electricity market. One can only guess what other decisions have been postponed for the same reason, but as a Leftman one can only support the fact that there is at least a focus on not driving us all the way over the edge. But it is not free with this type of start-up policy, where both state and private energy companies have set big processes in motion to be ready for the announced date. If you then link it to the government running the state budget completely on the edge of the responsible, along with the lack of decision-making power within the government, then we have the result that suddenly you have to change again, again and postpone the wholesale model. It has its price and it is written in the impact assessment of the bill. Here it appears on page 11 that Danish consumers have to pay 18 million. kr. extra to Energinet.dk, only because the government has messed up. In addition, there is an unspecified bill from private operators, which is estimated to be over 70 million. kr. I think it is a high price to pay for the government's slowness and lack of financial responsibility. And I do not remember the Finance Minister saying at the time of the conclusion of the Finance Act that it drove right to the edge of the person responsible and that electricity customers therefore had to pay more than 80 million. kr. extra. It is a massive extra bill that the government has created, and one should not start to count on how many Danes have to pay taxes for no use in the world. However, if we ignore the government's costly delay in the process, the aim is to create a proper framework for the wholesale model. Here is set aside for the change that we are going to talk about in this and the following bill that the Treasury has estimated that the wholesale model in its thought form with the customer relationship, which was at the disposal of the electricity dealer, who then handled everyone else, i.e. SKAT and the network companies and Energinet.dk, now needs to be changed. This is due to the bankruptcy risk which the authorities consider to be linked to the electricity traders and which makes SKAT therefore prefer to settle via the network operators. When you choose that path, it is of course crucial that it does not open up any discrimination against the actors involved, and that is one of the things that the Left wants to look at and which I understand from the Minister he will also look at. Generally speaking, we need to have a look at how much we burden market players with cumbersome procedures and cumbersome processes. However, as this is primarily due to the changes that SKAT has wanted, I will save the gunpowder to the tax minister, who hopefully is ready to make an effort to make the wholesale model more edible for others than SKAT. Given that the bill of millions of kroner for electricity customers has already been written by the government as a direct effect of the government's handling of the wholesale model and the Finance Act, it is difficult to change. I can only regret that this is the case, but the very essence of the legislative proposal, namely that we need a wholesale model that works and improves the electricity market, is a positive view. That is why the Left is also in favour of the amendments contained in this bill and we look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154308	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154311	I understand that the Left is voting in favour of this bill because it wants the wholesale model to be introduced, but it has, of course, been adopted. What the Left is voting for when you vote for this bill is postponing it. So the Left will vote in favour of all the accidents that Mr. Thomas Danielsen sketched out the electricity consumption in this country when you vote for this bill. You couldn't do that. Nor is it the responsibility of the Left for the government to have smudged so much with the financial conditions that there is a shortage of 1 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154341	The Left will have to vote in favour of postponing the wholesale model; we cannot impose the wholesale model. So we are forced to do so as part of the conciliation and agreement that we are in on a wholesale model in Denmark, which means that we will have increased competition in the electricity market, which will ensure cheaper energy. But that is why I have to regret that the process has been as long as it has been and has had the economic consequences for the Danes as it has had.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154408	Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154409	You want me to understand that, sir? Thomas Danielsen and the Left have sat and agreed to table this bill as a consequence of being part of an agreement on the wholesale model and that all that, sir. Thomas Danielsen now says about all the accidents that affect electricity consumption in this country is a consequence of agreements that the Left itself has entered into with the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154429	Well, the Left hasn't agreed that we should postpone the wholesale model. In the Left, we regret the need to postpone the wholesale model. We would have liked to see it implemented more quickly. But the Left is in favour of the wholesale model, and the Left is in favour of increased competition in the electricity market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154445	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154459	Thank you. I am not sure that I can spend as much time on this matter as the rapporteur of the Left. I therefore agree with what was said at the end, namely that it is a good thing that we have a wholesale model, that we have a competition in this area, that it means that consumers will probably get cheaper electricity prices. That is at least the idea because we are creating some competition. The part where I saw Mr. Per Clausen's remarks also seem to be rather unclear, why the Left feels forced into it, is, of course, about the postponement that has been mentioned, but also to adjust, so that we actually get the tax payments in the box, that we actually get the money, even now that we have private players that we can risk leaving the market. That is, of course, the adjustment that I consider to be relatively technical. We can discuss it today. That is not so much what I heard that was being discussed. I believe that it is important to guard against the loss that would otherwise be suffered, and that is why I think it makes sense to have a system now in place to calculate with the network companies. I also think it is sensible, as the Minister has indicated, to guard against how the network companies can recover any costs they may have if there are private operators leaving the market, who go bankrupt or in some way disappear, because this is the price of liberalisation. Hopefully, the gain will be that very few people will be exposed to that wreath of fate, and we will, in turn, have cheaper electricity prices. However, the Socialists support the proposal, just as we have supported the wholesale model. We think it is important that when you do this you do it properly, and that is why, of course, we are also involved in making the postponements necessary to put it properly in place and, moreover, ensure that no one is wearing their hair in the mailbox if some of the private players have to leave the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154655	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310154701	In the Danish People's Party, we are also pleased that the wholesale model was agreed three years ago between the parties that entered into the energy settlement, and the legislation followed very quickly and was adopted in June 2012. Since then, the government has informed the Conciliation Committee and, moreover, the Folketing that it has been necessary to postpone the entry into force of the wholesale model on the grounds that there are some IT problems. This is also what is being used to justify the fact that we now have to adopt this bill, which postpones the wholesale model to enter into force on 1 April 2016 • i.e. with approx. 11⁄2 years delay compared to the original roadmap. Sir. Thomas Danielsen from the Left said that there might also be other explanations behind this, namely that the government has had difficulty in complying with the EU budget requirements if the wholesale model was introduced as early as 2015, because the wholesale model contains a one-off loss of revenue of 1 billion. kr., which would then have to be included in the budget law for 2015, and thus you could get into carambola with the EU's budget requirements. It is not, of course, a reason used by the government itself, but one has been able to read in many places that there are quite a lot of people who have analyzed themselves to the extent that this was the case. I think so, too. But the reason used by the government here is that there are IT problems. I cannot disprove the fact that this is the case, so we must take it too well, because we cannot believe that the government is presenting information that is wrong. Therefore, we have to arm ourselves with patience and wait another six months for this wholesale model, which would like to give the Danes cheaper power. The cheaper flow is very good, and we welcome this from the Danish People's Party. We are also pleased that, with this amendment to the law, we will also find a sensible solution to how to deal with the risk of loss when it is other and smaller companies that have to charge electricity to the Treasury. A good model for this has been found, which we are also introducing with the law here. So we look forward to it. So in 13 months we will have the wholesale model, and we look forward to it, and then we hope there will be no need to postpone it further. Unfortunately, this is a pattern that the government is using, that is to say, to postpone all the unpleasant things until sometime after autumn 2015. Perhaps you can imagine why this is exactly the time when everything is being put off to, for example. also changes in the allowance area. But it may be that you can then postpone the problems, so there are some others who will have to solve them when the time comes. It was just a little suspicion I have, and maybe the government will disprove it. But I have to say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill here, we finally get our wholesale model, and all IT problems should be resolved in 13 months when it can enter into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155031	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next speaker is Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155039	The bill here postpones the introduction of the so-called wholesale model until April next year. Radical Left supports the wholesale model because we believe that it will ensure more competition in the electricity market and thus cheaper prices for Danes. It is therefore a pity that it is being postponed for a year. The background is a variety of technical problems in implementing an insurance scheme for tax payments by electricity trading companies to the State. We note that this can only be done next year, and we look forward to it being done there. The Radical Left has a desire to free network companies from losses if, for example, an electricity trading company goes bankrupt. After all, the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building has informed the conciliation circle that there will be an amendment from the Ministry about it. We appreciate that. That is why, overall, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155142	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Steen Gade as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155150	Thank you. The proposal is, after all, the implementation of the energy agreement's proposal that we should have a wholesale model, and it has also been agreed among the energy agreement's conciliation parties that we should do it this way. Having heard the speeches of some of my predecessors, it might sound as if it were not something we had agreed on, but let me not say anything other than that it is something we have all agreed on. And now we are all voting in the energy conciliation for this postponement and the amendment contained in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155235	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. Then it's mr. Per Clausen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155248	The whole idea of the proposal for the establishment of the wholesale model, which we quite rightly adopted a few years ago, is that now the cheaper electricity should be supplied to ordinary consumers, which the parties responsible for the original liberalisation of the electricity sector in Denmark have promised for years and which ordinary consumers have not received. The Enhedslisten voted in favour of this model from the point of view that, once there has been a comprehensive liberalisation of an area, it is also reasonable to try to ensure that there is some form of competition, since the alternative is really, really bad. We have also been able to see for a number of years how electricity prices for ordinary electricity consumers have been steadily increasing, while they have been decreasing for some of the large electricity consumers. The fact that we then hear the most about the difficulties and challenges and problems of the large electricity consumers is a completely different matter. But that is why we have originally supported this proposal. Now it is being delayed for a number of reasons. We have then chosen to take note of this and to state that this is the case. And when you think of how long ordinary electricity consumers have waited to be affected by the market's blessings in terms of cheaper electricity prices, they will manage to wait another year. Worse, if it turns out that some of the predictions that were actually presented in the analyses that were made before we passed this law do not last; that is to say, at first you will not see that energy prices are getting lower, but that you will probably see that they are getting a little higher and that they will then in a while be lower. So there may be many exciting challenges ahead in this process, which far surpasses the fact that today we are deciding whether we want to postpone it for a year for some mainly technical reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155445	Thank you, sir. Per Clausen. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155459	With the bill here, we must recognise that, although it is 11 years and three liberalisation packages since the start of a marketisation of this sector, it is still incredibly slow. Competition is almost non-existent, but it is indeed a pseudo-liberalisation that we have been subjected to. This risks getting the worst from all the worlds: the governing and the completely liberal, which cannot function because of bureaucracy and lack of transparency. One of the major breakthroughs should be the launch of the so-called wholesale model, which should constitute the pure cut-off, I think it was formulated in a complex world where the electricity trading company with one bill should be central to the consumer and with an opportunity to establish a more transparent market situation. It is now muddled, among other things. because the State is afraid of losing money and finds it difficult to organise a cheap and solidarity insurance scheme for those trading companies that can get into trouble and therefore cause a tax loss. It is, of course, the many billions in taxes that SKAT seems to be afraid of losing in the event of a company going bankrupt. There's a lot of money at stake here. This means, as I understand it, that this complex legislative proposal introduces very heavy invoicing principles in which the network companies, as natural monopolies and therefore with a lower risk of bankruptcy, have to carry out tax collections. There is a very long way to go for that clean cut, one might say, which should ensure the competition that can give both consumers and businesses cheaper power. If many of the heavy procedures alone are due to fear of loss, the charges could perhaps be charged above the tariffs. I do not know, but I find it difficult to really understand the reasons for the postponement. I also do not understand the need for a further postponement, if it is not just because the State is suffering a liquidity loss, as has been mentioned, because the charges in the new system are levied backwards, one has to understand. I guess it's better to say frankly that cash is missing and that's the real reason. It also seems a bit like an obstruction of a political desire for real liberalisation right back in 2012 that you pull the IT card, and then there are probably some who think about Amanda and registration and all that, and then you get quiet in the rooms. As things stand at present, we will not have a model that will ensure that monopolies are reduced in their task portfolio with a view to extending the electricity bill and customer service, thereby effectively sending out the necessary price and consumer signals, which characterise a well-functioning market system. We still have a special revenue framework for the network companies, for example. can be quite difficult to obtain assurance that a reduced portfolio of tasks will also result in a reduction in the revenue framework. Conversely, we can see from the consultation answers that there may also be some conversion costs in the new system that companies will not be able to finance. When you try to regulate such revenue, there will always be confusion, where the winner is the one who is best able to conceal the facts from the authorities. This is not a way to create a rich society. History has shown this over and over again. It is a pity, then, that in this sector we have to see so much liberalisation when, for example, we have to see liberalisation. in the telecommunications sector, how prices can work if the market is well functioning and the right framework is in place. I know that the TDC may still benefit from a partial monopoly on special services, but competition is at least visible in the day-to-day view of the telecommunications sector. For these reasons, we are critical of this bill, which we fear will result in a lot of new bureaucracy and very limited opportunities for you as a customer to find your way around this universe in a simple and transparent way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155937	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. Then it is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310155947	Thank you very much. I thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. After all, the draft law proposes that the wholesale model be adjusted and that the wholesale model and the delivery obligation be postponed until 1 April 2016. The purpose of the wholesale model is to promote competition in the electricity market by allowing consumers, after the introduction of the wholesale model, to receive only calculations from their electricity trading companies for the total electricity supply including transport services, PRS, electricity tax, VAT, and a larger part of the consumer-related tasks to be carried out by competitive undertakings. The competitive companies are likely to focus on the lowest possible costs, and it can all the other equals contribute to reducing the price of electricity over time to the benefit of consumers. When the wholesale model was adopted in 2012, it was agreed that the electricity trading companies should pay the electricity taxes directly to the customs and tax administration. In order to ensure the payment of the tax, it was decided that the electricity trading companies should be covered by a collective insurance scheme. In preparing the implementation of the wholesale model, practical difficulties have been encountered in implementing an insurance scheme for tax payments by electricity trading companies. That is why the draft law proposes that network operators should pay the tax as they do today. As a result, the same security for tax payments is maintained as at present, and the insurance scheme will not be necessary. In order to safeguard the network operators against losses if an electricity trading undertaking does not pay the electricity charges to the network operator, it is proposed that losses on electricity charges can be included in the revenue framework of the network operators so that the revenue framework does not restrict the network operators' ability to recognise the loss in their network tariffs. Finally, the reason for the proposal to postpone the wholesale model and the delivery obligation until 1 April is that the industry and Energinet.dk should have time to adjust to the change in the distribution of roles in the wholesale model, including adjustments in IT systems and administrative procedures before entry into force. I understand that there is a political desire to free network companies from losses due to a lack of payments by an electricity trading company, even to a greater extent than is envisaged in the proposed legislative proposal. This may be relevant to the bankruptcy of an electricity trading company. I would like to point out now that I intend to table an amendment to this effect, and the amendment will aim to ensure that, in such a situation, the network operator will not only be able to recover its losses on the payment of the tax. This has already been proposed in the draft law, but that through an increase in the revenue framework, the company will also be able to recover losses due to the failure of the electricity trading company to pay for the transport service. Let me again thank you for the interest that Things have expressed in the draft law today. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the single elements of the draft law in committee, and with these comments I would ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310160244	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310160301	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Beazley. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310160326	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Let me say again that, as a starting point, the Left supports the wholesale model in the electricity sector, which creates greater transparency and promotes competition, without giving rise to increased bureaucracy and new burdens for business. I'm not gonna tire you out with that extra bill of over $80 million. kr., which the government has written out to the Danish electricity customers because of their slowness. We have turned that angle a short time ago in the treatment of L 151, which is why I would like to focus on something else. Indeed, the whole argument behind this bill is that SKAT should not take any risks, and that is a sensible objective with which we cannot disagree. After all, we are in the situation in Denmark that electricity taxation is a significant and significant part of the state budget, so that money must be put in the box. That is why it is crucial to me that this should be done in a way that does not burden customers, and here I am thinking both of SKAT's customers, who are now also the network companies, as well as of the electricity dealers and ultimately the electricity customers. Let me start somewhere else. The company Birn, which among other things. operates iron casting in Holstebro and Odense, employing a total of 650 in the group. They make products whose prices depend on the electricity bill, in fact to such an extent that it is indexed according to the evolution of the electricity price. So if the electricity price rises, the price of the goods increases and vice versa. It is clear that Birn needs a quick and clear feedback from their electricity dealer at what price they have to pay for their power. Therefore, it is also a mess that the new model suddenly has to wait even more days for the final bill as I understand it, it will be in the vicinity of 11 working days of the month before the electricity bill reaches the company. It is a problem if, as with Birn, you close the books on average after 61⁄2 business days. And that is not good enough in my view, and a solution should be found in the forthcoming legislative procedure, so that this will not be another chapter in the book on administrative burdens, because SKAT and other authorities are not thinking at all about business opportunities. I very much miss the fact that the government is stamping into the debate in the legislative preparatory work. A little in the same vein, I understand that SKAT will also give network companies a role in validating individual customers' specific electricity charges, such as: electricity-heated dwellings, which have a lower electricity tax. Here we must remember that the whole intention of the wholesale model was to bring together the customer dialogue at the electricity dealer, which means that the network operators do not have a customer-oriented role. Nevertheless, the current draft law envisages that Energinet.dk should keep an eye on suspicious charging conditions and, in so far as they discover anything, they should throw the ball over to the network trading companies, which would then have to do similar detective work in that direction, without having the customer contact. It seems to be both duplication of effort, and it seems crazy to do something that goes against the intention of the wholesale model. As a minimum, it should be left to Energinet.dk to take the necessary regulatory decisions, just as they have done, for example, in the area of solar cells, thereby freeing the grid trading companies from the additional burden that surely also costs society. Alternatively, it should be the responsibility of the tax authorities to take care that the tax base is the right one. Finally, there is a complex question of the identity of the electricity bill for small businesses, which is still read or read annually. It is a small group of companies that are becoming fewer and fewer. The challenge is, as I understand it, that these electricity customers are today settled according to their expected annual consumption, which the Treasury does not consider appropriate. Therefore, the Ministry of Taxation will require the actors in the electricity market to set up completely new IT systems and other things to deal with this shrinking group of customers. Of course, it will be costly, and the prize will be overlooked. By 2020, all customers have remote meter readings and time billing, and then the problem is gone. My attitude to the upcoming committee work in relation to the bill is that we should not make major upheavals for a limited group of customers, which will be smaller and smaller and be completely gone by 2020. It hardly makes socio-economic sense, and there must be ways of providing a temporary arrangement so that the rigid requirements of the tax authorities on identity do not create unnecessary and costly burdens. Overall, the Left supports the intentions of the presented, but the devil lies as well known in detail and, as I see it here, a picture emerges that there are many devils and many details that we need to look at, but I look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310160907	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go straight to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310160915	Thank you for that and also thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And given that the devil is in the detail, I'm sure there are a lot of these things that can best be discussed in a committee room, so let's finally sit down and talk about these things. In fact, technically speaking, I consider this to be a twin for what we have just discussed, and somewhere it is all about the fact that when you move on to invoice in another way, when you introduce a greater competition, you have to make sure that you get the money you need; that SKAT does not risk, therefore, that because we have more private companies, they do not really get their money. But, of course, we also need to ensure that we do not have to have two bills, as we do today, so that we do not unduly bother electricity customers. And if you are going to combine it so that it is no longer the network companies that have to issue a bill and the trading companies another, it is quite important that the exchange of information is carried out in a way that allows you to have the information available to determine the charges and to be able to charge the tax that you have to pay when only one bill is sent to consumers. So I think it is a relatively technical one, not to say very technical solution to a relatively simple problem, but that is the way it is in the area of taxation. And there will also be some of those who are more experienced in tax planning matters than I am who can sign. But I think we agree on the intention, and that is why, of course, I look forward to the continued discussion of the committee. The Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310161056	Thank you. Then we go straight to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310161112	Here we are discussing a bill on e.g.: what's called the wholesale model. It was also dealt with in the proposal before, so perhaps it would have been wise if the two proposals had been co-examined. I assume that the reason why it has not been done is that two different ministries are dealing with them, but it would perhaps have been more obvious that it was the energy rapporteurs who had continued to deal with the things that were about the wholesale model. But now it has ended up in the Tax Committee, and we shall then have a good deal of treatment. As I said, the proposal deals with some adjustments to the wholesale model, but also with the introduction of a reverse charge on the gas and electricity markets. If I am to start with the latter, it is a question of preventing VAT carousel fraud or, more specifically, preventing VAT fraud, because it is not something that has been the big business yet. This is something that is supposed to come, as it has now been established in a number of other EU countries, which have then closed that possibility, and it is typically the case that it simply moves to other countries that have not closed the gap. And that is why it might be a good idea for us in Denmark to take care of this issue before it becomes something that is grossly exploited and something that can cost a great deal of money for the Treasury. What you can then, of course, have doubts about is whether the problem, when you close the gap right on the gas and electricity markets, does not just move on to other areas. We in the Committee on Taxation have previously closed similar gaps in areas where it was about the sale of IT equipment, software and such things, in other words where it was there, we closed the hole, and now it is another area. And I wonder if in 1⁄2 years or 1 year we're not going to close the hole in a third or a fourth area. So we have not solved the basic problem here, but it is nevertheless positive in that, after all, the problem is at least partly solved. After all, it's better than nothing. I do not have much to add to what has already been said by the two previous rapporteurs in connection with the adaptation of the wholesale model. I think that the rapporteur of the Left in particular mentioned a number of issues which might be interesting to examine in more detail during the committee procedure. I have to admit, frankly, that I have not been aware of these myself, but I think it sounds like quite real issues, which are important for us to have a thorough look at. But basically I would say that we think that otherwise it is excellent alignments that are being put in place so that it is made better and easier to introduce the wholesale model when it is now put into operation on 1 April 2016. So we can basically support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310161345	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And since there does not seem to be any radical rapporteur in the Chamber right now, I would like to go to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who speaks for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310161409	As mentioned above, the bill contains two parts. First of all, the Act on the tax of electricity is adapted so that the so-called wholesale model can be introduced from 1 April 2016. After all, the aim is to promote competition in the electricity market for the benefit of customers. That part of the draft law is presented on the basis of the 2012 Energy Agreement, in which SF also participated. I would like to say a little more about the second part of the legislative proposal, which aims to introduce a reverse charge on domestic sales of gas and electricity to taxable resellers, as well as on the supply of gas and electricity certificates to taxable persons, as it is so excitingly called. Against this background, the proposal aims to prevent and reduce the risk of the State being cheated on VAT revenue on the basis of so-called VAT carousel fraud, as we have seen in other EU countries. Since the end of last year, a number of energy organisations and Europol have warned about VAT fraud in Europe. According to them, Europe could potentially face a problem as big as the problem of VAT fraud with CO2 DKK. A number of years ago, and where Denmark unfortunately had an unfortunate role, to put it a little diplomatically. That is why, of course, we also need to make sure that we are clear about this and to ensure that we are against VAT fraud on energy trade. I recognise that it will impose additional tasks on companies in the industry to adapt to the new legislation, for example. in their IT systems, but given that there are few companies and smaller-scale costs and in the light of the warnings about VAT fraud, we believe that these are burdens that can be taken into account. The SF therefore also supports the second part of the bill, and we support the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310161555	Thank you. Then we will immediately jump to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310161606	Thank you. As some others have mentioned, this draft law is very clearly in line with the proposal we discussed earlier, which dealt with the wholesale model in relation to the issues in the area of the Ministry of Climate and Energy. As has also been said, what is here consists of two elements which the Enhedslisten can both support. One part is an attempt to adapt the electricity tax legislation so that it corresponds to the challenges faced by the wholesale model. It must also ensure that there is no loss of taxes and charges in connection with the introduction of the wholesale model • losses on charges in the area which have not been intended and have not been wanted, but which is due to some changes that make things go around in a different way. All those changes we think are sensible and good. Compared to the part about a reverse charge on the gas and electricity markets in order to reduce the state's risk of losses by the type of organised fraud with VAT, which is known as MTIC fraud, it sounds really, really ugly, when you say it in this way.Of course, we are also prepared to support a bill that will ensure that Denmark avoids fraud in this area. It is true, as several speakers have said earlier today, that it has been seen in a number of other EU countries, and we have previously in connection with the sale of CO2 so we support this bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310161753	Thank you. Then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310161800	The bill we are discussing here today is about two things. One thing is a transition to the wholesale energy model, and that supports the Liberal Alliance, as our energy rapporteur too, Mr President. Villum Christensen, has said in the previous bill which was discussed here. But then it also involves a transition to the reverse charge for VAT in the tax field for supplies of electricity and gas. And we do not support that. It appears from the draft law that this does not follow as a consequence of switching to the wholesale model, so it has no connection with it. It is also clear from the draft law that the VAT fraud in this area, which the amendment of the law is intended to prevent, has not so far been detected, so there is no problem. So you change a law without having identified a problem, and it imposes additional costs on some companies for bureaucracy and restructuring, which these companies did not need to be imposed if this change was not implemented, and this change is not necessary to prevent fraud, because no fraud has been detected at all yet, but one has only one fear that it might happen at some point. I do not think that there is any basis for imposing additional costs on companies for bureaucracy and administration, because we want to address a problem that has not yet been seen. That is why we cannot support that part of the bill. We must then do away with ourselves if we can support the legislative proposal as such, because it also contains some things that are necessary for a transition to the wholesale model, but I expect that we will have to vote against it if the legislative proposal is not to be divided.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162000	A brief comment from Mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162003	Thank you. It relates to the last part here, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says the Liberal Alliance can't support it. I just want to know whether the Liberal Alliance is of the opinion that when other countries have done this and if, as in the committee's work, it can be made clear that there are other countries that are trying to avoid this fraud and introduce legislation, that there have also been specific citizens who have been involved in fraud, perhaps even Danish citizens, if you want to take a different view of the proposal and say that it is probably better to make sure that this does not happen than to wait for the crime to be committed before saying no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162043	I do not know whether other countries have experienced fraud in this area of electricity and gas. I understand that this is, of course, a directive coming from the European Union system and I do not know whether it is a directive specifically aimed at this area or whether it is a broad directive that is aimed at all kinds of areas and which is then implemented here, even though there are no problems here. I'm a little unsure about that. I just note that in Denmark there are not these problems • it is directly in the bill • yet a change is being made that costs companies money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162120	Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162122	There is no reason why we are standing here and discussing what can be documented and something like that, so I would just like to ask in principle: will the Liberal Alliance support this change if it emerges during the committee's work that there are in fact other countries making this change in order to avoid fraud and that fraud has taken place in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162145	The Liberal Alliance, as a principle, does not support new and annoying legislation in Denmark just because other countries introduce new and annoying legislation. If it has a function in other countries to introduce that legislation, that is to say to prevent an evil that is greater than the legislation itself, then the other countries must do so, but if we in Denmark do not have that problem, we should not do so. So in this way I am quite comfortable with the fact that there is pluralism in Europe where countries do different things depending on the specific circumstances and problems of those countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162219	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then the tax minister has the opportunity to run up and thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162239	First of all, I would like to thank you for that, with few exceptions, very broad agreement with the draft law. Firstly, the proposal provides for a number of tax adjustments to the wholesale electricity model. The wholesale model implies that it will only be the electricity trading companies that maintain contact with consumers of electricity with a view to promoting competition in the electricity market. The adjustments in the electricity tax mean that there will also be a robust electricity tax system in the wholesale model that guarantees the revenue from the electricity tax. Secondly, the draft law contains a proposal to introduce a reverse charge for VAT on the gas and electricity markets. This proposal is intended to prevent carousel fraud, which may arise from intermediaries and from the sale of certificates, and which may result in a significant loss of VAT for the Treasury and distortion of competition to the detriment of the law-abiding part of the industry. The proposal is targeted precisely at those who act where the risk of fraud is greatest. The overall legislative proposal contributes to ensuring the best possible guarantee of State revenue from VAT and taxes on electricity and gas, while at the same time promoting competition for the benefit of consumers. During the course of the debate, the rapporteur of the Left mentioned a problem concerning the timing of invoicing. I should like to stress this point in the second proposal, that is to say the L 151 presented by the Minister for Climate and Energy. The other technical questions addressed by the rapporteur of the Left will be looked at in committee and will respond more closely, of course. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur was in a debate with the Socialist rapporteur on the issue of the reverse charge, and I have to say for the record that a number of other countries have introduced a reverse charge because one has seen this kind of carousel fraud happen unfortunately, and when it is on the way to becoming a general trend to ensure against this kind of carousel fraud, then it is clear that it is also important to pay close attention to the fact that some of these stray vessels may be looking to where this type of fraud might be easier to do. So it is of course worth taking into account that a good handful of countries have already introduced it because they have experienced concrete challenges with it. It is actually quite understandable that it is relatively easy and certainly does not require great setup physically to enter the work in these areas. So it is just for the sake of good order to stress that, of course, it is not to bother anyone that we are doing this, but precisely because there is a challenge that we need to address and prevent. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and will endeavour to answer questions during the committee procedure as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162556	A brief remark from Mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162558	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister of Taxation how much the Minister of Taxation has done to assess the level of bureaucracy and red tape and administration and, as such, the financial burden on companies in connection with the preparation of this proposal, and whether it is proportional to the risks of SKAT. Is this something that the Minister of Taxation has dug into trying to make an assessment of whether this is proportional to the risks of SKAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162628	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162629	There has been a very constructive dialogue, including with the industry, in this area, and it is my impression that we have come up with what is, at first sight, the least cumbersome model. It's been a long process. But I'm glad we've come to where we are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162646	Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162647	Yes, but the tax minister also comes up with a bill proposing that more companies should implement completely new loading systems, etc. Only if an electricity trading company goes bankrupt will there be a small risk compared to some taxes. Are they going to pay taxes and thus burden the Treasury, or are they going to burden the electricity customers who are exactly in that area or from that company? Is that something like the tax minister, for example? assessment is proportionate to the risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162729	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162731	I think that with the proposal we have found a good balance, but of course it is also clear that it has been difficult to achieve that balance. However, as I said, there has been a good dialogue, including with the players.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162741	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162813	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Foreign Minister first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310162814	Thank you very much, President. The Danish People's Party has put forward a proposal that the government should be required to work to suspend EU negotiations with Turkey on accession to the EU. In the comments on the proposal, the proposers recognise the importance of the European Union's relationship with Turkey, and I have also noted that the proposers consider that we now have good relations with Turkey in the Council of Europe, in NATO and in a number of other international organisations. However, the authors of the motion for a resolution also mention a number of points which should be against Turkey becoming a full member of the European Union. The first is that there is popular opposition to the accession of Turkey; the second is that Turkey is a large, poor non-European country; the third is that women's rights and freedom of expression are suppressed; and the fourth is that the Lars Hedegaard case illustrates that it is not a constitutional state in the Western sense. In a sense, I do not disagree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that these matters should be addressed, but I disagree that, because of these matters, we should work to suspend the EU's negotiations with Turkey for accession to the European Union. I have no doubt that Turkey is a European state and therefore entitled to apply for membership of the European Union, in accordance with Article 49 of the Treaty of Lisbon. Geography also speaks for it: the country's largest city is half in Asia, half in Europe. Also from a historical and cultural perspective, Turkey is an integral part of Europe's history. Turkey is a strategic, security and economically important partner for both Denmark and Europe. Turkey is a geopolitically crucial ally in addressing the complex challenges facing the international community, among others. The Middle East and the fight against terrorism. That is why it is in our interest that the EU's dialogue with Turkey on reforms should continue, including in the form of the EU's accession negotiations. The government's overall policy in relation to EU enlargement is therefore firm. The enlargement process plays an important role in stability and economic growth and in promoting democracy and the rule of law in Europe. The European Union's attractiveness is an important incentive for the applicant countries' reform processes by ensuring credibility about the EU's enlargement process while maintaining that a sound merit-based approach can promote security and prosperity, and with Danish values we have the greatest chance of promoting those very values. Let me remind you of the framework agreed for the EU's enlargement process. A key element in the enlargement process is the fulfilment of the so-called Copenhagen criteria established during the Danish Presidency in 1993. The criteria include strict requirements for democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights, the protection of minorities, and requirements for functioning market economies and the ability to assume the obligations of EU membership. On the basis of this overall approach, I would like to make some comments on each of the four points mentioned in the comments to the motion for a resolution. Firstly, I do not find it surprising that in 2012 the Everything's opinion poll on EU accession negotiations with Turkey showed popular opposition to Turkey joining the European Union. In fact, I see this as an expression of the fact that the Danes are aware that major reform demands are being made for new Member States and that the Danes know that Turkey is not ready for accession to the European Union at this time. Secondly, I agree that Turkey is a large country that is still relatively poor compared to the Member States of the European Union. Of the current EU countries, only Bulgaria has a lower GDP per head. capital than Turkey. At the same time, it is clear that Turkey has an economic potential in the long term. Turkey is the EU's sixth largest trading partner, while the EU is Turkey's largest trading partner. And Turkey continues to have good growth rates of 4%. in 2013 and 2,8%; for the first 9 months of 2014. Furthermore, Turkey has a robust banking sector in which it has not experienced the cracks that have struck a number of EU Member States. It is certainly not without reason that the government has included Turkey in its growth market efforts. Of course, we must try to prevent new Member States becoming an economic burden on the European Union. The Commission's autumn 2013 enlargement report focused more on the economic governance and competitiveness of the candidate countries. Enlargement countries are to prepare annual national economic reform programmes which will be critically examined by the Commission. As part of Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union, the European Union can therefore push for reforms in Turkey, such as Turkey. can reduce the informal economy, improve the fight against corruption and ensure better compliance with the EU's economic ground rules. In this way, the accession negotiations directly contribute to creating a better framework for the Danish business community's involvement in Turkey. As a third argument for ending accession negotiations with Turkey, the proposers refer to non-compliance with human rights, including women's rights and freedom of expression. Let me just make it clear that there is clearly room for improvement in terms of the rights of Turkish women and the employment rate. Turkey has launched a series of measures to promote women's access to the labour market, but among other things: traditional gender roles and insufficient access to childcare continue to constitute a barrier to women's economic activity. Violence against women is unfortunately also widespread in Turkey. It should be mentioned, however, that Turkey was the first country to sign and ratify the Istanbul Convention, the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. In order to implement the provisions of the Convention, Turkey adopted its first law against violence against women. The Act entered into force in March 2012 and includes among other things: provisions for setting up centres to provide advice and support to women affected by violence. Civil society organisations have voiced criticism of the implementation of the law in practice, including: the manning of the centres, but we see a willingness to tackle the problem and promote equality. In addition to strengthened efforts by the authorities, there is also a need for a change of mentality in Turkey, so that violence in the family is seen and dealt with to a much greater extent as a social problem and not as a private problem. Unfortunately, with regard to freedom of the press and freedom of expression, I have to agree that developments in Turkey are worrying. Press and freedom of expression are fundamental values for the government, and it is clear that Turkey has major challenges in this area and that progress is necessary. The issue of freedom of the press in Turkey is closely followed by the Danish Government and we are constantly expressing concern about the freedom of expression and the press in our dialogue with Turkey. The case concerning the extradition of Lars Hedegaard's alleged assassin is then referred to by the proposers as a fourth point in the argument in order to suspend the EU's accession negotiations with Turkey. As you know, this is a matter that both the Minister of Justice and I are pursuing. It is unacceptable that Turkey has still not given a full answer as to why a person suspected of a very serious crime has been released and has been asked by Denmark to be extradited. Unfortunately, the current case illustrates that Turkey continues to have problems in the area of the rule of law. We will continue to hold Turkey to the fact that we want an answer. The Turkish authorities have no doubt that the Danish Government takes this matter very seriously. In the near future, the Minister of Justice and I will explain the matter in close consultation with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Since enlargement to include Bulgaria and Romania, the basis for the EU's accession negotiations with the candidate countries has been a strengthened negotiating framework in which negotiations are an open process and the outcome has not been given in advance. The accession negotiations with Turkey were opened on 3 October 2005 on the basis of such a tight negotiating framework, which allows for the establishment of milestones for the opening and closing of individual chapters of the acquis communautaire. There is therefore no doubt that the European Union has agreed a clear framework for the enlargement process in relation to Turkey and has made tough demands on reforms. From this point of view, I believe that the EU's continued accession negotiations with Turkey are indeed the best tool for ensuring dialogue with Turkey on the Turkish reform agenda, including the challenges in the area of freedom of the press and legal reforms. At the same time, however, I would like to emphasise that it is essential for Turkey to work actively to meet the conditions imposed by the European Union. From the government's point of view, a completely different Turkey is needed before it can become a member of the European Union. There is a long way to go before Turkey gains membership. The government continues to support the negotiations with Turkey. We are following the line of the Danish Parliament's decisions on the negotiations from 2006 and 2009 when it was stated that the objective was Turkish membership of the European Union. At the same time, the adoptions emphasise that the negotiations are an open process, the outcome of which has not been given in advance, and that the EU's ability to absorb new members must also be taken into account. On this basis, and on behalf of the government, I call for this motion for a resolution to be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310163751	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Then we go to the rapporteur's line. First, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310163803	Thank you for that, President. I shall try to be fairly brief, as my and the Left's position on Turkey's development is fairly clear. In short, it can be said that Turkey is going the wrong way. That is why I would also like to make it clear that the Left certainly does not welcome the developments we have witnessed in recent years. This applies to Turkey's relations with human rights in general and to freedom of expression and the validity of human rights for women in particular. In addition, it can be said that the handling of the Lars Hedegaard case by the Turkish authorities has been regrettable and a lack of Turkish cooperation. We cannot be satisfied with this in Denmark. It should therefore also be quite clear to everyone that, from a Danish point of view, Turkey is certainly not on the verge of becoming a member of the European Union and is quite a long way from becoming a member of it. Does this mean that we must suspend the accession negotiations with Turkey, as the proposers want? No, I do not think that it does so, although, like the authors of the motion for a resolution at the moment, I am somewhat doubtful about the Turkish will to carry out the social reforms which are a prerequisite for Turkey's eventual move closer to the European Union. Despite this scepticism, however, I think it would be wrong to suspend negotiations with Turkey, because the accession negotiations are now our best opportunity to influence the situation in Turkey and to move it in the right direction. It is not so clear at the moment, but it does not mean that we should let go. We have seen, both in the Balkans and in Central and Eastern Europe, how the prospect of possible EU membership has been the driving force and motivation that can make it possible to restore fundamental and necessary reforms of society and overcome old disputes, and we should not cut off the forces of reform in Turkey from this opportunity. It is in Europe's interest and therefore also in Denmark's interest to work to ensure that our Turkish neighbour in the south remains a close ally that respects democratic standards and basic human rights. I see this as the whole purpose of the accession negotiations. This interest has not, of course, diminished in the current situation, where the unrest in the Middle East and the large migratory flows from Syria and Iraq only increase our interest in close cooperation with Turkey, and in this situation I find it difficult to see what benefit it would be if the European Union were to suspend negotiations with Turkey. That is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, although we certainly share the concern about developments in Turkey which lies behind the submission of the proposal. Instead, we call on the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to continue the critical dialogue and to take the lead in the EU by demanding that the Turks comply with the values and standards of European society that their desire for EU membership must basically be expressed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310164118	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310164131	Thank you for that, President. As far as the Socialists are concerned, I can also be relatively brief. I can say that the Socialists cannot support the motion for a resolution to suspend negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union, as it says. It is certainly quite appropriate to point out that there are many problems, including in Turkish society. When we look at women's rights, when we look at the conditions of freedom of expression, and not least when we look at Turkey as the rule of law, and, last but not least, when we see it in a narrow Danish context in relation to the handling of the so-called Lars Hedegaard case, there is much to be desired. The question then is whether it is a basis for stopping negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union. The Socialists do not think so, for the sole reason that exactly the negotiations here are proof that the European Union can actually be used to draw Turkey in the right direction. This is, if you like, the way to ensure the implementation of the necessary reforms. There is a lot to be done yet, but if you do not hold these debates, you can have long discussions about which way else it will go. So the Socialists cannot support the proposal. It is clear that, in relation to possible accession, it is essential, as the Foreign Minister also mentioned, to bear in mind that possible accession will not be a financial burden on the European Union. If you look at Turkey as such, you can see that it is actually a country in economic prosperity. I think that should also be mentioned. It should also be mentioned that in terms of what negotiations actually are, the rules of the game are set for negotiations on possible accession to the European Union. It is the rules of the game that are clear and it has been established what Turkey must comply with. Nor is it surprising for the Turks that, as a basis for possible accession, we in the European Union give priority to the importance of women's rights and the importance of freedom of expression and, as we have mentioned, there is room for progress here. But if we don't have this string, this bond to hold on to, we can rightly discuss which way it's going to go. We need to pay close attention to these negotiations. There is no doubt that the authors of the motion also attach great importance to the fact that this is an issue which also affects the public debate, and for this reason alone I think it is important to make very, very clear what the conditions are for the negotiations to actually be conducted. I think it is quite fair and it is quite open and completely transparent that when the European Union has enlargement processes, these are the criteria that are being worked on. It is popularly said that there is a very good way to go before Turkey can even be admitted to the European Union, and I think that this is also relevant, given that when you look at the problems of women's rights and freedom of expression and when there are the issues that can be raised about Turkey as the rule of law, not least in the wake of their critical handling of the so-called Lars Hedegaard case, there are a great many questions that can be asked. Those issues and those views must, of course, be enforced in cooperation between the European Union and Turkey. That's why the process is important to keep on track. So the Socialists cannot support the motion for a resolution. We believe that it is important to keep the dialogue and negotiations on track, and we do not believe that the answer is to stop negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310164520	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310164532	Thank you for the floor. The Danish People's Party has proposed that the government should work to suspend negotiations on Turkey's accession to the EU and, according to the proposers, the reasons for the proposal are different. I need to get into a few of them. As far as freedom of expression is concerned, the Radical Left is in fact very much in agreement with the Danish People's Party that developments in Turkey are very worrying. Freedom of the press is a fundamental value which should be respected by all current and future members of the European Union. Therefore, it is a problem when you close on YouTube and Twitter in spring 2014 and in fact only reopens them after the Constitutional Court has decided that it was not legal. Another example is that many journalists are still imprisoned in Turkish prisons, also on the basis of what to say, a lack of freedom of expression. This is totally unacceptable. In fact, we are very much in agreement with this in the Radical Left. The proposers also mention as a basis for the proposal that Turkey is a large and poor and non-European country. And we very much agree that it is a large and a poor country that only Bulgaria has a lower per capita GDP. citizen than Turkey. We must, of course, be aware that new Member States will not be a financial burden for the European Union, and we also agree with that, which is why the Commission, with its 2013 enlargement report, has also placed a greater focus on the economic strength and competitiveness of the candidate countries. The enlargement countries must, inter alia, meet the Commission's wishes. submit each year their plans on how to implement economic reform programmes. The authors also justify their proposal that Turkey is not a European country. In this respect, we do not agree. Turkey is a European state and therefore also entitled to apply for membership of the European Union, in accordance with Article 49 of the Treaty of Lisbon. In addition, Turkey is today also a very important geopolitical ally in the context of the challenges facing the international community in the Middle East in the fight against terrorism, etc. That is why it is very much in our interest that we should have a dialogue and the European Union should have a dialogue with Turkey on reforms and that it should also continue in the course of the accession negotiations. Finally, the Lars Hedegaard case. It is true that this is a major problem, and it is also something we want to point out in the further dialogue, namely that it has not been possible, if I may say so, to justify the release of the suspect in connection with the assassination of Lars Hedegaard. We also know that a closed consultation on this has been convened in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 8 April. On the whole, therefore, the Radical Left agrees with some of the reservations underlying the motion for a resolution and agrees that it should continue to be raised against Turkey. However, this should not lead to our recommending that negotiations with Turkey on their accession to the European Union be suspended. On the contrary, we actually believe that dialogue with the European Union and Turkey is essential in order to push forward in a positive direction in relation to Turkey's development. Against this background, I should like to call for this motion for a resolution to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310164850	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310164907	Since my party's rapporteur in this area, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, who cannot be present, I shall say the following on behalf of the SF: In the SF we have over the years been supporters of Turkish EU membership. Turkey is a large country with high economic growth. The country has undergone a strong reform process and it is an important signal to the Muslim world that we in Europe want to work together instead of creating conflicts. It is clear that Turkey must meet the requirements of new Member States, including satisfactory democratic development. We agree that there have been problems with democracy in Turkey, but all the more important is that the door be kept open and that Turkey can become a member when the conditions are there and not before. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310164958	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310165009	There's such an old Roman senate about this. Furthermore, Carthage should be destroyed and repeated there, and here the Danish People's Party repeats that Turkey should not join the European Union. When you read the motion for a resolution, you can see that it is a long list of opinion polls. Opinion polls are sometimes nice reading and sometimes less lovely reading, but rarely any really good and factual argument for making a proposal. And then there is the question of geography, where I may think the claims made about Turkey's basic Asian character do not exactly correspond to what I learned in primary school. But it was many years ago, and it may be that new elements have been introduced into primary education. It is not, of course, because the Enhedslisten would recommend Turkey to join the European Union, but we do believe that if the Turkish people so wish, and on the other hand, it can be said that what exists today under Erdogan does not live up to democratic rule of law. On the contrary, as others have said, developments are heading in the wrong direction. Critics of the government and of the President are being imprisoned, freedom of assembly and freedom of speech are being violated. The rights of minorities, and not least the rights of the Kurds, are being trampled underfoot daily, at least some of the Enhedslisten's members of parliament have had the opportunity to experience on their own, because the Turkish authorities are not always quite precise in their efforts against minorities. It is clear that such repression and the problems of human rights must be criticised, and it is equally clear that Turkey is actually violating its obligations to the Council of Europe with regard to these violations. The Hedegaard case also shows that Turkey is not a constitutional state. As is clear from the Ministry of Justice's report, the intelligence service and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were involved in the case of extradition of the Dane, who is suspected of the assassination of Lars Hedegaard. And one might well fear that the assassinated Dane has been extradited to the Islamic State as part of a prisoner exchange. That would then be just one example in the series of cooperation between the authoritarian, Islamist Turkish Government and the Fascists of the Islamic State. This cooperation is, of course, totally unacceptable. It cannot be right that Denmark's close allies support the extremists of the Islamic State and oppose the Arabs, Kurds and Christians who are fighting a desperate battle in northern Syria to ward off massacres and ethnic cleansing. We have raised this issue on several occasions by demanding that we increase the pressure on Turkey in the light of its failure to act against the Islamic State and a lack of respect for its international obligations. When we put forward such a proposal on 2 December 2014 for an increased effort, the Danish People's Party voted against, citing that Denmark had a good relationship with the Turkish Government and that it was important to maintain it. We must say, then, that it is rather contradictory that we can hardly come up with enough bad things today to say about the Turkish Government and Turkey in relation to the resolution that is before us. Now it is such a rather strange discussion, because if you want to put pressure on Turkey, it is a threat that they will not join the European Union, hardly particularly effective, when most people in Turkey know that membership of the European Union will hardly be realistic until at least 20-30 years from now. That is why the proposal put forward here does not contribute to the promotion of human rights and equality, nor does it support the democratic forces in Turkey that are fighting for human rights. On the contrary, in the real world of the Danish People's Party, when you vote against proposals for increased pressure and when you refuse to support the Kurds in Kobani against the Islamic State, you might say that the Turkish Government is bent its necks. We cannot support the proposal. If you really want to put pressure on the Turkish Government, it is a question of putting pressure on the Turkish Government through NATO cooperation, which Turkey is involved in. It is rather paradoxical that at the moment there are indeed Danish troops in Turkey in support of the government which is making a fool of us far along the way. Here, however, the Danish People's Party is passive. So in those areas where action could be taken to push the Turkish Government, nothing is being done, but when it comes to making symbolic proposals about something that cannot happen in 30 years' time, you are getting in the shoes. We cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310165501	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310165508	Today we have the first reading of the Danish People's Party's proposal to oblige the Danish Government to work to suspend EU negotiations on Turkey's accession to the EU. The background to this is e.g.: the much-discussed Lars Hedegaard case. It is beyond doubt that the course of the suspect in the Lars Hedegaard case is highly questionable. It is now almost six months since the Danish authorities accidentally learned that the alleged perpetrator had been released by the Turkish authorities. There are also reports that the release should be part of a prisoner exchange between Turkey and the Islamic State in September last year, which, if necessary, would be completely unheard of. Despite the seriousness of the matter, it has not yet been possible to obtain a full statement from the Turkish authorities. If there is a judgment justifying the release, it must be available and it is obvious that references to the division of powers are totally absurd in the current diplomatic crisis. The surrender of a judgment has nothing to do with interfering with the independence of the judiciary. Following the embarrassing course of the case, one might also ask why the Danish authorities have not yet called for the alleged perpetrator with associated publication of the name and picture. The Turkish Government is making a fool of Denmark. The Danish Government does not act consistently and the Danish police authorities continue to hesitate. Against this background not only the Danish People's Party, but the Danish Parliament is naturally upset. The question then is what consequences we should draw. The Danish People's Party proposes that the Danish Government be required to work to suspend negotiations on Turkey's accession to the EU. Turkey was recognised as a candidate country in 1999, and accession negotiations began in 2005. There is no doubt that Turkey is a long way from meeting the so-called Copenhagen criteria. Turkey is not yet a democracy in the Western sense, as the Hedegaard case is just one of many examples of. Nor is Turkey a constitutional state. The country's authorities violate human rights, do not protect minorities, there is in no way equality between men and women, and so-called freedom of the press is a farce. This makes it quite impossible to imagine Turkey as a member of the European Union for many years to come, and why not suspend the accession negotiations? Because Turkey can be described as a swing state. The next 10 to 20 years will show whether Turkey is developing in a direction in which Western values are being sustained or whether Turkey is developing in a direction in which the Middle Eastern values are going to dominate. This is exactly the crossroads that Turkey faces. And it will be absolutely crucial for the future of Europe whether it will be one way or another that will influence developments in Turkey. If we shut down the accession negotiations, there will be a considerable risk that the Turkish people will turn their backs on the secularisation trail and democratisation of the country's institutions, and that can never be in Europe's interests. We must not turn our backs on Turkey, but rather maintain negotiations and pressure for secularisation and democratisation. It's going infinitely slow, and it'll probably be for a lot of years yet. Turkey could also play a significant role in this regard in relation to the relationship with the Islamic State. Nevertheless, we must recognise that Turkey is one of the sharpest critics of Assad, that it has received hundreds of thousands of refugees from Syria and that to date Turkey has stopped many thousands of foreign fighters on its way to fighting for the Islamic State. This was demonstrated by the information given to Foreign Policy Name on a trip to the country last week, and the information was confirmed by the Danish ambassador. The swing state of Turkey must be maintained on a path of reform. By concluding negotiations on accession to the European Union, we risk throwing the country in exactly the opposite direction. Let us therefore maintain the pressure on the Hedegaard case, require the Danish Government to use stronger means and threaten to withdraw the Danish military contributions to Turkey and require the government to ensure greater involvement in the EU in this pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310165942	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310165949	Thank you. Since the Conservative rapporteur, Lars Barfoed, cannot be present, I have promised to read out the following: the Conservative People's Party has the view on the issue of Turkey's participation in the European Union that it will be beneficial in several ways. Both economic and security policy, it is important for us that Turkey is linked to Europe. But real membership is only possible if Turkey is prepared to do so itself, and Turkey is not now. There is a long way to go and there are several years to go before it can become a reality. First of all, Turkey must meet the so-called Copenhagen criteria: firstly, the important political criterion that it must have stable institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for the protection of minorities; secondly, the economic criterion that it must have a well-functioning market economy and be able to cope with the competitive pressure on market forces within the EU; and thirdly, the issue of the EU's overall acquis, namely that it must be able to assume the obligations arising from EU membership, including accepting the objective of political, economic and monetary union. Denmark and the rest of Europe have good and important cooperation relations with Turkey in a number of important areas. Turkey is a major economic factor and a large market. And geopolitically, Turkey is located very centrally between the Arab countries of the Middle East and Europe. It is of great importance, for the sake of both the European economy, stability and security, that Turkey sees the European Union as the future central partner and does not turn away from Europe. The motion for a resolution we are debating here points very rightly to some of the problems that are blocking Turkish membership of the European Union. However, it is precisely the prospect of one day becoming a member of the European Union that may constitute the necessary pressure to support both economic and legal policy developments that are desirable. It would therefore not be in the interests of Denmark or the European Union to stop any further debate with Turkey on EU membership, on the contrary. Although it has long prospects, there must be a light at the end of the tunnel, which anchors Turkey in a course towards Europe. Against this background, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310170214	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310170225	Thank you. I would say that, after the speeches that have been made, I would hardly call it a debate, so I am not surprised. I think I would have been surprised if everyone had supported the proposal. But I think it is important, given what has happened in the last few years, to have this debate on Turkey's accession. Because it works on me and on the Danish People's Party, as if you continue out of the usual track, you do as usual, you say that dialogue is good and you don't have to make so many demands. Of course, what I am saying is not quite true, because it is also a little black and white drawn up, but it is now and again. I think that some of what has been said and some of what is right is that Turkey is an important partner. I do not think Turkey should join the European Union, I think it is a state that does not belong at all in the European Union, but that is what we mean in the Danish People's Party and the rest of the Danish Parliament does not agree with. But it is an important partner, and I really think that the Left said it quite well, namely that it is the Turkish neighbour in the south and therefore a neighbour. I think that is quite right, that is right, and that is how it is now, and I think it should continue to be a neighbour. The Liberal Alliance called Turkey a swinging state, and that may also affect very precisely the reason why you do what you do, namely keep negotiating, because then you have a little hand in what happens. I also think that it is to put Turkey in the eye when you keep saying that you have negotiations, knowing, as the speaker has said, that nothing will happen for the next 20 to 30 years at least, when you see the developments taking place in Turkey, then the time horizon is at least a long way off. The Minister also said that there is a need for a completely different Turkey before it is ready for accession. And that's quite right, and that's why it may also seem a bit so skinny that you have these accession negotiations, in addition to the idea that a swing state can be a little good to hold hands with. One of the things that has also been said is that the rules of the game are clear. Morten Bødskov; the rules of the game are clear to join the EU. Maybe that's where my concern comes in. There are no limits to how big the European Union can be, not when you ask the Committee on European Affairs, and now I have been sitting there for so many years, that answer is kind of floating in the air. The European Union can be as big as it can ever be. That's one thing. The second point is that we are talking about these so-called Copenhagen criteria. Perhaps on the basis of that, I can be concerned about an enlargement of ten states, where it was certainly not all the criteria that were met and where there is at least some experience that makes me very worried. Because we have countries that have become members of the European Union, which have certainly not complied with the criteria when they became members and which have certainly not developed very much since. I think that is problematic, and I would just like to make a very strong appeal, if only when we are here today, and all the other parties agree that, in relation to Turkey, negotiations must continue, that those criteria must be respected in any case. This applies not only to Turkey, but to all states. It's extremely important. The last thing I would like to mention is that it is funny that when we discuss Turkey and Turkey's accession to the European Union, we forget a little about the association agreement that was made back in 1980. Because there are times when it is possible to sit and say whether it really is not a little unimportant for Turkey to join the European Union, knowing that there is an association agreement which actually means that Turkish citizens, Turkish citizens who are in the European Union and who are here legally, and we have, I think, 40 000 in Denmark, some of them have also become Danish citizens, and there is no doubt that it has some rights that other third-country citizens do not have. We can then say, in relation to accession to the European Union or not, that at least there are some things that cause problems, and there are some rights that the Turks have today, which no one else has. And then there is this accession debate, which I would have appealed to everyone to say that we are now doing something about it. I have a problem with violence against women in Turkey. And besides there is a lot of violence, one woman per day is actually being killed in Turkey. I read that in Metroxpress here a little month ago, one a day being killed in Turkey. We have the whole Lars Hedegaard case, where I think words were used as criticismable handling, it was a regrettable handling of the case • yes, I think that is a mild word. In any case, I think it gives cause for thought that this is the kind of state that you are negotiating with. We have statements in relation to Charlie Hebdo from the Turkish Prime Minister, Erdogan, who says that the drawings in the magazine Charlie Hebdo were a serious provocation and that no violations against the Prophet Muhammad are allowed. I think this is also worth including, because it shows something about the problems that will be, I think, in relation to the accession of Turkey. It certainly is not going the right way. But thank you for the words and thanks for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310170814	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310170834	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Beazley. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310170910	Thank you. In the spring of 2013, a broad majority in this Parliament made an agreement on the reform of the SU system and the framework for study implementation. We did so from the point of view of the fact that a well-functioning education system must be supported by an effective SU system. Although in the negotiations on an SU reform we had to target some negative approaches, a majority in the Folketing found it more important to secure a future place of work for students rather than to increase the SU. The legislative proposal we are going to deal with now contains a number of adjustments to the SU reform in particular. Among the many amendments to the proposal, I would like to mention four of a particularly relevant nature: it is proposed to extend the scope for SU to supplement secondary education, so that it also includes individual subjects on admission courses for engineering training. At the same time, the rules for the provision of access courses to engineering training and similar technical training are being changed. Secondly, it is proposed that the calculation of parental income-dependent SU should be changed. The change will have an impact on the calculation of the aid to a student living with one parent and his or her spouse or registered partner. This is because in future the income of the spouse or registered partner must be included in the income base. In addition, the income limit for a student to receive supplements to the basic SU grant is changed. It is amended in such a way that in future there will be more who can obtain the full supplement, but also more who will not be able to get the supplement. At present, the SU allowance is fixed on the basis of parents' income in the second calendar year preceding the year of support. It is proposed that this be changed to the 1st of the same month in which the supplement is granted, so that the SU supplement is in future calculated on the basis of the current economic situation. The last amendment I would like to mention concerns the fact that students who are no longer eligible for the SU, because they have started a youth education course more than five times, with the proposal in future, will be able to obtain the maximum amount of exemption in force during the months of the grant year in which the student is not eligible for the SU. In addition to the proposals I have mentioned here, the draft law contains a number of amendments of a technical and administrative nature. The Left is part of the settlement for an SU reform and we can support the government's adjustments to the reform. We do, however, have a few clear questions for a few calculations, but we will ask them during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310171201	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I now give the floor to the Socialist Group rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310171211	Thank you for that, President. The state's education support is, of course, a central part of our Danish model. It thus allows you to take an education wherever you are born and by whom you are born. This is, of course, a major factor in supporting social mobility. Of course, it is crucial for students who take advantage of the educational support that it contributes partly to the success of students in the study, but also important for the bottom line of our society, because we need to become smarter and more skilled. That is why it is also important for us Social Democrats to safeguard the SU. It must be used, not abused, and we must ensure that we end up where it is needed. Today we are discussing Bill No. L 149, which contains a number of amendments to the SU Act and other laws. My colleague, the rapporteur of the Left, has loyally examined the changes, so I will not be making that text as close, but I am pleased that we will ensure that the SU is offered for short access courses in engineering training. For in the last amendment to the S.U. Act it was decided that only SU should be given to upper secondary supplement, which is offered under the G.S. Order. It therefore had the unintended consequence that the admission courses to the engineering courses were no longer eligible for SU. It is, of course, important for higher education that they can help students get started. That is why I am pleased that we are now getting the unintended consequence right. We continue to work to ensure good conditions for our degree programmes and thus also for the students. We have also been confirmed through the consultation for this bill that there is support from the educational institutions, and we are, of course, pleased about that. It was also mentioned in several places that there is satisfaction that short, intensive access courses to technical education are now also eligible for SU. That is why the Socialists naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310171424	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310171434	Thank you. This draft law is a follow-up to the 2013 SU reform. There are, which is very natural, a number of areas where adjustments are needed. It is good that the possibility of SU being taken care of for targeted upper secondary courses in engineering and similar technical courses is being addressed. We have a clear need to train more people from technical training, and at least it should not be the SU rules that limit the motivation for such training. In the proposal there are some minor changes to the threshold for parental income dependent SU, and there are changes to the maximum free amount for trainees who cannot receive SU on the sixth secondary education. At the same time, the draft law states that there are no economic consequences of the proposal. I'm a little puzzled about that. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If you change the limit on parental income, there must be young people who will receive a different SU than they would otherwise receive. It could therefore be useful to clarify the economic consequences for both the state and young people during the committee work. Finally, there is an increased legal basis for obtaining income information on the income of a trainee and his family member in order to determine whether the trainee meets the requirements as an employed, self-employed or family member of an employed person as a self-employed person under EU law. In the Danish People's Party, we still believe that there is a need to take a stand with the EU on this point too, so that we can decide for ourselves who should be entitled to the SU in Denmark, but in isolation and in relation to the practice resulting from the EU judgments given, it is satisfactory that we do at least what we can to ensure that the requirements for being eligible to be the SU recipient are complied with. In these words, we in the Danish People's Party are looking forward positively to the committee reading of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310171618	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, coming in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310171629	Thank you. I shall make our views known on behalf of our rapporteur, Liv Holm Andersen. The draft law we are discussing today, as several rapporteurs have already explained, is also supported by the Radical Left. The bill aims to make the SU system a little more flexible and functional. Most importantly, the draft law provides for the possibility of granting SU to individual subjects which are courses of access to the engineering training if the course, as in the case of upper secondary courses, is organized to be short and intensive even if this is not offered after the announcement of upper secondary education. In addition, the draft law brings about some minor and more technical changes which, however, aim at the same thing, namely to make the SU system more flexible and functional. These things are, in a radical fashion, all sensible and, as I said, the Radical Left can, of course, at the outset support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310171723	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310171731	I would just like to use the opportunity here to say that I am simply so fond of our SU system. And it is also the case that when you travel around the world and tell both business people and students how we have free access to education in Denmark, and that we can even get SU, it is one of the systems that amazes people, it excites enthusiasm, and it actually arouses a little envy. After all, the SU has two main reasons, both of which are about the fight against inequality: ensuring that as many people as possible take an education and ensuring that we have a system that allows people to train themselves economically. We have a system that assumes that it should not be the size of the parents' purse that determines whether you get an education and what education you get. Then we in the SF are particularly pleased with the point that gives SU eligibility for the supplementary course for technical education. It is for the sake of the approach to the courses and then there is the detail that I am very pleased about, among other things. because I am Greenland's rapporteur, namely that the bill ensures that DTU can still offer the admission course to diploma courses in Greenland. It is important that we maintain and support training in Greenland in favour of growth and the provision of skilled labour. Of course, in order to preserve our very unique SU system, we need to ensure that people do not exploit and abuse the system. There the Data Protection Agency has expressed concern about whether it is factual and necessary to grant access to the income register. The Minister has replied that it is both necessary and objective to collate the information if the Higher Education Agency is to be able to exercise continuous control so that the system is not misused. Care must be taken to ensure that other public authorities, etc. shall not, in so doing, have undue access to information which they do not need in the exercise of their authority. This particular part of the legislation we will be watching closely in the SF. However, we can support the draft law as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172003	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172011	Thank you. I would also like to start by grabbing hold of the part of the bill that we are very fond of in the Enhedslisten, namely that it will now be possible to obtain SU for supplementary courses for technical higher education, particularly the engineering and engineering training. That it should be possible to get the SU for the supplementary courses is something that we in the Enhedslisten have fought for too long. We think it's really nice that this bill opens it up. I would also like to say that I think it is actually very nice that the government, with this bill in general, recognises that you need some kind of financial support while you are a student and while you are taking an education. It's nice that that recognition is there now. That recognition was certainly not there when the government was in charge of the SU reform, which, as you know, took out 2.5 billion. kr. from State training aid. But it's nice that that recognition is now there to some extent. Like the FTF, we also see it in the Enhedslisten as a fine opportunity to raise the free amount for the young people who have to start their sixth youth education. We think it's a little patchy. The best solution for us to see had been simply to remove the rule that you max. must have the SU for five youth education courses. But this is an excellent patch solution. Like the Danish People's Party, we need clarification of what the proposal actually has in terms of economic consequences, both socio-economic and also for individual students, and we will of course raise this question in committee. But immediately we are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172156	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172202	Thank you. We are now dealing with L 149, and let me start by saying that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal, which is, of course, a technical adjustment to the existing SU system. The positive thing about this bill is that it might be possible to increase recruitment to technical education, and we see this as positive. When it comes to the way in which the draft law is drafted, we are a little surprised that the economic consequences of the draft law are not very well described. It may be that the Minister has a comment to make on it, because it is a proper thing to do, then, that you write it properly in a legislative proposal. When it comes to the entire SU system, we in the Liberal Alliance want to remove the ceiling on how much students can earn next to the SU. In relation to this proposal, but in general, we have concerns about the judgments handed down by the European Court of Justice. They are therefore pushing the Danish SU system very forcefully. It is quite good that Danish taxpayers pay SU to allow young people to concentrate on their studies, but it is equally important to demand from Danish taxpayers that they also have to pay SU to young people from all sorts of other parts of the European Union. So it is a huge concern that we have and we want the government to put much more effort into doing something about that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172350	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Finally, Mr President, it is the Conservative rapporteur. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172359	As the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Per Stig Møller, unable to be here, I have promised to read his speech as rapporteur. This bill concerns the SU scheme and contains some adjustments to the agreement that we reached with the government in 2013 on reform of the SU system. This means that the rates are harmonised and the proposal adds to the extension of the SU to students supplementing the secondary school with individual subjects providing access to engineering courses of short and intensive duration. That seems reasonable. We need talented engineers. In addition, it will be easier to create access courses for engineering training and similar technical training. That is also reasonable for the same reason. There are adjustments in the rules on parental income, which may also be reasonable when we Conservatives want a society where we do not conform to 10%. of the population has to pay 90 per cent. of the population. In addition, there is a change in the free amount in cases where the student has already started five upper secondary education courses with SU support. This too may be reasonable, since we want students to complete their studies more quickly, which is by no means the case when many changes are made. On the other hand, it would probably be reasonable for us to look more closely at the SU of our students who have chosen to study abroad, whose course of study does not necessarily correspond to the Danish one. Here we need to look at the flexibility of services, since we want more young people to take part in their education abroad. With these comments we can agree to the proposal, but we would therefore like to have the Minister's reaction to the problems of SU for young people studying abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172533	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then the Minister for Education and Research has the opportunity to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172542	Thank you both for the floor and for the speeches in the debate. The draft law that we have discussed, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned, contains a number of proposals which will allow the SU rules to be more closely linked in the future. In the context of the reform of the SU system and the framework for study implementation in 2013, it was assumed that students with a secondary education will no longer be able to obtain SU for individual subjects at hf and upper secondary level. At the same time, the possibility of SU for upper secondary education, that is, what we call GSK, was limited to short intensive courses only, and only if the courses were offered after the Order on upper secondary education, the GS Order. The specific admission course to the engineering training is not offered under the GS regulation, and that is why the reform meant that access to the SU for individual subjects for the admission course to the engineering training was abolished. We must openly recognise that was not appropriate and that is why we want to change the law. The draft law then creates the legal basis for allowing SU to be given to individual subjects for the admission course to the engineering training, if the course is thus organised briefly and intensively, and at the same time we use this bill to do a number of minor things, including to clarify the conditions for the provision of access courses to the engineering and other technical training courses which are specifically intended for the engineering master's training, which was also mentioned. Then there are a number of other changes of a slightly more technical nature. The most important things I can mention are a rule that the maximum free amount should apply when a student cannot get SU for his upper secondary education, because the student has previously received SU for more than five upper secondary educations, and rules on obtaining information from the income register and coordinating the information for control purposes, as the SF's rapporteur said. All of which I think are quite sensible changes that just need to make things a little better. Then there were a number of more factual questions from some of the rapporteurs on the economy and others. What I suggest we answer in writing. As regards SU for Danish students abroad, this is a slightly different issue. We have very favourable conditions for Danish students. You can get SU for up to 4 years of education abroad. I think that is quite excellent. We also hope, and it is also one of the ideas of going abroad to study, that you bring back those experiences, but it is of course a discussion that we can always have. I just don't think it should be done in the context of this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172903	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172921	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Beazley. Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310172949	Thank you. In the late 1990s, the then government decided to make a comprehensive and thorough groundwater survey in Denmark. The work was to take about 10 years, and it was decided to charge a fixed tax per cubic metre of water to pay the cost. After 10 years, it had to be noted that this work had not been fully completed and therefore it has been continuously extended until 2015. The general survey of groundwater has now been completed. Some tasks still remain in connection with new drinking water drilling, but in general we have got a very good picture of our groundwater bodies. That's why it's time to gear this job down. The focus must be on development, but in general it must be geared down, as the knowledge has been acquired, and thus the charges levied for this area can also be reduced. At the start, a position and a model were agreed, and I can say that we in the Left agree with it. From a number of sides, there has been a demand for a coordination group to be attended by stakeholders and experts, and we are pleased that the Minister has responded to this request and has set up the group in question. The regions have then perhaps seen the possibility of extending their area of responsibility and work. I still think it is true that we are keeping the main effort in this area of state and municipality. However, in this context, I would just like to point out that we have a couple of hanging parties around the state administration of this. There are some questions about definitions of groundwater and drinking water directives and the way we deal with them at home. We believe and hope that there will be satisfactory answers to this from the Commission and from the neighbouring countries that we are currently checking to see how they have handled it. But from the general point of view, we have to say that the Left supports this proposal. We will ask some questions during the committee work, but we are generally positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310173207	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then we go straight to Mr. Social Democrats. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310173215	Thank you. Of course, on the socialist side, we are also very concerned about groundwater mapping. It is about ensuring clean drinking water, and the prerequisite for protecting the groundwater we have is, of course, that we have a good overview of where it exists and what else needs to be taken of precautions. That is why we welcome the work that has been set in motion, as the rapporteur of the Left also said a very long time ago under the previous government of this color, which has been extended and improved and expanded along the way. It can be said that if we had not done anything now, this survey would have expired, and when you follow the debate around it may sound as if we are scalping down on the groundwater mapping. And yes, it is true, understood in that way that when we reach as Mr. Henrik Høegh says that we have formed most of the overview, it is a minor task that remains. However, it is not the case that we are shutting down something here; on the contrary, we are saying that if we move on to 2020, we will have an even better overview than what we have now. And, of course, there are still new occurrences; new areas still need to be recovered, and that is why we think it is sensible to continue the effort, albeit at a slightly lower level. When we have come this far, and when we continue mapping at a slightly lower level, it is also true, of course, that it does not take quite so many hours, quite so much work, and that is why, of course, we do not have to pay quite so much, and that is why I think it is sensible, as the Minister for the Environment has also suggested, that we lower taxes. Because it is not as such intended to bring in more money than it costs to make the effort. However, we warmly support the continuation of the mapping because we believe it is necessary to have an even better overview. We think it is sensible to do so with less money and therefore levy a lower tax. And we look forward to discussing the extent to which we have achieved our goal when we come to 2020. At present, however, I think it is right that we should give it another stage, as it were. Then it has been discussed whether the task is proper under state auspices. And that is where we believe that it must be a uniform procedure and that we must also ensure the same quality throughout the country, that it makes sense to keep it under state control. But, of course, it is also true, as the Minister for the Environment has added, that local regional stakeholders can easily be involved in the work to be done. And that is why there is this accompanying group to which the rapporteur of the Left has also referred. In general terms, we can also see from the consultation answers that there is great satisfaction in the fact that a survey is being made. We can see that it is important for a great many, not only citizens, but also organisations, that we take good care of our groundwater, and therefore this effort is really, really important. The Socialists support the proposal and, of course, look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310173515	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310173523	Thank you. We also support the proposal in the Danish People's Party. It is fine that we have a groundwater survey so that we know what is out there, and we also think that it is quite fine to reduce the tax. Just when I read it, I thought, it's gonna be great, now my water's gonna be cheaper. But then I sat there, and I figured it out a little, because the saving is approx. Twenty-eight cents apiece. cubic meters, and such an average household with two adults and two children uses 170 m3 per year. At least I remember we were counted for that before we got water meters. So that's 47 kroner. and 60 cents a year, and then I thought that it was bad enough for a movie ticket anyway; but if nothing else you save a little money, and a little is right. So I think that is a good thing and, of course, under no circumstances should we charge more money than necessary. So that's a good way to do it. The proposal also contains an authorisation for the Minister for the Environment. I have said this before, and I say this to all ministers just so that the Minister for the Environment does not think that it is only her that I am after, so it is not that in general I do not think that ministers should be given too many powers, but of course that is something I am asking about, because you should not wear too small shoes either. I have a small comment to make, and that is in relation to a consultation answer, namely where the regions clearly believe that they should have the task rather than the Nature Agency. Now it is the case in the Danish People's Party that we prefer to see the regions closed down. That is what I would call an intermediate solution compared to when we went from the counties to the five regions we now have. However, one might ask a question, because the regions make an argument that says that when we are already working on soil pollution, when we are already working on raw materials, is it not also clever that we are working on groundwater? There may be a fine argument in that. Conversely, one can also say that perhaps it is time for soil pollution and raw materials to come under the state or under the Danish Nature Agency together with groundwater, so that if one needs to use the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's argument, one ensures a uniform level, which is the argument that exactly the mapping here should be in the Danish Nature Agency. But we're gonna have to see if we get it all together sometime. There could be a good synergy in that, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310173753	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310173803	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Danish groundwater is one of the things the Danes have the very highest thoughts on and will protect the most. There may also be reason to envy us, because when you travel out into the world, you can see in many places that it is not at all the quality of water you can get from the taps. There are very many places in the world where you can't drink water from the tap, and there are many places where it tastes like chlorine. Therefore, it is also very important that we have the reserves we have, and that is why groundwater mapping is a prerequisite for protecting our resources, and that is what must now continue, but at a reduced rate, one can say, but it is really important that the mapping can continue for the next five years because we are not completely finished. There has been a lot of consultation response to the bill, and one of them went on to see how it is that you can get some of the different stakeholders in the water industry with you, which is why it is very good that a coordination group is being set up that has representatives from both KL, Danske Regioner, DANVA, the Association of Waterworks and GEUS, so that there are the various stakeholders and actors in keeping track of our groundwater reserve and also mapping what may be missing. When we need to open new boreholes, it is very important that there is coordination. With those words, I can only say that the Radical Left naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174009	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it is the Socialist People's Party rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174023	Thank you. SF is also very pleased that we will have the effort extended. That, as my radical colleague also mentioned, is one of the most important things we have: our nature, our clean water. It's something that many envy us around the world. So we think it is a proper priority to continue groundwater mapping until 2020 instead of stopping now, and that is why, in short, we support the legislative proposal. It is difficult as a non-professional to assess whether the level has been set correctly. For example: the formation of groundwater in these years is changed due to heavy rainfall. Groundwater can find a different distribution and stand higher than normal. This means that old pollutants will be mobilised and penetrate groundwater, which we would like to use as drinking water. This can mean both the creation of new boreholes and the elimination of groundwater deposits from drinking water resources. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether, when determining the level, the impact of climate change has been taken into account, i.e. whether the level of action is, as it were, adapted to climate change. I would also like to ask the Minister about the definition of the borehole protection areas, the BNBOs. Is it the Minister's expectation that the BNBOs will come on their own, because the funding of the mapping will be handled in another way, and can the Minister state whether she expects the BNBOs to be in place everywhere? I would like to rephrase this: are all drinking water wells protected by a BNBO by 2020? And I would also very much like to send my questions over in writing. However, SF is very pleased that we are continuing our efforts until 2020 and supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174215	Thank you to the SF's rapporteur, and then it is Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, speaking for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174228	Unfortunately, our rapporteur cannot be here today, so I will read his speech. The Unity List agrees that it is necessary to continue State groundwater mapping after 2015 in order to ensure targeted protection of groundwater. The unitary list is therefore prepared to vote in favour of L 155, although we believe that it would have been much more sensible to ensure groundwater mapping after 2020. Here we agree with what is said in a large number of consultation responses which indicate that this will be absolutely necessary. We are uncertain whether the location of the authority task in connection with the groundwater mapping under the state is the best possible location. At any rate, we have noted that there can also be arguments for a location within the regions, so that it will be the overall management of groundwater resources in relation to the soil and raw material area. We are going to drill a little in that during the committee work. We have noted that the government has taken account of the need to set up a national coordination group in this area. We think that this could be included in the draft law, but the most important thing is that it should be put in place. The Enhedslisten considers it important to maintain the existing data base and is therefore satisfied that the government, after consulting the bill, has clarified this. The Enhedslisten believes that consideration should be given not to reducing the revenue from the current contribution to drinking water protection, but instead to using the surplus revenue for preventive measures: the designation of drilling areas, the so-called BNBO, and the establishment of spray-free zones in connection with them. All in all, we are positive about the draft law, but we are happy to contribute to further improvements in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174415	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174423	Although it may seem difficult to see the need for legislation in this area, because it must be natural for water companies and municipalities to exchange information to the state as a card authority, we choose to take a positive view of the proposal. We assume that this will be clarified during the preparation of the law, and there are a number of powers that can be a little difficult to understand the consequences of. We have noted that the draft law leads to a continuation and reduction of the drinking water contribution. This is a consequence of the reduced tasks around the groundwater mapping after 2015 and the municipal follow-up effort planning. In any case, unlike Enhedslisten, we have no objection to setting rates. We have also noted that it is a question of ensuring greater clarity with regard to the role of municipalities in the water supply, and these adjustments seem, of course, sensible. For these reasons, we are in favour of the proposal, but, as I said, we would like to know whether it is really necessary to legislate here and what precise consequences the authorisation may subsequently have for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174537	Thank you. And then, finally, it's sir. Daniel Rugholm for the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174545	Thank you. Clean drinking water is one of the great qualities of living in Denmark. Groundwater mapping is therefore very important for both the protection and development of our drinking water, and it was set in motion back in 2000. Following some extensions, efforts were planned to be completed by the end of 2015, but there is a need to maintain the level of protection and identify possibilities for new boreholes and also to review previously mapped areas from time to time. But the task is smaller now and therefore the effort is also adjusted. So does the contribution. Today there is a charge of 67 cents per annum. m 3 It shall be reduced per year. 1 January 2016 to 39 øre and further reduced to 19 øre per year. m 3 January 2018. Unlike Enhedslisten, we think it is really, really positive, and although Mrs Pia Adelsteen was not so enthusiastic about the 47 DKK, there are also many big consumers for whom it has a huge effect and where it can turn into many thousands of kroner. The contribution to the effort will lapse by the end of 2020, and then we will have to have the same discussion as we have today, if necessary. However, the Conservative People's Party supports the efforts and also the changes that we are discussing today. We can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174706	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310174714	First of all, thank you very much for the broad support for the bill here. I think it is gratifying that there is such a broad consensus in the Folketing on continuing groundwater mapping, which is of course a very important element in the protection of our drinking water. Last week, Altinget had an opinion poll on which environmental problems the Danes think are the biggest and the most important, and of all the environmental problems that were involved, the Danes are most concerned about whether drinking water is being contaminated. That is why we have a very relevant legislative proposal here today. It is simply about the very basis of our clean drinking water, namely our groundwater. As several speakers have said, this proposal builds on and is in the immediate continuation of the policy of changing governments, which has meant that Danish groundwater is a distinctive feature of Denmark. This is one of the things we can boast about in Denmark, namely that, unlike other countries, we can actually pump our groundwater virtually uncleaned into our taps and drink it without fear of our health. This is, of course, also one of the reasons why we can export our water solutions to the rest of the world. But with this bill, we will continue the mapping of our groundwater from 2015 to 2020. So if we extend this by five years, and as several have also mentioned, we can then choose to extend it if necessary. But we need that time to map out the 20-40 new drinking water wells that are being set up every year. In this way, we are becoming increasingly aware of our groundwater and how best to protect it. At the same time, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, we are gradually reducing the contribution that we are all paying for the protection of drinking water, which is now 67 cents per annum. cubic meter, to 19 cents per. cubic meters in the period from 2018 to 2020. It is therefore on the basis of the fact that the scale of the task will be reduced, and therefore it is also natural that we should reduce the tax we pay for that task. We have then made some choices along the way in this process, among others. the fact that the mapping will now be extended until 2020 and that we will then decide what is to happen. We have considered that we will not give Denmark a permanent cost without being absolutely sure whether it is needed in the future, so we therefore think it is natural, and that is also in line with the way this has been done so far. It has always been a time-limited task, and so it is not a question, as some have said in the debate that has at least been in the media, of restricting ourselves now. On the contrary, if we do not adopt a bill now, this task will end at the end of 2015. We have then also chosen that the state should continue as the responsible authority in this area, rather than, as some have wanted, moving responsibility to the regions. It is, of course, a choice that has advantages and disadvantages, but we consider that we will achieve greater uniformity in implementation and, above all, less bureaucracy by keeping the task in the state and avoiding further steps in this task of authority. On the other hand, we have listened to the consultation responses, in which we wanted to create this coordination group, where we then involve representatives from the municipalities, from the regions, from Denmark, from FVD and GEUS, where we can then discuss the momentum of groundwater mapping and, of course, ensure that we have good and open coordination in this area. However, I would like to be brief and thank you for the broad support for the proposal. Of course we are happy to answer the questions raised during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310175107	There are questions. Sir. Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310175112	Now I am not going to destroy the brotherhood and prolong the debate. I would just like to express a slight frustration about the comments made by the draft law in the section entitled 'Economic impact on the public sector'. When you look at the table, as long as you charge 67 cents, you have a deficit of between 70 and 75 million. kr. When we get to only 19 cents, you have a profit of 45-50 million. kr. The text says something about money between the Treasury and the Ministry of the Environment. I just want to mention that I think we should ask a few questions about that. At first glance, it seems a little difficult for such an ordinary parliament politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310175148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310175152	I would recommend that we do so in writing. I think that's a really good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310175155	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310175209	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 17 March 2015. For reasons of explanatory statement, it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk, UFG.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310175241	I would like to give a brief explanation of why I have proposed this debate. The reason is quite simply that I have repeatedly seen a mix of sport and politics, and that we have seen a large number of major international sporting events, how countries have used the event in question to strengthen their own identity, often at the expense of human rights. This is not a new phenomenon. Sport has also been used politically throughout history. Not to mention too many in the historical row, but we saw it all the way back in 1936 with the Olympics. I myself have had it very close to life in connection with the European Championship in Ukraine in 2012, we saw it at the winter Olympics as recently as 2014, and we have seen it in connection with the Handball World Cup in Qatar. So what has been my intention to propose this debate is, of course, to say that regardless of who sits in government, whoever is in opposition, one must find a way to navigate this tension between sport and politics. So how do we ensure that we do so in the most intelligent way, while standing up for human rights and not legitimising the host country in question by virtue of our participation? How do we do the most intelligent and thoughtful? So I look forward to the debate, but this was my explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310175430	Thank you. And then it is the Minister of Culture for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310175440	Thank you. After all, the debate on questions gives us the opportunity to deal with a number of issues relating to the choice of host country for major sporting events, and this gives me the opportunity to stress some of these points. The government believes that the international conventions on human rights must be respected at all times, and we are working for this in all relevant international fora. And I dare say that governments in Denmark do so regardless of the colour of the government. The government believes that sport should not be used politically. Sport is basically play and engages in a noble competition, where practitioners and spectators meet about their pensions, about sport across diversity. Therefore, sport creates communities, and therefore sport is good at bringing people together across nations, cultures, religions and political standings. That is why it is important for sport and sportspeople to be aware of the integrity of sport. There is fair play, sport is play, and sport develops talents that strive to be the best in the club, in the country, in the world. The integrity of sport is emptied together by communities, by democratic openness and by transparency. It is the international sports organisations that place the hostage of international sporting events. Both Danish and international sports organisations are private organisations based on member democracy, and therefore their actions must be influenced through member democracy, and therefore the leaders of sports organisations must be politically accountable to their members. As a state, as a democracy, we must respect freedom of association, but as politicians we can have expectations that sports organisations behave democratically and base themselves on values such as democracy, transparency and fair play. The Danish organisations carry these very values with them into the international sports organisations that is my conviction. I hope that they will set an ethically sound agenda and thus influence the decisions of international sports organisations from within. That is what I expect Danish sports organisations to do at any time. I also expect Danish sports organisations, under the auspices of international sports organisations, to denounce threats to the integrity of sport, such as corruption, abuse of power, doping, match fixing and violations of human rights, to name some key threats. In the relevant international forums, the government will continue to engage in dialogue with governments that do not respect international conventions and human rights. That is what we have been calling direct critical dialogue for decades. For example: under the auspices of the United Nations Human Rights Council, the government has taken a second initiative, criticising the lack of rights of immigrant workers in Qatar. After all, Qatar is hosting a number of major sporting events in these years. The United Nations has decided to support the Danish proposal that Qatar should amend its legislation so that workers' rights are better protected. Similarly, we in Denmark and the EU have publicly criticised Russian legislation on homosexuals in connection with Russia's hosting of the Winter Olympics in Sochi in 2014. To this end, we, under the auspices of the European Union, have raised the issue in our dialogue with Russia. These are important issues, regardless of whether major sporting events are taking place that we put on the international agenda. The government will also continue its efforts to put pressure on international sports organisations to work for democracy and transparency. We do so when we support Play the Game, which is an association under the auspices of the Sports Analysis Institute, and we do so on an ongoing basis in relevant international forums. In terms of influencing international sports organisations, I see it as a force when Denmark is united with other governments, which is why the government is seeking to focus precisely on good governance, good governance, human rights and social responsibility in sports organisations together with other countries. In 2013, Denmark signed a joint declaration with 18 other EU Member States. The Declaration recognises sport as an opportunity to combat discrimination, as well as helping to create respect, diversity, tolerance and justice. Furthermore, the declaration calls on all States participating in major sporting events to respect human rights. The declaration was also a starting point for a discussion on how the government can exert pressure on international sports organisations in favour of the organisation of sporting events in countries that respect human rights. Following the EU's work plan for sport, Denmark participates in the EU's work on good governance, good governance, and among other things. Denmark is part of a working group which develops guiding principles on democracy, human rights and labour rights in sport, including in connection with the award of major sporting events. Together with the other European ministers responsible for sport, I have focused at the Council of Europe's Sports Ministers Conference on good governance and the fight against corruption in sport. Denmark has both at ministerial meetings and in sub-committees in UNESCO adopted a statement of sports ministers and participated in the drafting of a sports charter which includes the fight against corruption and the promotion of social responsibility and human rights. So we can stand firm on our Danish values such as democracy, transparency and fair play, and we must. It can be fascinating either to stay away from sporting events that are used to strengthen the reputation of the host country at the expense of human rights, or to decide that Danish sports organisations should vote for certain host countries in the name of democracy. But both will be problematic. Boycotting Danish participation primarily affects Danish athletes, who are deprived of their ability to compete and strive to become the best in the world • what they have trained and trained to achieve. The meaning of that sport and the training that they have spent so much time on is lost. To determine the position of private associations in private organizations is not worthy of a democratic country. The associations must and must shoulder their responsibilities, but we must do what we can to press for openness and transparency in all sports organisations, and we must use the relevant international forums to set the agenda of good governance and focus on human rights, openness and democracy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310180147	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. There are no questions for the Minister of Culture here now. There can be the first one in the last round if the Minister of Culture goes up there. Then we'll go to the debate, and that's Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk, rapporteur for the questioners or the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310180213	I haven't started using the wording we're still saying I'm just saying I am. I would actually like to start with a personal story from when I was Minister for Culture and experienced this issue at the closest level, when I was going to Ukraine, where there was a European Football Championship, in order to give support as Minister and public representative to our athletes who were going down and hopefully win. At that time, I saw a dilemma, because how do we back up our sports organisations on the one hand and, on the other hand, give a clear signal to the host nation that there were some problems with respect for human rights? The way I and the government chose to do this was to use the opportunity both before and after the football match itself to talk to human rights activists to support them in the challenges they faced and as a representative of not only Denmark but also the EU, say that we support you and focus on you. In addition, I chose not to sit up in the VIP lounge and thereby legitimize the host, but instead sat down to the Danish football fans. The paradoxical consequence was that as a minister I was thrown down by DBU's plane and that they did not want the Minister of Culture to take part. Because when I didn't want to sit with the other VIP guests, I was no longer part of their arrangement. In a sense, it presents one of the dilemmas we face, regardless of who is in government and in opposition, namely, on the one hand, to back up a free sports life, as we must of course, and, at the same time, to express our political views towards those host countries which do not respect human rights. And what I am curious to hear my colleagues about in today's debate is where our pain limit lies. Can we get into a situation where we say that we do not actually want to participate, and is it something we do as a nation, or is it something we do at EU level? What are the other countries doing? What's our own position in that? We are facing the World Cup in Qatar in 2022, and the figures coming from Amnesty International say, among other things, that it is expected that by 2022 at least 4 000 of the construction workers who help build the various stadiums down there will be dead because of the working conditions they are being offered. So I think we're about to figure out how to deal with this. When are we gonna fall into our pain limit of what we're gonna do? Even if we try to separate sports and politics. One of the things that could perhaps be called on of our sports organisations was, among other things, one of them. to say that, like a large number of private companies today, they actually have annual accounts in relation to human rights and go down and look at the working conditions of the subcontractors they use, one could imagine that they did the same in the world of sport, so that one actually began to look at how one has used one's organisation to make some of these demands that host countries respect human rights. So I think we are in a discussion where there are no easy solutions and where we should start from the specific situation without in any way being insecure. But I think we owe it to each other to discuss this difficult question of how, on the one hand, we continue to guarantee the independence of sport and, at the same time, do not run and legitimise host nations in which we cannot in any way see ourselves, because it is so clearly documented that they do not live up to human rights. I am very, very much looking forward to the debate and hope that together we will be able to deal with these issues which, as I said, are absolutely not easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310180712	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310180724	Thank you for that, and also thank you to Mr. Uffe Elbæk for raising this query debate, which I actually think is both relevant, exciting and interesting. So I am pleased that we can have a good and hopefully constructive discussion on the whole issue of Denmark's participation in major sporting events, where the host country often uses the international sporting event to strengthen its reputation in the world at the expense of human rights, for example. Let me start by making it clear that this, as sir. Uffe Elbæk also mentioned, of course, is not a new issue. This is an issue that we have often encountered in various sporting events; it is a problem that we have seen many, many times before; and it is also a problem that I think we will be discussing after today. However, it is all the more important that we should also take the debate politically, which is why I am delighted that we have it here today. I would like to point out what Mr. Uffe Elbæk himself also mentioned, namely the European Football Championship in 2006, which was held both in Poland and Ukraine. That's where we saw Mr. Uffe Elbæk, who was Minister for Culture at the time, is in the middle of a politically highly explosive debate. It was because we all heard the stories of the Ukrainian authorities who abused opposition politician Julija Tymoshenko and also condoned a large number of other violations of human rights, among others. against homosexuals and others. This simply underlines once again the need for sports organisations to take this a little more seriously and to go into it in a little more detail than they may have done up to now. Perhaps they should also discuss whether some ethical guidelines should be drawn up as to how such assemblies should be held. Earlier this year it also emerged that Qatar offers training camps for the DBU youth national team. In May 2014, DBU sent several youth national teams 5 days to Qatar at training camps at the oil state sports academy. These were travels paid exclusively by Qatar itself. I actually think that's really, really dangerous. By receiving such expensive gifts in the form of training camps, DBU risks becoming a pawn in the oil state's major political game. The gifts are used actively to improve Qatar's reputation, which is not exactly the most positive of all. We have often seen examples of charges of corruption, and several organisations and politicians have made a strong criticism of violations of human rights. So the examples of the problems of Denmark's participation at major sporting events in the country, where conditions are critical, are in fact almost queued. This testifies to the importance of the debate on Denmark's future participation. It is important that we discuss the problems openly and that we do not allow ourselves to be intimidated and thus skip the discussions. We are faced with a wide range of future sporting events that can be very debatable, including not least a controversial World Cup in 2022, where Qatar is also hosting and where the issue will of course arise. So I have the clear view that sports and sports organisations must have a broad debate about Denmark's participation in sporting events that are used to strengthen the reputation of the host country at the expense of human rights. And that is why it is also positive that today we can hopefully send a clear signal to the various organisations in Denmark that the debate should be opened now. For the Left, it is certainly important that we make it very, very clear that we will not actively enter and legitimise corrupt regimes that do not respect human rights. We therefore look forward to the various sports organisations in Denmark discussing constructively how and how the future Danish participation in sporting events should be, and we would strongly support such work being as wide, as thorough and as effective as possible. However, it is also important to keep in mind that this is perhaps the most important thing in this case that you should dare to take the debate, even if it is difficult. In the light of this, I would like to make the following comments on behalf of V, DF, LA and KF: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the sovereign decision by international sports organisations on the location of the host of international sporting events and is therefore responsible for the decisions taken. The Danish Parliament declares itself ready to support with advice and skill Danish sports organisations in their fight for fair play and against corruption, nepotism, abuse of power, doping, medical overuse and match fixing. The Danish Parliament is behind the efforts of successive governments to put pressure on governments which do not offer the sport of both women and men freedom of expression against the idea of sport. • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20150310181255	Thank you. A proposal for adoption has now been tabled and will be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310181308	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for his presentation. I have one question. After all, the rapporteur said very clearly what it is that the Left would like the sports organisations to do in order to become clearer and clearer in their policy in this area, but does the Left have any reflection on what can be made of demands on a given government when Denmark chooses to take part in events in, for example, Ukraine in its time, Russia recently and Qatar in the future? Should some demands also be made on the government in relation to the government's attitude when we participate in these events?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310181346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310181349	Thank you for the question. I understand very well why Mr. Uffe Elbæk raises it because he has, if anyone, experienced how it is a problem. And I also clearly acknowledge that I have been doing this for years, that this is a difficult issue and that it is therefore not easy just to say that here is a manual that fits all events. For there will of course be a difference from event to event • also in relation to how and how a possible Danish, we should call it non-participation in such an event could unfold. So I will not stand here and say that there is some kind of manual for all future World Cup and Olympic events, etc., which I would recommend. On the other hand, I would recommend that, and this is what I was trying to do in my speech, we should allow sports organisations to draw up ethical guidelines on how they participate, how events are chosen, and then, once the ethical guidelines have been adopted, we can discuss with politicians how and how we do this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310181444	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310181454	Thank you for that, President. As the Social Democrats' Sports Rapporteur for several years, I have been in the discussion that we have here on several occasions, in other words on international sporting events, and on human rights and corruption, are involved in major sporting events. That is why I would like to thank the alternative for raising this debate today. Many times it has had the ring of domestic political debate, as to whether or not we should boycott sporting events and events. It has always been possible to question whether human rights in a host country have been respected or suppressed, or whether there has been suspicion of corruption in that country, which has decided why a sporting event has come to that particular country, for example. The times I have been involved in discussing this have been the view of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament that boycotting sporting events is not a good thing. It mainly affects sport, and we do not want it. However, we want us to make use of all other means to promote good behaviour in sport, even when setting the framework for the events. Human rights must be respected. If it were not to be heard from all parties from this platform in the country that has the least degree of corruption in the world and where we pay tribute to goodness and humanism, how would that sound? I also think it is a good thing that we are having the debate today, because in relation to this political affair, where we say that we take the critical dialogue when we are in purely diplomatic dialogue with other countries, I would say: yes, we have to do that. And we just heard from Mr. Uffe Elbæk, how to do it. However, we have also heard from the Minister for Culture how, in the context of the European Union, we also, when we had the Presidency, helped to establish that the sports agenda is an important agenda to set in relation to good conduct and good governance. We note with great satisfaction on the part of the Socialists that this work is developing in the European Union and that we in Denmark also have working groups to promote this good framework. Because it's the Danish set of values, so this is because we don't want corruption, we want properness. And that is why I would also like to express my personal pleasure, but as we also have politically with the Socialists, that we have the organisation Play the Game, based in Denmark, to speak in favour of the good cause and good conduct. It is a good exponent to the values that we as a country stand for and that we want to help draw the international sport profile and the life that needs to be. And I am also very pleased that Play the Game and Idan are helping to target and flesh out the effort needed to promote the good qualities of sport and sport. Then there are already two rapporteurs who have mentioned the expectation that the great sports organisations in Denmark will assume their responsibilities, have an ethical set of rules, that they comply with it, that they enforce it, that they speak it and make it sound the most natural thing, that it is the framework from which they work. Yeah, that's what it takes. I also note that the bodies that we have that examine the possibility of doing the right thing say that dialogue and direct political influence are best served by being involved. And that is what I think we should be aiming for, and that is why I also think it is very good that we have bodies and forces working to ensure that sports organisations are given posts, that they have international sensitivity when they come out and can help set the right agenda. For corruption, abuse of power, doping, match fixing and non-compliance with human rights do not match what is Danish mentality. And that is why I am very pleased that we have dealt with legislative proposals in this Chamber in order to have a very high standard in Danish legislation precisely on the points I have mentioned here. I shall read out a proposal for adoption, and it is on behalf of the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Social Democrats: proposals for adoption The Parliament believes that international human rights conventions must be respected at all times. The Folketing is concerned that sport and politics are mixed together by the organisation of international sporting events. The Danish Parliament notes that it is the international sports organisations that place the hostage of international sporting events and recognises that sports organisations are private communities of interest based on member democracy, and therefore the leaders of sports organisations are responsible for their decisions. The Danish Parliament therefore encourages Danish sports organisations to carry Danish values such as democracy, transparency, human rights and fair play into international sports organisations. The Danish Parliament expects Danish sports organisations under the auspices of the international sports organisations to reject threats to the integrity of sport, such as: corruption, abuse of power, overuse, doping, match fixing and violation of human rights. The Folketing is behind the government's work in putting pressure on governments that do not respect international human rights conventions, as well as international sports organisations to work for democracy and transparency. • V 32).
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182112	The proposed adoption will now be part of the further debate. There are questions. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182123	Thank you for the comments and opinions of the Social Democrat rapporteur, whom I agree with very much for good reasons, i.e. the reflections which Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen will come along with this question. What I would like to ask is: how can we, as politicians, which Parliament supports even better with regard to our sports organisations, so that they take these challenges even more seriously? Because that is not what they are doing, and we must also respect the fact that they are independent organisations, even though, as I have said, many of them receive public funding. How can we further raise this debate within sports organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182214	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk for the question. That is a very good question, and I can say it straight from my own experience. When we talk about a critical dialogue, when we are together two diplomats, I think that we can talk about critical dialogue quite the same way when, for example, we talk about critical dialogue. as sports rapporteurs, they are in dialogue with boards or chairmen or members of the major sports organisations. I have taken many opportunities to do this, of course in respect of their integrity, but also on the basis of saying what my political ulterior motives are, that I support the distribution policy in Denmark on the one hand, and on the other hand, helping to set up legislation against match fixing, against doping and other things, so that we know each other, know each other about attitudes, and have no difficulty in expressing what our positions are. I believe that they are much more careful to talk about that agenda too, because we can say human rights, yes, but we have also had situations in Denmark where sports organisations have been criticised for having been homophobic for example, and where that discussion has been taken on Danish soil, but it is exactly the same that applies if they are involved in sports events in nations where the host country has a policy that is not in flight with human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182343	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182345	I very much agree with the answer I have received here but have also noted, and it was so specifically in the wake of the hands-ball World Cup in Qatar, that several players in the press said that they actually missed us, as politicians, being clearer in our criticism of the host country, and thus also called for even greater pressure on their own sports organisations. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182417	Thank you. I think that it is very good that we have the debate and the dialogue here today, because nothing can be expressed more clearly politically anywhere than from this platform, and then I just hope that those handball players will hear our debate and that our debate today will have a life so that sports organisations bring political opinions to their members. But otherwise I think that some of what they can do and what I think they should do, and what I also mentioned, is that, for example, the Danish Sports Association's ethics committee, that is, the life they have, the duty they have, must be something that is high on an agenda when politics is discussed, for example, from the Danish Sports Association.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182502	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen. No, it's a mistake). Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310182516	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk, because the debate has been raised. It's very exciting, and it's also very hard to find out. I believe that the idea of creating such a set of rules is almost impossible, for, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk himself said that we must take that piece by piece and arrangement for the event and then, of course, raise the political objections that we now have against it. So it is a dilemma, and it is, no matter what government sits. Sir. Uffe Elbæk portrayed how he saw it as Minister of Culture himself. I remember it and the trip over there. I've never heard this about how he didn't get on the plane, but it makes it extra weird. But we all agree on the excellence of sport and what is so good about sport. One of the most important things is that everyone meets everyone with the background that everyone now has. You have to compete with everyone, preferably everywhere, and meet everyone. I think that is the idea of sport itself. I am so uplifted when I have been in the Middle East and seen Israeli and Palestinian boys and youth players play against each other and with each other in groups. I myself have also experienced in Kosovo how football could be used in some amazing ways. So no questions were asked in the struggles or among the leaders about what their rights are like and what they have of legislation at home. You just played football, and that's what I thought was so excellent. That is why I think it is essential to say that sport should never be slowed down in this way. The Minister for Culture mentioned what is called the integrity of sport. I think that is a good word, because there is also the fact that it has itself and it has to cope with itself on its own terms. If we do not like it as politicians, we must say so. We should not hold back our criticism of the event countries where it is now taking place. But the basic thing is that it is sport and the integrity of sport that you take care of your own affairs. The big shows have been mentioned. That is what is crucial. With the Olympic Games and the World Cup in football, which I believe are the two biggest international events, one can wonder at Qatar, and one can also criticise it for being a strange country to put it in. It is even dangerous for health to play there because it is so incredibly hot that you have to move it all to around New Year's time. That alone gives us cause for surprise. You can also fret about the times that have been boycotted. I still remember the Moscow Olympics in 1980, when the Americans disappeared. The Danes came to this place. It was while there was war between the Soviet Union and Afghanistan. The Americans were lost, and I thought it was such a pity for the American athletes who had spent not only 4 years, but perhaps 12 years or 15 years of their lives preparing for this convention and had been selected and could come along. I felt just as sorry for the Russians who got some gold medals there that they probably didn't deserve. They knew that. So it was for no one's benefit and joy, and I was very glad that Denmark did not follow the cart and was in the boycott at the time. After all, the Olympic Games are an eternal dilemma because once in the dawn of time it has been decided that the Olympics must always be opened by the head of state. It was a disgrace with Hitler, as has been mentioned. It was more cozy with King Harald in Norway when it was in Lillehammer. We would prefer it to be opened up by some decent people, but that is not always the case, and you have to put up with it. As I said, I believe that the athletes should be left alone. Never let them be held hostage to what we otherwise think politically. The individual athletes who say that they will then disappear have their own political views. Leave it to them, but we shouldn't impose anything on them in this sense. The Crown Prince is another subject which is of course interesting precisely because he has allowed himself to be elected to the International Olympic Committee. I mean, he should be there. I also believe that the ministers should be there, like the Minister for Culture, and, as in the case of the current Minister for Culture, you are there. Unlike some of those who have been on the platform today, I do not think we should use that opportunity to talk about what is called good governance. One imagines that one can sit there on the lathes and like have a good talk about it while playing, but it is illusory. It is better to keep a beard and snot and say that the Minister of Culture participates, of course she or he does, to support the Danish colours, just as the Crown Prince does, and that is it. The pressure that must then be put on the countries must be applied in other areas. So I think official Denmark should be part of it and do what you have to do. The main task is to support the Danish athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183056	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183101	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen for the speech. I thought it was such a nice speech, but he said very little about politics. So I will try to ask you about the difference between our proposal for adoption and your proposal for adoption. It is a question of human rights. So I would like to hear Mr. Søren Espersen about what Mr. Søren Espersen's opinion is when there are human rights problems, for example. Qatar or Azerbaijan, because I think we need to take a position on this. I just want to hear what Mr. Simpson said. Søren Espersen thinks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183139	But that is precisely why I believe that the proposal for adoption tabled by the majority goes wrong. After all, it is political to the extent that we are putting politics in the hands of sport. It says: the human rights conventions, the Danish values such as democracy, transparency and human rights. What if it is a place where there is no democracy at all and no transparency at all, then one should not be there? In other words, the majority's proposals for adoption are permeated by the violation of human rights, international sports organisations must work for democracy and transparency. But what about the sport? I mean, this is sports. It is based on the principle that we do not want to confuse sport and politics, and then what do we do? You mix sports and politics together. And that is what I think the proposal for adoption that we have from the bourgeois side is so wonderfully free from. It is a question of sport, and it is a question of saying that it is the sports organisations that are responsible. What you then put pressure on afterwards is a political matter that does not concern the game.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183249	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183250	I think we have a vertical disagreement. Is it we who confuse sport and politics, or is it not really Qatar's amir? Who is it that makes sure that more than a thousand people are dead before sports arenas are built up? Who is it that doesn't pay? Are they poor? No, it's a rich country. So is it us, or is it Qatar's emir, that really confuses sport and politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183322	Now try to turn it around, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr. Try to reverse it, for think if now Saudi Arabia, Yemen and Qatar boycotted an event in Denmark because we allowed the Mohammed drawings to be displayed. Would that be okay, because they look at it in a completely different way than we do? Or shouldn't we just say that let's do sports where we are now? If we're in Saudi Arabia, we do sports, and then the Danish national team plays there. And if Saudi Arabia is so kind as to come and play here with us, then they will. But if you start to relate it already now by saying that there are some countries we cannot be in because they look at everything quite differently than we do, turn it around and ask if we would accept it. They may think our system is an abomination, but I think they should come and play ball anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183411	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183414	I have just one question for the rapporteur, whom I consider to be a very sensible gentleman, who has a wide range of nuances in his opinions. But the thing that puzzles me is that sir... Søren Espersen so remarkably says: Sport here, politics here. We should not confuse things, even though we know that they are mixed together, and that many of our sportspeople also feel that they are in a dilemma when they take part in these kinds of events in host countries that suppress human rights, and when they actually want to be able to practice their sport and to be able to face up to the fact that Denmark is clearly marking a position and saying that this is not right. So it is actually experienced by the players as a support for them to be able to practice their sport at the highest level that Denmark actually says: This is not okay, but we are participating of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183517	I think sir... Uffe Elbæk is right that some will think so. On the other hand, I believe that some athletes will find it distressing that they should have it on top of the preparation they are preparing. I also think that in a way it is rude and unfair when the Danish press goes to the athletes where they are and asks: Do you not also think that it is quite a terrible country to be in? I understand that as a sportsman you can be irritated by it and may think that something is being put on your shoulders that is not fair. I kind of agree with those people. The second situation I can imagine could also be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183558	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183600	Well, that is precisely why it might be a wise decision to actually move that pressure away from the athletes, because they should not be confronted by all sorts of journalists asking them for their political attitude towards the host country, but that it is actually something that we, as a Parliament and a government, take on our cloak. That's our job if we want to make a mark. We should not oblige our athletes to take a stand on this level. I don't think so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183631	But what is it, sir? Uffe Elbæk will? Well, I haven't understood in that way that Mr. Uffe Elbæk will have a political intervention in relation to e.g. to participate in and participate in countries that so violate human rights. I don't understand. In other words, we accept that all the many countries in the world are different and look at things differently, and we welcome the fact that we can still be together on sport. So if you don't want to go so far as to say that we are making a political ban on Danish teams playing there and there, you really can't do anything but 'beard for yourself and snot for yourself' to say: let that event be where you play sports together and have it together, and then all the other talks are taken when you are in the political context with diplomats, but are also with politicians from each country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183729	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310183740	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Uffe Elbæk for taking the initiative on this question debate, because it is an important subject and it is a subject full of dilemmas. Because, on the one hand, all politicians here in the Danish Parliament and, in this way, I think, everyone in the Danish population is strongly opposed to countries which systematically violate human rights. On the other hand, we pay tribute to sport as the unifying force and a way of linking people across borders and cultural differences. In this schism we stand when we decide where and how we should stand when major international sporting events take place in countries which we know violate human rights to a greater or lesser extent. We have faced that dilemma a number of times, among other things. when the questioner himself was Minister for Culture, and it is a balancing act every time, and there is no firm answer to what we should do. But from a radical point of view, we are listening, among other things. much to the Institute for Human Rights, and they recommend that we should not boycott, as a starting point, by failing to provide sports event practitioners, as the cultural meeting, which is a sporting competition, is so important in terms of creating intercultural understanding. Should Danish politicians boycott such events? Yes, it must depend on the situation. But it must always be the objective that is the most important, and it is often considered that we are going further by coming forward, starting a critical dialogue with the country's representatives and possibly meeting with some of the critics or critical organisations in that country, and that is exactly what Mr. Uffe Elbæk did, when he was Minister of Culture and went to Ukraine when there was an EM in football here, and met with activists and opposition groups. As we also say in the text adopted by the Radical Left, it is the international sports organisations that place the hostage of international sporting events, and we expect to see violations of human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310184012	I would like to thank the rapporteur, but there were no questions. We move on to Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310184024	I, too, would very much like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank Mr. Uffe Elbæk for raising this very important discussion. After all, we know from Beijing in 2008, Sochi in 2014 and most recently the Handball World Cup in Qatar that there are some examples of how international sporting events have been exploited by the rulers. They are held with major consequences for the local population, and the labour which is often imported works in dire conditions. Basically, in the SF, we believe that it is important that we respect the autonomy of sports organisations and we should not confuse sport and politics. For one of the forces of sport is precisely the fact that, on the field, neither political, religious or sexual beliefs exist, but only focuses on sport. When you step into the field, everyone is equal. The same rules apply, regardless of whether the athletes come from China, Denmark, Kenya or Russia. But what about those situations where the rulers do not respect that separation, but instead use sports events to consolidate and demonstrate their non-democratic regime? Is there not a time when the contrast between the strong democratic values of Danish sport and the social conditions of the countries where prestigious global events are organised is somehow too great? Indeed, I think so, and that is why it is important that we take the discussion and that we dare to take the discussion here today. Danish sport has a very special strength thanks to the folk-enlightened starting point. Sport reflects some of our fundamental democratic values: respect for the individual, fair play, community and intercultural understanding, and Danish sport has a very high participation. There are very many who work voluntarily in sports associations, and at the same time there are also strong democratic management traditions. So yes, in Denmark we have a special responsibility. However, all these values I have just mentioned are unfortunately in stark contrast to the international tendency for the impact of sport to be abused more and more frequently for narrow policy-making purposes, either domestic or foreign policy. We see corruption and political abuse. We also see how, unfortunately, the international fight against doping and match fixing often becomes half-hearted. We are increasingly experiencing how newly-rich, authoritarian states with a dubious relationship with human rights choose massive economic efforts to secure global events and also mark positions of power in sport policy. Unfortunately, there is a similar trend towards democratic countries losing popular support for the increasing costs of infrastructure interventions that accompany the major events. These are really major challenges facing international sport. It is not the Folketing that can or must decide which nations may organise and participate in the various sporting events. The international sports organisations that place the hosts of international sporting events are private communities of interest, and that is why it is ultimately their leaders who have to answer for their decisions. It should be up to sports organisations themselves to ensure that the countries hosting the events do not violate human rights in the process of dismantling them, and it is also up to them to provide guidelines for dealing with situations in which the host nation does not yet respect human rights. On the other hand, however, we would like to encourage the Danish sports organisations to take on greater international responsibility and contribute with the knowledge and democratic culture of debate that has historically made Denmark a pioneering country in sport; at least a clear call to bid and secure a greater invitation than is already happening today. Danish sport generally has a good reputation as effective and corruption-free, while at the same time we have good experiences from the interaction between the public and the voluntary organisations, as we know it in Denmark, and many could learn from that. The Minister quite rightly pointed out that Denmark is already well at work, among other things. In cooperation with the UN Human Rights Council, in criticising the lack of rights of immigrant workers in Qatar and in criticising, among other things, the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Russia's legislation on homosexuals at the winter Olympics in Sochi last year. I would just like to make a quiet appeal here before we resort to boycotts, no matter how tempting it might be: now involve the groups that we want to work for; ask the homosexuals whether it is in their interests, for example, that they should be involved. boycotts, or can we use sporting events to highlight their particular situation as well? I am particularly pleased, as the Minister mentioned, that Denmark, together with 18 other EU countries, signed in 2013 the declaration recognising the good potential of sport to combat discrimination, as well as helping to promote diversity, tolerance, respect and justice, and that it also called for respect for human rights for all States participating in major sporting events. Finally, I would like to mention the adoption by UNESCO of the Sports Minister's Declaration and the drafting of the Sports Charter to combat corruption and promote social responsibility and human rights. We in the SF think this is a very good area of action which should be strengthened. So from the SF we are pleased with the debate today and we look forward to the process, for example. the adoption of the sports policy objectives. It would be obvious that we should also use this opportunity to encourage sports organisations to develop a global strategy to promote, for example, sport. ethics, democracy and sustainability, including in sport. We agree with the motion for a resolution that has been tabled and read out by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Flemming Møller Mortensen, and we look forward both to today's debate, but also to the fact that in future we will have our attention here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310184707	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310184710	I would just like to say briefly that I am pleased to hear the level of ambition of the SF in this area, and yet share a concern with the rapporteur. Because sometimes, when we have these discussions, it becomes very nice wordings, and there are a lot of nice drafts in various reports and press releases and government statements, and yet we see how difficult it is to put the necessary pressure on larger sporting events. I am certainly curious to hear SF: In addition to the debate we have today, how can we continue to discuss these things from the SF, so that we do not get caught on the wrong foot the next time we stand and send our good athletes to international sports events?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310184805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310184806	Yes, I do not have the simple answer to it, but I can say that we actually have more interests to take care of. One thing that I am very pleased to have listened to happened at the annual meeting of the Danish Sports Association, where Minister Marianne Jelved made a very clear speech to the International Federation too, because the President of the IOC was there and could not avoid hearing the very precise speech which I thought contained both well-chosen words and was also very appropriate. We now have work to do, among other things. with the sports policy objectives. It is not certain that we can do it all here, but we could be more ambitious and not just think sport policy in Denmark as something where we allocate funds to sports organisations, but where we actually hold each other to the fact that we want something about our sport, that is, that this is about democracy, about sustainability, about fair play, about everyone participating, we also want to see some clear signs of actually happening. And then I think we should be very careful not to take our athletes hostage. They must, of course, go out and show what we want them to do, namely fair play. They should not stand at the airport and be in doubt about what their mission is. And we can certainly help each other with that task too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310184937	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310184939	I would just like to say very briefly that I fully agree. I have also been very, very happy that our Minister for Culture has been so clear and precise in his statements in this area. I am also absolutely convinced that some people are listening to this debate out there, not least our sports organisations, and that what we politicians are saying is what political reports come from the rapporteurs and, above all, from the minister. So it is also just to say that I believe that the discussion we have today means something and that it is being listened to. Of course, I just hope that the debate will continue and that we can find a framework to keep a more continuous focus on this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185020	One specific example for me is that I am quite satisfied that we are now going to look at the rules for where, for example, we are going to look. can hold the Olympics. And if it is possible to organise the Olympic Games between states, between countries and, for example, between countries. also in the context of an Olympic Games could hold on to the need to be a sustainable Olympics, that is, that it is not just about how many workers you can wear out, remove from their settlements, but actually how you can create facilities that can also give the general public better sports experiences later, and that it should be sports facilities that do not burden the environment and climate, so I think we have come quite well. But it's always a balance. We must also take good care of our athletes, but they should not be sent to the city either, just because there is money that lures them. That's some of what I think, among other things. is carried out in connection with the youth team going to Qatar. It's tempting, but you might as well think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185114	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185118	Now, sir, sir... Uffe Elbæk, of course SF's ambition level, but I have to ask what it is that you could imagine you would. Well, the US government, as I said, actually asked at the 1980 Olympics athletes to stay home. That was when the United States stopped with the Taliban, and then they stopped, but then they asked them to stay home. Could a similar situation ever be seen? So, you could see a Danish government or a Danish Parliament asking Danish athletes to stay at home if it was in stadiums where there was no sustainability or climate at all, and what else Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen mentioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185211	Now I can see that Mr. Søren Espersen draws a little on the smile tape over what I mentioned with sustainability etc., but I mentioned it as an example. For me, of course, democracy and human rights are also quite crucial elements. All we have to understand is that the day the athletes are at the airport and the bags are packed is not when they have to be questioned whether they should leave. We must put a great deal of political work into the decision-making sports organisations, and there we must, of course, be watchdogs, because a great deal is managed by money, and it is managed by those giants, huge events, for which there is a tremendous amount of money; we can just see what it costs to buy rights, so that you can show these great events at all. So our ambition is to take action long before boycotting it when it comes to leaving. We know, in the long term, what events are being held when in the world, and that is where we must put our energies, and I believe that we should do so in the international committees, in the boards, in the councils where we can get to it at all. But it is a sharp distinction between when we are politically interfering and going in and, for example, when we are going in. intervenes and when we support the international and also Danish organisations and their integrity in relation to what we would like to see, namely the free person who engages in free sport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185341	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185343	It's not that I'm going to say something funny about climate or anything else, I'm just such a general laughter of nature. But I just wanted to say: no, I do not think there was a proper answer to it. Something was said where the word intervention was used and that that situation might arise. I think Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen has to answer that. Could you imagine a directive coming from the government or parliament to some Danish athletes in relation to some convention somewhere, even if it was in good time before, that is, that there would be an intervention there and it was said: you must stay at home. Could it be imagined, or was it completely unthinkable?
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185430	Well, I cannot imagine that in relation to the agreements we have and the separation that we have between the political level and the level of our sports organisations. I can't imagine. But I reserve the right, on the basis of the political conviction I have, to make it clear what I think is inappropriate. No, I don't think that a youth team because they can be offered it and then there's money for it, can go down and play handball. I think it's unwise. I don't think you should go down there and support it. I do not think young people should make it look as if everything is good in Qatar. I reserve my right to say so there. But I will not be able to stand here and impose a ban on them or anyone else leaving. I do not think that is a political decision we should take here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185515	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185526	After all, I think that this is a good and important discussion that Uffe Elbæk has initiated. I also believe that thousands of people in this country have recently shook their heads over the major international sporting events. When I say Qatar, you think of the new world championship in men's handball. Were there many spectators at the Danish matches? In fact, I think the Crown Prince felt more or less alone when he sat with the Emir in the empty hall. It was a home team with bought players from other countries who joined the finals. I thought it was completely ridiculous. Unfortunately, however, only a dictatorship that abuses more than a million migrant workers who do not have human rights and trade union rights was shown. Many migrant workers receive virtually no pay, and thousands of them die at work. After all, it is a dictatorship that has bought itself for a multitude of major sporting events such as the World Cup in handball, swimming, athletics and football and a pro tour bike race, perhaps a Formula 1 race. It is governed by an emir, which is worse than the worst when it comes to women's oppression, homophobia and human rights. Can we sit and look at it? No, I guess we can't. As stated in our proposal for adoption, we expect Danish sports organisations under the auspices of international sports organisations to reject the threat to the integrity of sport, as seen, for example. by corruption, abuse of power, overuse, doping, match fixing and violations of human rights. It is clear that a proposal for adoption does not affect reality. We need to follow up with actions that push those who violate the rules. We have seen that we have not been involved in protesting, for example. through the EU, through the Council of Europe and the ILO, concerning Qatar's violations of human rights and trade union rights. But Qatar will hardly correct, they hardly react. In this context, we, as politicians, have received a remarkable report from Idan, the Institute of Analysis of Sports. It's called the Global Sports Crisis is Denmark's great opportunity. After all, it is a report on the contradiction between the values of sport and the actual social conditions of those countries that increasingly dominate the international sports policy agenda by organising the major and most prestigious global events. Sport's opportunities to promote respect for the individual, fair play, community and intercultural understanding are being undermined. Sport's fascination and impact are misused for power-political purposes in domestic and foreign policy. This means, of course, that sport loses its credibility both for those of us who enjoy the big events and for those who enjoy taking part in broad sports. Something has to be done. I agree with Mr Idan that we need to draw up an action plan for Denmark's action in international sports policy. I have taken it up with sports leaders at the recent DIF Congress. They seem positive about the idea. As they say, we will keep up if you, as politicians, take the lead. From this point of view, I would like to ask the Government and the Minister of Sport whether they will be involved in discussing and adopting an action plan following the Idan report. The action plan will try to create a long-term agreement on Denmark's participation in international sport, to strengthen Danish efforts for democracy in international organisations, profile the strengths of Danish sports internationally and inspire other nations to increased sports participation. With these words, I hope that the Minister will be at the forefront of such an action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185910	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310185926	After all, it is very good to discuss this question on the basis of a very open question, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk has asked, namely how Denmark should deal with it, where you ask the question and not so try what the government should do, etc. That is why I would also like to go so far as to thank the Minister for the answer to the question, where the Minister, as I heard it, insisted that it is to a large extent the democracy surrounding association work, sport, etc. that is to work on the issues we are discussing here. And perhaps that is also where the waters part a little in this Chamber, namely how much political interference should be involved and how much dialogue should be set up with the leaders of sport and that that is their responsibility. In fact, I also think there are grounds for rejoicing in these years. I find that a number of organisations are well on their way to cleaning up themselves. If you just think back a little about the IOC under a former, rather famous leader, there is, in fact, reason to rejoice at what you sense has actually happened and is on the way today. The worst examples have actually given rise to a self-examination in these organizations. As far as the individual athletes are concerned, I think we can also be pleased, at least under Danish auspices. Qatar is mentioned sometimes. We saw a country that bought a handball team to get by. It is against all ethics and, as far as you can imagine, against the view we have of a national team. We can welcome the fact that the number of Danish athletes who were asked said no en bloc. This would suggest that we have athletes, including elite athletes, who have the tradition of association with them and perhaps also a pride to represent their country. And maybe they can't think the idea of representing something else. There is reason to rejoice about this. In my view, there is actually a break-up in international organisations, and then we can ask ourselves what we can do, how we can push. Play the Game has already been mentioned, including by the Minister today, and I would like to do so too. I was quite close in the early days and perhaps also had a hand in the game, and it was certainly an unappreciated size which was not appreciated, which was poorly listened to and which at that time was denied access a number of places due to its criticism, especially by the IOC. It has developed into that it is actually a recognised size, including international access, which is being invited to make visible the values we have in Danish sport, the union democracy we have and what it is based on: respect for people. They are actually invited to make it visible in a number of essential assemblies what was unheard of when it started. It was a special Danish start. It started in Denmark and built on the association tradition we have, because we were actually some people who decided that we would like to put some money into it. I would therefore like to say that we should perhaps think about this rather than think that we can make plans for action in a Parliament about what sports organisations should do. And then we should wonder if what has been created might need more support. We changed a little, and it was intended to increase support here in the last round, but we must look at the distribution of money again to the whole area. And there I would like to announce that perhaps it was worth considering that we are further strengthening, perhaps even to a not insignificant extent, the initiative of Play the Game such an element that can work with in the press organisations and that has been given a position in which one can really argue for the values we are talking about here. For it has been recognized surprisingly quickly in relation to the sluggishness that has otherwise normally been in large international organisations and the resistance that has been there. For some of the leaders who were elected in some strange, unsearchable way, democracy was not what stood first. And criticism was unheard of, they wouldn't listen to that either. It's changed, and that's the wagon we're gonna push on. I assume that most sports rapporteurs have got the writing from Play the Game, pointing to what is going on internationally and how that car can be pushed now. And that is where I actually think we can do international sport the greatest service, by letting that self-enhancing effect call for ethics and morality to be not only a personal matter but also a matter of association. In the end, then, those leaders must be accountable to their own democracies, their own organizations, their own structures and not answer to a government or a parliamentary committee that might formulate some sort of action plan that could then be run in the city. Then we have really committed violence against sport, and I would like to warn strongly against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310190510	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310190518	Was the dictatorship state of Qatar worthy to host the World Cup in handball? Were the Chinese worthy of being Olympic hosts? Were the Russians worthy to host the Olympics in Sotchi last year? Many politicians have discussed this. And there I have to say that hypocrisy knows no borders We are sending commercial delegations, we are using infinite amounts of resources to export to Qatar and to Russia, where there is a special political situation, but that was not until February last year, in other words in relation to Russia and Sotchi. The same applies to the Chinese, where we send one delegation after another every week to promote Danish goods and Danish business in China. Nevertheless, we are discussing whether we should send the handball masters to Qatar to attend the Handball World Cup, whether we should attend the Olympics in China or the Winter Olympics in Sotchi. Listen to me: this is not something we politicians should be involved in. Yes, if we chose to boycott those concerned, we could interfere. However, if we have the double moral attitude that we want to export to them and to trade and discuss with them, then it seems hypocritical and patronising that we are then discussing whether there should be a political opinion as to whether sport can take part in events in those countries. It is the same when we talk about human rights and read that day owners work under inhuman conditions. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If stadiums are built for major sporting events, is that something that should be interfered with by sport? No, but we can do that from a political point of view, and once again it is hypocrisy of the worst disappointment: we are dealing with the countries where day tenants have inhumane conditions and make great sports stadiums, etc. and may, unfortunately, die in numbers. We are dealing with the countries we have political relations with those countries and we will do everything we can to achieve even better relations with those countries. So where is the responsibility for taking a position? After all, it is with us politicians and not with sport, and it is always tempting for politicians to interfere. In ancient Greece, therefore, there was peace of mind while there were sporting events. During the antiquity Olympics there was complete peace between the different nations of Greek society, and people could move around safely. But politics has now got in the way of sport, and it is a two-edged sword, because that debate can lead to some strange simplifications and simplifications, and that is how you blow up and say and do things that you cannot put words and actions behind. In any case, it is our position on the part of the Conservatives that we should be careful not to act as such a moral substitute, because we do not dare to take the political consequences with regard to the countries we have a position on. It is always easy to have morals on behalf of others, but do nothing about it yourself. In the Conservative People's Party it is our crystal clear position and it is not just because of the toasts that I have heard here too that politics should not be involved in sport and that there should be autonomy and autonomy for sport. We should not make sport hostage to our political attitude, so we in the Danish Parliament must take a position on what we think about relations, trade and relations with the countries concerned. Sport is a community, sport is harmony, sport is a call for interaction, sport is a completely different form of international community from which we could learn a great deal. And I don't want politics involved. It is clear that in the world of sport one has an attitude, one has a moral code of human rights itself, with whom one wants a relationship and how one has that relationship. Should you take that discussion when you are with the people concerned in international forums it may be IOC, FIFA or other international specialized associations? It must be a matter for sport itself, and this is discussed continuously and constantly in the world of sport every day, both in international fora and in national fora. But it is not a matter of discussing for Danish politicians; sport itself must. Sport should not be mixed with politics, and politicians should not be in charge of the world of sport, where we must be allowed to have the autonomy and independence that means that we politicians should not interfere. So we insist stubbornly that politics and sport should not be mixed together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191021	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191025	I have to say that I was a little confused by the rapporteur's speech. On the one hand, I very much agree with the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party that there may be some form of double standards in this debate, because on the one hand we are discussing whether we can allow ourselves to send our athletes to China, while on the other hand we are sending out professional delegations to such an extent. What I just could not understand from the rapporteur was whether, in order not to be double standards, we should discuss whether it was right to trade with the countries concerned. It is outside the discussion we have in this Chamber, but now the rapporteur has brought it up himself. The question to the rapporteur, who has also been Minister for Culture and who has been in the discussion in which Denmark has had to be represented in the context of major international sporting events, is, in fact, if the rapporteur does not think that, when we are there, we, as politicians, should express our position and perhaps even support the democratic opposition that exists in that country and use the opportunity to actually witness some of the things that are going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191144	Yes, and that is why it is so important that there is a distinction between what I and other politicians have between attitudes, what our reaction pattern is, what we impose on sport and what we expect from sport. I have a position on certain countries and I have a position on human rights, and I advocate and pursue that position. I believe in trade between nations. Then there are some countries that are violating human rights and that I think we should be tougher and more consistent with, and I find it almost embarrassing to see that we are not going against them. This is a major political debate. But I do not want to impose anything on the world of sport in this respect, when I will not even follow it myself, i.e. when the Danish Parliament does not adopt it. If the Danish Parliament has adopted a trade boycott or you do not want diplomatic relations with x-land, it was natural that I expected sport to follow it up, because then there was coherence in rhetoric and argument. But as long as we have not adopted anything or done anything, we cannot expect anything from sport, then there must be autonomy and independence in which they make their own decisions in relation to whom they will cooperate and where they will participate in the various events.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191250	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191251	I actually believe that we agree, in other words, that we must respect the independence of sports organisations. But that, among other things. Also discussing here is how we as the official Denmark behaves. When we send our national teams to an international event I also mean that as politicians and as the official Denmark, we must back up our athletes how do we ensure that we are not used in a political context in which we do not want to be used? That is what we are discussing today. I am not in favour of boycotting anyone at all. In fact, I, like the rapporteur, think that we should be involved in these relations, but at the same time I believe that we must express our positions in a critical and intelligent way, and that is what we are doing, among other things. also discusses today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191344	I just think it's important to keep a beard separate and snot in that respect. If we make some political decisions in the Danish Parliament or the government has a position on a particular country or a certain way of having relations, we must pursue it on the part of the government or parliament. Sport can have the relationships they want, and then we must act as politicians. I want to be very careful about being a moral judge, about who sports work with, who they have relationships with, and what their act is. It's up to them. I know they constantly have an ethical-moral discussion about those things themselves, and I trust one hundred percent of them, especially because I don't want to be double moral with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191425	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310191436	I think it is right, very good debates, questions and answers and rapporteur speeches for that matter, too, that have been here on this issue. I would just like to clarify a few things, because there is something like something underneath what has been said, not least from my very, very good colleague Brian Mikkelsen, with whom I will end my speech. But I'm gonna start with sir. Søren Espersen. We agree on a lot of things. Sir. Søren Espersen stood here on the platform and said that in sport it is essential that everyone meets everyone. Those could be my words. He said that the integrity of sport must be preserved. That's what he said: never let the athletes be held hostage. Absolutely agree! He went on to say: "The Crown Prince must participate to support the • It is good when he does it • Our athletes, and it is also good when he does it at all times. Absolutely agree! That's why I'm leaving, because it's our government. That is why it is rather subtle, in which the differences actually exist, when we now have two proposals for decisions, for which we could all perhaps have actually voted in favour. I am not raising this debate now, it is just to say that they are, after all, very close to each other. So I would like to say that the sports organisations are taking the debate. There is a lot of discussion going on in sports organisations these years. DBU is working very hard in FIFA to try to achieve greater clarity, greater openness, greater transparency, because there are things in connection with a report that FIFA will not publish. After all, these are things that create uncertainty about what is actually going on in the international organisations, not in our own countries, we know them well enough, and there is openness and transparency in them. The IOC has raised these issues, and they have made a very large programme, which was also presented at the DIF Congress by their new president, and they have done so in order to introduce the desire for good governance. When I mention DBU and IOC in this context, it is to emphasise and demonstrate, if I may say so, or to describe that sports organisations are also aware that there are things that could be better and that may be a risk to the integrity that we all agree on sport and must continue to have. The IOC has even gone a step further in saying that it may be a problem that it is so expensive to hold the Olympic Games, so we have to try to find solutions that can spread the costs over some more countries. I think it is an excellent idea, and one could imagine that Hamburg should be the headquarters of the Olympic Games, Denmark could join, we could take sailing, handball and cycling or something else, and Sweden might also be able to join, so we shared it so that it became more affordable for the countries to carry out this task. Then I would like to emphasise that politicians have some relevant forums in which to discuss a wide range of issues, and in fact there are ministers who are responsible for sport in the European Union, who are working together to discuss what, if necessary, can be contributed to fulfilling some of the tasks that are there and which are in need. Match fixing, doping etc. After all, there are common cross-border issues on which we are working together, and it is of course important that authorities, for which the government has a responsibility, also participate. That is why we cannot just say that politicians must stay away from everything, because there are, in fact, some relevant areas where it is important that we discuss it and where we also help to set an agenda for reflection. It is also important that sports organisations, which have their organisations to assume responsibility for, help to take decisions on, among other things. host countries. That is their task, and no one disputes that it is their responsibility and their task. The athletes are doing their bit, trying to be the best in the world, and they are lifting up what they have put so much effort into with their training and cooperation. Then I'd like to respond, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, who asks about the government's position on the latest initiative of the Sports Institute and Play the Games, which has also come to the culture rapporteurs. I think that this is a point we should raise this spring when we talk about the coining out of sport's sights, which is part of our voting agreement on sport, which we can take up this type of issue and agree on how we deal with it. Then I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Mr Leif Mikkelsen, I think that was a very good point of view, as Mr Leif Mikkelsen has said. Leif Mikkelsen agreed that sports organisations have also taken some form of self-examination with them. I understand the position on what was said, and I would like to sign for what was said, the role of Play the Games, because Play the Game actually plays a very central role in the international community on these issues, and what is interesting is that it is a Danish institution, and it was originally intended, as I have been told, that Play the Game should spread to other countries, so it became a community of countries that were involved in Play the Game and the tasks that Play the Game has taken on, and which are determined when we adopted it here in the Folketing. But it's just that no more have been added. But the interesting thing is that a lot of people appreciate Play the Games' way of putting their finger on the sore points and trying to get us all to relate to what's going on or not going on or what you think is going on. So finally to Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, who brings up a theme that I have come across quite often in recent times when I discuss this with sports organisations. It seems as if sports organisations think that when Denmark, as a country with a government, can recommend a reduction in business in China or where they are now reducing themselves and they are investing in Qatar, because it is a good place to invest, that is at least the example that I have had several times, it is double moral when questions arise as to whether sport should participate when the host country is Qatar. I would like to emphasise that sport must take part in this event if Qatar has been appointed host country by the organisations. There is no doubt about that, that is not what we are contesting. What we are discussing with, among other things. sport organisations are, of course, how we can promote the opportunities for greater openness in the decisions taken by international organisations. I would like to say that the aim of companies is to earn money and also to respect it deeply, and we must support them in and promote everything we can and in all the ways we can, as a government, as a parliament and as a country. The aim of sport is not to make money, but to preserve the integrity of sport as the ideal organisation as it is. There is a very big difference between being a company and an ideal organisation, as sport is, because if sport is not able to maintain overall and globally the integrity and credibility around them, we will lose something that is very, very valuable and we will not have much to do until things can go wrong. That is why DBU has taken up FIFA, and that is why the IOC, with a new president, has embarked on good governance and has tried to ease economic pressure when it comes to setting up the Olympic Games. That is why this is not a contradiction, and that is why I do not think we should create unnecessary, thought-out contradictions, but try to listen to what the various players say and what the reasons for their opinions are. So thank you for having such broad support for us to carry out the tasks of the fora that we each have as politicians, sports organisations and athletes respectively. We can only help each other and make the best of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192314	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192317	Thank you. I can confirm the Minister for Culture's story about what was actually the idea of Play the Game, namely the belief that it might gain a foothold in different places where one could form one's own. It is a Danish initiative and it has continued to be so. That is why I am delighted that it has been given the gravity and position it has and that it has forced the respect it has. That's why I stressed which forums you're invited to now to tell about this. It started as such a very strongly critical vote on what was going on, and now, like more, it has become a bearer of Danish values that one listens to. The international organizations that at least made seven crosses for them when we started this are now inviting in. It is therefore a different situation, as this discussion has also clarified to me, and that is why I asked a little whether the time has come for us to assess whether we can give this initiative a stronger position, better support when we have occasion to do so, because I think it is actually worth it. Perhaps this could be a call for the organisations of sport to be involved in further supporting what is good for them. But so we can use a common boost in that area because it's a special Danish channel to contribute with these values, and there are actually talented people who do really well and who have the soul of association inside the body. I see this as a different option from believing that it could be political initiatives and so on. In fact, sport has its own initiative, which is strong and good.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192451	I would very much like to confirm the description of the status of Play the Games under the auspices of international sport. When I was in Switzerland last September to sign the match fixing convention, Jens Sejer Andersen had got an item on the agenda where he gave an excellent speech on the risks that were around and on how it went with corruption cover etc. Around. It was at the request of the Council of Europe that he should speak there. So it may be that Play the Game causes irritation in some places, but they also attract recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192542	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192544	Yes, that is precisely why, and perhaps that is why we should be aware that when it even resonates, it is because it is broken up here and there is more attention to the fact that there are other values than those that have been and that were imbued with corruption. It has been very bad in a number of international organisations. But there are breakups, and that is what we must support; it is the wind that blows, and perhaps Play the Game can be carriers of it. And I think that everyone should read the writing they have made about why it is that you might now have to strike with Danish values in that context. So I think we should just sharpen our attention to the fact that we have a tool that can be really useful in relation to these values that we so often talk about: democracy and ordinary conduct, and what else we could say. So I think we have a way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192637	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192639	Yes, I agree with that, which is why I would like to say that we will meet in a few minutes to discuss the aims of sport. And there it is quite relevant to take up that theme.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192652	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192707	I just want to say thank you for the debate so that we can come home and then say that some of what I am really glad about is that we are having this conversation, taking this debate in a situation where the fronts are not, what to say, pulled up, and there is conflict in it. Every time we come close to a major international event, the fronts are pulled up either by the government or by the opposition. In this situation, we had a chance to actually try to listen to each other and maybe find each other. I'm so old in the yard now that I know that the truth doesn't lie with me or with mr. Søren Espersen, whom I look down on, but it's probably somewhere between us. That is why I think the debate here is so important, so that as politicians as Parliament can be more prepared, the next time we may be in a more heated debate and have to send our good athletes out into the world to represent Denmark. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192808	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 17 March 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150310192821	The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: Report and recommendation on the consent of the Danish Parliament pursuant to Article 57 of the Constitution (on Thomas Danielsen). 94). Copies will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 11 March 2015, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
