ParlaMint-DK_20150113130001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Henrik Dam Kristensen): Bill no. L 106 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy (Temporary reintroduction of deductions from education and cash benefits for collective income, etc.)). Martin Henriksen (DF) and Pia Kjærsgaard (DF): Hasteforskning nr. F 17 (What can the government say about the Grimhøjmosque in Aarhus, and what opportunities are there to close the mosque?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150113130030	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113130035	Thank you. Sunday I attended the march in Paris with many others. It was very moving, and the message of all those who were in the march was basically: we will not let ourselves be threatened, and we will not give in; those who try to attack our values and limit our freedom will not succeed in their pursuit. It is equally clear that support for democracy and freedom of expression is both very strong and very broad. I am particularly pleased that many Muslim leaders took part in the march because it underlines that the fight is not between Islam and the West. It is a common fight for democracy against terror. We fight that battle every day. The government has committed itself to combating radicalisation, and Danish police and our intelligence services have previously prevented terrorist attacks in Denmark. We must remember that. I have great faith in our services. They do a solid and good job. But, of course, we must also ask ourselves whether there is any experience of the terrorist attack in Paris that is relevant to our intelligence services. That is why I have asked the Danish authorities to see whether there may now be a need to strengthen our national services, whether new tools or new resources are needed. When we look beyond our own borders, there is also something to do. We can ensure even closer cooperation in the exchange of information between our intelligence services in Europe and also with countries outside Europe. In the European Union, we need to look at how we can be even better at working together to track and detain terrorists travelling between our countries in and out of the European Union. It is acting, for example. on new rules for the exchange of information on air passengers. As everyone knows, we have started 2015, everyone also knows that it is an election year, but we still have a lot that we want to achieve. We have already implemented two growth plans. Now the government is going to put forward new proposals to create more growth. It happens within a few months. We are a government which has done a great deal to improve education, and now the time has come for the very young children. Here, too, we will soon come up with concrete proposals for better day care and day care. As I also said in my New Year's speech, we are also addressing integration. That's what we need. Last week the government and the municipalities agreed on an agreement that gives the municipalities a hand in a special situation where there are many refugees. Basically, I believe that the people who come to Denmark should work and not be made clients. That is why I want to change the conditions for refugees and immigrants who are on cash aid. I believe that they must work more for the benefit, preferably at a workplace, but if that is not possible, we must provide them with useful jobs. We shall soon be presenting a plan for this too. Then I am here at the entrance to 2015 of course pleased to note that it is progressing for the Danish economy. We have now had growth in five consecutive quarters, more have entered work, fewer are missing a job. The government is all in all ready with a plan for how we will take action to ensure a safe and good Denmark, also in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113130435	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders, and I shall repeat, for the sake of order, that in the first round the questioner and Prime Minister have both two minutes' speaking time. Then follow two rounds, each having 1 minute's speaking time. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as the leader of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113130455	Thank you. After all, I think it is nice to be able to start the first Question Time here in the new year by agreeing with the Prime Minister in the comments that were on top of the terrible terrorist act we saw taking place last week in Paris, first against Charlie Hebdo and later against a Jewish supermarket. I am also very, very pleased that the Prime Minister is now hearing this, as I myself and others said during the party leader's debate last week, namely that in a situation like the one we have now experienced, with an attack carried out in Paris, we have been driven by an evil and dark view of humanity, which means that it could also happen in our own country, if you can put it that way, taking the temperature on the preparedness we have. I do not really have a question to ask in this context, but I would just like to use the opportunity on behalf of the Left to give a commitment, following on from what I said last week, that we are, of course, prepared to take responsibility for finding the resources that may be needed in order to make a solid intelligence service even stronger. After all, I have no opportunity to have any close insight into it.I really would like to have it in every way, but also in concrete terms. And if I should ask a question, it should be whether the Prime Minister has had the opportunity to reflect further on the proposal put forward by Anders Samuelsen during the party leader's debate last week, namely whether, in the situation we are in, it would not be appropriate for the Prime Minister to initiate a meeting of the political parties of the Folketing, represented by the party leaders, where we could, it can be said, be updated on the current threat picture and our current preparedness as a starting point to do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113130720	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113130723	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen for trying, in this difficult situation, to back up the tools we have in relation to our services, and also in concrete terms the work our services are doing here I am thinking of Defence Intelligence and Police Intelligence and the police in general that they are doing a good and solid job. I think it is important, in a situation such as this, that there is precisely that support from the Left and the Government, and, moreover, on these issues we have had very good cooperation for many years. In relation to the specific question, I am always happy to listen to what is needed in the Folketing in relation to a debate on these issues. But I actually have a very clear feeling that what we should do now is first and foremost to get the authorities to assess whether there is a need for additional resources, whether there is a need for additional tools, and then, of course, with it in hand, come back and discuss it with the parties of the Folketing. But first of all, in the light of what has happened in Paris, it is necessary to take the experience we have and, together with the authorities, to examine whether further tools are needed. However, I would like to thank the Danish Parliament in advance for the openness that is facing us to discuss this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113130845	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113130847	I have to take that into account, and I am not going to dictate how the work is to be organized. I believe that, in the situation we are in now, it is very important that we keep the political consensus where it is and, on the other hand, also accept that there will be a space next door. If I have to explain this briefly, I would say that, as I myself take down what we have experienced, it really has two dimensions. One is about defence, that is to say the real defence, the police defence. The question has to be asked whether, in a situation where, according to what we know, 110 young people have been sent to the fighting in Syria and Northern Iraq, 50 of whom have been returned and somewhere pose a risk, that is to say only when it comes to the risk of radicalisation, have sufficient resources. It's like the defense part. I think it is very, very important that it is not politicised, and that is why I give my commitment, but in the wake of that commitment there is, in fact, a modest desire for involvement. Then there's another discussion next door about how this basically challenges our society. How can we live in a country where we have 230,000 Muslims, most of whom have chosen our society and are striving for the open values upon which our society rests, but of which there are also some who want to embrace our country? That, I believe, calls for a number of anti-radical initiatives, a number of concrete proposals. Some have been put forward and not supported by the government, among others. the proposal for prior authorisation for exit, and there may be no political agreement. However, on the question of the first dimension, which is not suitable for a major public debate either, in other words, whether our security services are equipped with the instruments and resources they need, we must do everything we can. At any rate, I would like to make a commitment there to maintain political consensus, but that also requires involvement, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131106	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131108	I fully agree that this requires involvement, and neither have any of the measures we have taken in this area where we have not involved the parties. We shall continue to do so too, because that is quite right, as Mr von der Vring has said. Lars Løkke Rasmussen says that if you have to continue to take responsibility for this and that does the Left; I would like to sign for that too, of course. And that is certainly what the government intends to do, both in the specific situation of threat images and so on, but also in the future. If we need new tools and new resources, we will first of all identify what might be needed, and then we will naturally have a thorough discussion with the Danish Parliament's parties on both resources and tools. There is no time for me to reject anything. I think we should have an open mind, both in relation to cooperation with other countries, our cooperation with the EU countries, but also with regard to the tools and resources we need to use in Denmark. I agree that we must combat radicalisation, and we must do this in the way that, on the one hand, we are trying to reach out to those who are getting on the wrong track, but, on the other hand, we are also hitting those who are too far out. That is why the government has proposed that we remove the passport from those who we know are on their way and that, at the same time, if there are non-citizens leaving, they should not be sure that they can return, because it is possible that we withdraw the residence permit from them. So there are tools that we would like to use, which we do not have access to today, but which I think will be quite useful in preventing the Syrian warriors from leaving.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131250	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131252	I would like to sign for the inclusion commitment, and perhaps a sentence should then be put there. I also agree with the government that it is sensible to be able to take the passport from people. I just have to say that, after everything we know, 110 people have left, 50 have returned, and not a single passport has been taken from anyone. This is something we have to deal with. That is why I would like the Prime Minister to say that, in terms of content, we, and in this context we are the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, have suggested that, in this situation, we should say, based on assessments by the Police Intelligence Service and the Defence Intelligence Service in relation to hotspots around the world, that the prerequisite for leaving those areas at all is that you have a prior authorisation, which must of course be simple and unbureaucratic, if you have a legitimate errand, because you travel with emergency aid or are a journalist or anything else. But if you can't prove that there's a purpose to the journey, and you're leaving anyway, you have to be able to be punished. We are therefore in a situation where we know that people have gone out, and we know that people have come home, and we know that they are at the top of the list and are at risk of being radicalised, and we cannot lift the burden of proof that they have taken part in criminal acts. We're in an extraordinary situation. That is why we are proposing something extraordinary. And I ask the Prime Minister here whether what we have witnessed could perhaps enable the government to also take this extraordinary step with the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131432	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131433	I would say to the first thing that when we have not taken the passports from people, it is because we do not have the legislation in place yet. We hope to have that soon. We also hope that the Left will contribute to this. Then there is the specific question of whether one could imagine a situation in which people who are on their way to Syria refuse to leave. I think that, in the situation we are in now, it is not time to close doors but, on the contrary, to keep them open, and that is why we will also be looking at whether this is a proposal that will be possible. We are, in fact, very open to many proposals, and if this proposal can be implemented without restricting the freedom of many people, so to speak, to go where they want to go, it is also part of what is being done in Denmark that we want to look at it. But the government will be open to any proposals that may come, also as a follow-up to what has happened in Paris.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131528	Then we'll go to the second strip with mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131532	Thank you. Then I think I will change the subject too, so as not to challenge the willingness of the Prime Minister on the first point, more than what is good, in other words to avoid closing doors. It is very positive that the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, is expressing an openness to discuss this specific proposal, which has so far at least been rejected. After all, the Prime Minister also stayed by that 2015 is an election year, and if anyone, it is the Prime Minister who knows with himself when the election will take place. We are, of course, clear, but we are also ready to fulfil our parliamentary responsibilities until it may please the Prime Minister to issue an election. There I have to say that, in relation to what the Prime Minister said here, I am a little concerned that the Prime Minister is saying that some growth initiatives will be taken within a few months. It is undoubtedly an expression of a different reading of where Denmark is than the one I have at least myself. The government has now downgraded the growth estimates by eight laps, and we should avoid this happening a ninth time. We are entering 2015 in economic lug gear, and there are several places in the country where there has been discussion about employment decline. It may be that unemployment has fallen, but there has been a decline in employment because of depopulation; there are places in Denmark where optimism is certainly hard to see. When you talk about a Denmark you know, there may in fact be more than one Denmark. At least there are regions in Denmark that are in reverse and characterised by discouragement. I think it's screaming that we're acting. And just to be specific, I would like to mention agriculture. We have an agriculture that is currently in a state of crisis and is losing earnings. This is among other things. because of the situation in Ukraine, which is not self-inflicted, and insidious levels of debt. Around the country we have banks and savings banks, and that sector is a hugely exposed sector. I think it calls for action, and I would just like to ask the Prime Minister, at the outset, whether the Prime Minister agrees that we are dealing here with a busy profession, which we all agreed last year had a significant growth potential. I also acknowledge the initiatives taken by the government and those that we have taken together but which, in the present situation, are very much in need of a negative spill-over effect, including for the financial sector. Does the Prime Minister share the view that Danish agriculture is under pressure and, if so, what are the considerations of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131825	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113131826	I'll take the general first. I think it is really important for the sake of Danish economy and the Danes in general that the bourgeois opposition stops talking Danish economy down. I have seen up to several steps in this direction, i.e. that things are made like they're really bad all together. But it is really important to stop talking down Danish economy. There's growth in the economy. There has now been growth in the economy in the last many quarters. Several have entered work, since spring 2013, employment has increased by over 20,000, and unemployment is on the way down. At the same time, we have come out of the recommendation from the European Union that the previous government brought us into, that the budget law is being observed, and that is better in Denmark. It is not fast enough, and it is clear that Denmark is affected by what is happening in other countries, so we would like more growth than what we have. That is also why the government, on top of the two growth packages we have made, is planning further measures in relation to growth. But to present it as if things are not going better in Denmark is quite simply wrong, and I would actually urge the Left to stop doing so. It is not fair to Denmark and the Danish economy. It is true that agriculture is, of course, severely affected by the sanctions that have been imposed and the situation in Ukraine. We are all deeply sorry that it has come to that. The government has done a great deal for Danish agriculture, and I can read that it is recognised by Danish agriculture. We have adopted a growth package specifically for agriculture. We have also tried to help with concrete means to find new markets to replace those that have become smaller, and in this way we have a lot of focus on agriculture. However, everyone can see that it is of course adversely affecting agriculture that point 1 is the economic situation in the world, but that point 2 is also the specific situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132032	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132034	And then there was the very question of what we do about it. Well, I'm not allowed to say first that I'm not talking anything down. I'm talking about things the way they are. Moreover, I have the basic point of view, and I think I also made that to the Prime Minister before the Prime Minister became Prime Minister, that you have to take Denmark from here, where Denmark is the Denmark we know today and what we have to do about it. And therefore it is not a competition in who has done what in the past. I fully acknowledge that things are going better now than they have done. We have a joint responsibility for this. The left has been there every time, both when we made decisions when we were in government and when the Social Democratic Party stayed out, when the very foundation stone of the Danish economy is robust, was laid the pre-retirement reform; there we were there and we have been there in all subsequent agreements that have drawn the right path. We've been pushing for them ourselves. So it's not a competition in who did what. Nor is it a question of producing a false picture of the situation in Denmark. It is a question of dealing with reality. I understand that we agree that we have an agriculture that is now in the grip of the Ukraine crisis. And the government has done some things historically in the area of food, and we have been there ourselves. In spite of this, however, we have an agriculture that is in need. And then I just have to ask quite simply: what are we going to do about it? Are we looking at, or are there grounds for further initiatives to be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132203	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132204	Just so that we do not get lost in what is the general foundation, I would say that the general foundation is, of course, the welfare agreement that was made as far back as 2006 and as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen also well knows that the Social Democrats were very active in getting on their feet and also participated in. So that is the foundation of much of the economic development that we now have. Then, of course, the government has also implemented a number of reforms which have been sensible for Denmark. But when I say this to say that I think you should be careful not to talk Denmark into a black hole, it is because I experience that some people and it may well be that it is not Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen himself, but some of his handy men have been very concerned about talking negatively about Danish economy. And that is simply not a real picture of where the Danish economy stands now. We would like to see more growth, yes, we would like to, but we are doing better in the Danish economy, not least because we have had a government that has made significant decisions in this direction. And I am glad that we have had the Left to contribute in certain cases; I am very pleased about that, and I would like to acknowledge that. But that does not change the fact that the government has been responsible for the things we have done. Specifically, in relation to agriculture, I think it is rather strange to talk about the fact that this is an historic agreement we have made or that what we have done in relation to agriculture is history. After all, it is a concrete growth plan for agriculture and food forward-looking, for which the industry has also endorsed, in other words, that a better framework has been provided for us to have and operate sensible agriculture in Denmark. It has, of course, not been able to work in such a concrete way yet, so we still have a lot of common expectations and hopefully a lot of them. And specifically with regard to agriculture and agricultural markets, we are now trying to help find alternative markets for those who have disappeared due to the crisis in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132356	Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132400	Well, I don't even recognize that picture that I'm talking the economy down. On the other hand, I can see very clearly that the Prime Minister speaks up the government, and someone has to do it too. In other words, when you ask in the Ministry of Finance, you are told that nine tenths of the effects of the reform are due to the reforms adopted before the Prime Minister became Prime Minister; these were reforms against which the Prime Minister was opposed. And that's how we can stand and shoot at each other, but it's sitting, for example. some farmers out there who are hard-pressed by their earnings; who are so badly driven by their economy that they may not be able to afford to invest in making the land spring-ready; who are burdened with debt; who have borrowed the money in some financial institutions around Denmark, where the banks are more exposed to this area than the sector in general is at risk of collapse, there is a negative spill-over effect not only for farmers' families but for accompanying industries, for regions in Denmark where it is already not going well and where employment is in decline. Faced with that, the Prime Minister says that what had to be done has been done. I am very sorry about that. I would like to call for months not to be waited, but at most days before any growth policy negotiations are launched. The left will be happy to show up for them. As far as agriculture is concerned, there is a need for • and it costs no money to provide more competitive framework conditions for harmony requirements, for fertilization rules and other things. The left is quite clear, and my appeal here is simply to use the fact that elections are not to be held for political purposes. Because if we're just gonna use spring here to sit and wait, we're gonna fail, we're gonna waste each other's time, and then we're gonna lose a challenge. No matter how well things are going, things can always go better, and it is at least obvious that in relation to the sector I have mentioned here and several could be mentioned, there is a need for things to be better, and that calls for political action. We're ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132614	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132616	No one in the government is waiting. We have a close-packed program. Sometimes we can feel that we sit and wait a little for the Left to do so, among other things. in relation to the asylum restrictions that we would like to go through with. So no one's waiting for that, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen sort of didn't worry about. I think it is a pity that no emphasis is placed on some of the things we are already doing in relation to agriculture. We have just found a good balance where we offer better opportunities for Danish agriculture without compromising on what the Danes are also concerned about: that we have good healthy food and that we do not destroy our environment. That is precisely the balance that the government stands for, and which we have also discussed a great deal with Agriculture & Food over the past few years, and that is where our growth package lies. So I am a little surprised that the Left, after being actually included in this growth package, will suddenly relax the requirements and framework for Danish agriculture. Because I assume that the Left still wants us to have an agriculture in Denmark that can make money and do well in the international market, but which also helps to protect the Danish environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132724	Thank you, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as the leader of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113132730	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the opening of Question Time. This is the first time that the Danish Parliament has gathered after the tragedy in France last week, and that is why we think it is quite natural that we dwell on it and that we also remember that not only were people killed in France last week; there are relatives who are now missing someone; there is a society in shock. I also think it is important to remind you that what has happened is not an attack on France alone and on French values. It is an attack on Western democracies and our values in general and thus also an attack on Denmark and the things we stand for in Denmark. That is why I also think it is appropriate to look at whether there should be more resources, new tools for the people we have in Denmark to work against extremist people, extremist environments and that is, whether it is police in general, PET or FE, as the Prime Minister also says, both when it comes to new tools and new resources. I also think it is good that the Prime Minister says that the government will look at the new tools with an open mind. I hope this means that some of the things that the government has previously refused to use to combat extremism in Denmark are inclusive, that is to say, that you look at things with an open mind. What could then be useful in relation to the Question Time here is to find out whether we are looking reasonably in common at the great challenge that we face in the Western world and in Denmark. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether she and the government are looking at freedom of expression in Denmark in the same way as, for example, Jyllands-Posten's CEO, who, on the basis of what happened in France, just said that freedom of expression is threatened as never before. That pressure is felt by everyone, especially the people at Jyllands-Posten. Well, freedom of speech is threatened as never before. It is, of course, in connection with the fact that the newspaper chooses to say that you do not do what you might otherwise have done because you simply think of your magazine house and your employees and want to protect them. It is easy to understand that there is nothing strange about this, but it also means that the formal freedom of expression that we have may in fact not be there, because in reality there are people who refrain from doing what they would otherwise have done simply out of fear. So does the Prime Minister agree that this is the situation in today's Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133006	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133009	There is no doubt that the terrorist attack in France is an awful and very blunt expression of the fact that freedom of expression and, therefore, democracy are under attack. There are some who would like our freedom of expression and our democracy, our freedom to live, and they are attacking the places where they think it can happen. There are radicalised people and groups out to attack our freedom of expression. That is why I also think it is so important to have a demonstration like the one that took place on Sunday, where more than 1 million people have not fully figured out how many people there were marked that freedom of expression cannot be taken away from us. We are an open, free society that wants freedom of expression, which wants freedom of the press, and we see it not as an individual good for which the individual must fight, but rather as a collective good for which we must fight together. In this way, I think there is a very clear line in the answer we have given not only by the West but by all parts of the world, namely that we know that there are some who are going to attack our freedom of expression. We do not accept it and we fight for our freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133124	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133126	Thank you also for the answer, of course. What is probably the matter here is that it is not a discussion about whether there is formal freedom of expression, because of course we also have in Denmark; what matters here is whether freedom of expression is real, i.e. whether the media world is a writer or whether you are a drawer... imposes a censorship on yourself, which means that things you would have done if you were not living in fear, you do not do precisely because of fear. What Jyllands-Posten's editor-in-chief is very frankly, I think, and actually very frankly goes out and says, is that the magazine makes arrangements that they wouldn't have done, so act differently because of this fear. In other words, as a society, we are not in a position to provide them with the sense of protection that makes them actually use the freedom of expression they formally have, and so I suppose freedom of expression is not real. What I really wanted the Prime Minister's answer to in order to find out whether we see the same threat we face is whether the Prime Minister agrees with the view that is being put forward here: that freedom of expression today is limited, unfortunately, by the fears that many people are living with and by the self-censorship that is being exercised.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133247	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133249	Jyllands-Posten is in a very special situation, and I have seen well over the past week that for example. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Dansk Folkeparti had many good advice on what Jyllands-Posten should print or not print. But you have to respect the fact that Jyllands-Posten is in a special situation and that they speak out as they do. In many ways, I find it a little strange that one wants to pursue so much politics on what exactly Jyllands-Posten does or does not, and has such firm views on what Jyllands-Posten should print or not print. In relation to this self-censorship, I do not think there can be two views that there is, of course, a huge risk of starting to impose censorship on oneself, in relation to what one can do and not do, and perhaps it is the greatest danger in this situation. I must then also note that when I see the Danish newspapers, the Danish media... it is not the case that I have seen the rest of the world's newspapers, but looked at some of what is going on in the rest of the world... we use our freedom of expression in the way we would like. So, yes, there's a risk of self-censorship. Yes, there are some who would like our freedom of expression to be destroyed. However, the response we have seen from Europe over the last week is that we are using our freedom of expression, and those who are extremists and want to decide this should not decide that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133410	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133411	In fact, I find it somewhat regrettable that, in this serious debate, the Prime Minister is distorting it and responding to something other than what I asked. I have not made any recommendation here about how Jyllands-Posten should act. I come here with a question to the Prime Minister on the basis of what Jyllands-Posten tells the public is the reason for the way they act. I really think that the Prime Minister should respond to what the Prime Minister is asked about rather than try to distort it. The Prime Minister says that there is a risk of self-censorship, but what I am asking is whether the Prime Minister will recognise that self-censorship is taking place and that is something other than that there is a risk of self-censorship. For then we have come out there where we do not have a genuine freedom of expression, at least some of it. We do have it formally, but not really, and then we find ourselves in a worse situation, you might say, than if, in quotation marks, there was just a risk it was hard enough. But if we have already come to the point that we recognise that there are media houses that make self-censorship because of fear, and not because they think that it would be wrong for them to write one thing or another, then they have to assess completely themselves simply because of fear, then we have not given them the security that is sufficient for them to be able to exercise their freedom of expression. That is what I am asking the Prime Minister about: Does the Prime Minister agree that this is where Danish society is today, January 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133548	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133550	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl accuses me of distorting things, but it's actually Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who does it. Because I'm saying that Jyllands-Posten is in a very special situation. They are in a very special security situation; they themselves have recognized that. What I think has been unpleasant over the last week is that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party and I can hear that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl doesn't want to repeat it today • has tried to tell all Danish media what exactly you think they should print. That's the big misunderstanding about this. Freedom of expression is not about politicians telling a magazine, a media, what to print; it is about each media sitting on an editorial board that discusses with itself what they want to print. It is my impression that Danish media, except perhaps Jyllands-Posten, which is in a special situation, have printed exactly what they wanted during this week and have expressed themselves in the way they wanted to. Why the Danish People's Party should then discord in this situation and demand some of the media I find somewhat unclear after the past week.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133654	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr as head of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133700	I fully agree with the Prime Minister that we must take the threat of terrorism seriously. What we have witnessed in France is terrible. Freedom of expression cannot be gradulated and is an absolutely central part of our free and democratic society. There are groups, for example. Islamic State, al-Qaeda and people inspired by those who commit violence, terror and other cruel acts motivated by a perverted form of Islam. We must fight this clearly and unequivocally both in the world, but also at home. After such a terrible attack on our social model and fundamental values, it is important that we stand together across political divides, and perhaps we should really rise above the political differences and do what works, what prevents new terrorist attacks, and which prevents young people from being tempted to seek out these extremist environments, including in Denmark. It is therefore important that we do not divide people into religion, but into those who support democracy and democratic values and free societies, and into those who undermine democracy and are anti-democratic in their thinking. That's where the line's gonna be. We must therefore take harder action against extremist environments, which we also have in Denmark. And we have to go over the matter and I am glad that the Prime Minister also stressed in his introduction whether PET has the necessary resources and the police efforts to be made and, on that basis, whether we can do things better. I would therefore like to thank the Prime Minister for taking part in the demonstration in Paris. It created new hope to see so many people on the street together, over 3.5 million people, I think it was. It creates new hope that we can solve this together in Europe, but perhaps also in Denmark, and that is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister what she will do to gather as broad a support in the Folketing as possible for a joint effort beyond the proposal for the Syrian Warriors, so that we can both ensure our security and prevent people from being radicalised by darkened religious forces and encouraged to carry out terrorist acts or to go into holy war.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133915	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113133917	First of all, thank you for those nice words. I also very much agree that we must do everything we can to combat extremism. The government is already well under way. We are watching the young people who we believe are entering extremist environments. We would like to say to them, on the one hand, that there is a way back for them if they want to get out of the extremist environments. If they want to hide from these environments, we would like to cooperate with them, with their parents and with the places where they go. So we'd like to get the kids out of it. On the other hand, however, the message is that if they are going or are considering going, we would like to take their passports so that they cannot go, and if they are not Danish citizens, they do not have to come back, because then we will take their residence permit. It's a simple message to young people: don't go, don't get started with the extremist environments; we'd like to help you out of it if that's what you want, but as soon as you have a plan to go, society is responding too. I cannot help but point out in all silence that when it comes to fighting terrorists and extremists, you must have both soft and hard tools. And I hope that what the SF and the SF President say in these days means that if we come back with the expansion of the tools available to our services, both in terms of powers and resources, then, unlike other times, we will take a positive view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134055	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134057	I think I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that SF is part of the police settlement and has been so for quite many years and has therefore also supported when police intelligence has been given more resources on several occasions. So I think it was an entirely unnecessary remark made by the Prime Minister, because what I just wanted and set out to do in my introduction was to say whether we should not try to make a broad and concerted effort in this Parliament as far as possible. I think it is important that we stand together in such a difficult situation as we are currently in, and that is where I think the Prime Minister could actually appear a little more statesmanlike. Therefore, I would also like to ask whether the Prime Minister or the Minister for Justice is considering inviting the parties of the Danish Parliament, which the leader of the Liberal Alliance has previously proposed, to a thorough discussion of how we do this through a pan-European effort, but also by our Danish efforts against terrorism and radicalisation, so that we maintain a broad political support against extremism in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134159	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134201	I do not think there is anything wrong in reminding each other that over the years we have had different views in terms of how we strengthen the work of the services. I think that's important in this situation. Many of us have had a discussion, including in recent years, about the work of services, about the exchange of information with partner countries, about the efforts we can make when we work with other services. There have been many attacks and suspicions of the services, and I think it is precisely in this situation that it is worth emphasising that everything we have done in this area, all the powers that have been given to the services over recent years, has been justified and it has also helped prevent concrete terrorist attacks. I just think that is important to get into place, which is why, of course, I hope that it will also be something that will be taken into account by all parties in further work in order to strengthen our services. It is also important in this situation to emphasise this. In relation to the specific point, I think it is natural, following a terrorist attack like that in Paris, that I have now asked our authorities to consider whether further tools are needed, whether additional resources are needed, and once we have answered that, we will of course return to the parties of the Folketing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134314	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134316	It can be said that, following on from what has happened, there are unfortunately also environments where we are experiencing attacks. It is both Muslim, but also Jewish environments that are afraid of assault, some mosques have already been attacked in Paris, and the concern has also spread to Denmark. It is quite awful if it is allowed to develop into further conflicts. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what we can do to prevent further hatred and attacks so that all people can live safely in Danish society. Then I think we should put aside the political controversy, because I think it is important that we have broad political support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134355	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134356	I have always thought it was very important to have broad support for our services, and I have missed that in recent years, when this has been discussed here, a thorough support for both the services and the powers they have. But it is fine that we put the political subtleties behind this, which I think is promising for the future. In relation to specific environments in Denmark, I can assure you that we are also following the situation closely. The Minister of Justice is meeting with, for example, this week. the Jewish communities to be sure that there is the necessary control and security around the Jewish communities, and in this way we are constantly vigilant in relation to the specific situation on earth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134444	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as leader of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134452	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for having represented the Danes with other ministers at the great demonstration in Paris the other day. I think we all thought it was great to see how millions of people with different social and ethnic and religious backgrounds stood together for freedom of expression and for freedom at all. That is surely the strongest signal we can send to the extremists who were behind this terrible terrorist attack, the massacre, in Paris, namely that their hatred and their threats do not divide us, as they want, but instead bring us together across differences, and that the fight is not between the West and Islam, as the Prime Minister also began by saying, but that the dividing line is between those who want democracy and those who do not want it. In fact, the same thing happened to us in connection with the terrible massacre at Utoya in Norway, namely that the Norwegians were even more united than before. This was not least due to the Social Democratic Prime Minister Stoltenberg and the signals he sent, namely that hatred and fear must meet with more openness and more democracy, that the strongest of all weapons is the free word and democracy. I think it was some very strong words that came from Stoltenberg, and I would like to hear the Prime Minister's thoughts on how we in Denmark can react in a way that strengthens transparency and strengthens democracy in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134634	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134637	The defence of our freedom of expression and our democracy and our freedom can be said to require two hands: with one hand one must ensure an open society where one uses one's freedom of expression, where one discusses everything where one has freedom, where one accepts diversity, and where one in peace may not always resolve the challenges that exist. That's where I think we should all take the lead with a good example. We can easily be different, we can discuss things, but we do it peacefully and properly and have respect for each other's freedom to express what we want. It is also important that we stick together on freedom of expression and say that it is not only an individual right but also a collective good that we must all defend. And I am full of admiration for the Danish Parliament, the Danish party leaders, who over the last week all It is a strong signal from Denmark that we can send the message that there is no disagreement on that issue in Denmark. That's the way it is. That is the way everyone has spoken and it is strong. The other side of protecting our democracy and freedom is that one is effective in protecting oneself. This means that you have the Defence Intelligence Service and the Police Intelligence Service, which has the right tools and can work effectively to protect ourselves. Over the years, even when there have been terrorist attacks, we have strengthened our powers, and this has been very important in order to protect Denmark, protect Danish interests and thus our democracy and freedom. So the protection of democracy and freedom is both about tough tools and powers for our services, and about defending the freedom of the press and freedom of expression constantly and every day, as we have seen over the last week.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134833	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113134835	The defending of freedom of the press and freedom of expression is a pleasure to the Prime Minister, because when I think it is important to stress Stoltenberg's very wise words, it is because I think there is reason to be a little concerned about some of the statements that have come home after the terrorist attack. These are statements which I think point away from the open society and away from the rule of law which protects our freedoms. We have heard politicians talk about introducing emergency law. The last time we saw it in Denmark was when Denmark was occupied by the Germans. We have heard debaters talk about the fact that freedoms should not apply to everyone. It is possible that these things have been said in awe and anger at what we have experienced, but I think it is insanely important that we, as politicians, should now keep our heads cold and not act in perfection, and certainly not if it is a matter of interfering with freedoms. We must, of course, analyse the situation we are in and consider whether there is something we can do differently and better than in the past, but it is crucial that we do not act in panic and I would like to hear what the Prime Minister has thought about some of the statements that have been made, for example. That you have to resort to emergency. That's one thing. The second thing is that we have experienced the Jewish community being out saying that they are actually worried about their safety. It's very serious. We have also seen mosques being attacked in, among others. Sweden. I understand that the Minister for Justice has taken the initiative for a meeting with the Jewish community as early as tomorrow. I'd like to sign for that. But what is the Prime Minister's idea that there are politicians who, in response to the terrible thing that has happened, are beginning to talk about restricting our freedom, for example. By resorting to emergency?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135023	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135024	I do not think that we are in a situation in Denmark where we should resort to emergency law. I believe that we have a strong democracy. We have a lot of good tools to protect our democracy. And it is twofold: on the one hand, we have to fight every day for our freedom of expression, our freedom in general, our right to disagree and to differ and our right to debate everything that we love and that we have all said over the last week that we care about, and on the other hand, we also have to protect ourselves in concrete terms. That is also why I have taken the initiative to find out now whether we can learn anything from the tragic events in Paris. I have asked the Danish authorities to look into whether there may be a need to strengthen our national services. It can be a strengthening of resources, but also in the form of powers. My hope is that the consensus that has been reached on strengthening freedom of expression, democracy and the defence of diversity will also have a spill-over effect when it comes to strengthening our services, both with resources and powers, because what we see in this situation is, of course, that the powers that we have given our services over recent years, among other things. PET has been useful and real tools. Some have been against them over the years, but they have been useful and real tools that have also prevented terrorism in Denmark in a very concrete way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135155	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen for the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135156	I believe that everyone agrees that it is important to have an intelligence service which can follow what is happening and which, I hope, can help prevent terrible attacks like what we have seen in Paris. I also hope that the Prime Minister agrees that it is very important to strike a balance; that we do not end up restricting the freedoms which are precisely those for which we are fighting. But what I want to do with my last question is actually something quite different. This isn't about Paris. It is about the Radicals having held a New Year's New Year's assembly in Nyborg this weekend, where the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior was out to say that there is a need for more reforms along the lines of the pre-retirement reform and the unemployment benefit and withdrawal reform. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior says: Now the Danes are going to work more. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior also uses some wording about a so-called 'parent society', which I actually think is a little rude, and for people who are dependent on society, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, for example, reckons. folk pensioners, who have contributed so much for decades. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister agrees with the Radicals and agrees with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior that there is a need for more reforms along the lines of the unemployment benefit reform, the cash benefits reform and the pre-retirement reform, and if so, what are these reforms? I know that the insecurity among the Danes is increasing. I think it would be very good if the Prime Minister could make a clear announcement before the elections as to whether the Socialists, like the Radicals and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, believe that there is a need for more reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135332	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135334	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen talks about broad support for our services. That's where it started, that's with PET and FE. I would say that I have not felt the broad support in recent years when there has been much debate on our services. I haven't felt that support. There has been criticism of partnerships with other countries; there has been a constant suspicion of our services, the very same services that prevent concrete terrorist attacks in Denmark. It's just that we have it in the future discussion of these issues. I hope that the broad support expressed here will also hold when we come to a situation where we have to start discussing increased powers and resources. It'll be really, really good. In relation to the concrete statements made by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior is absolutely right that we should go to a situation where fewer people are dependent on our society and where more are in the labour market. And I really hope that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen fully agrees that the more people who can be in our labour market, the more people who can take an active part in the working community, the better it is for our society. So when the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has an ambition that we should have more people on the labour market than are provided, that we should be up against having 3 million people on the labour market who are supported, then I think it is a very good ambition and a good idea. I am quite sure that we have not seen the last reform in Danish society. I also know that the Enhedslisten will probably be against whatever reform is coming. But surely we have not seen the last reform of Danish society. The way that Danish society has survived is, of course, that we have managed to change, so that we can preserve the Denmark we know while changing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135518	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen as leader of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135524	Thank you. I would also like to start by stressing that following the demonstration in Paris was an amazing experience. I take this as an expression of what I also tried to point out in the party leader's round on Denmark's Radio, namely that democracy and freedom of expression cannot be overcome. The values that we have in Europe and in the Western world cannot be won over in the long run. This does not mean that we cannot be under pressure along the way, and we have also been so at earlier times both during the Second World War, but also through the 1970s in particular. There have been attacks and violations of the equality on which we build our society. So it is important to send a signal, I think, throughout the country, and not least to our young people, who I know are discussing this cross-cutting and who can rightly be concerned about what is going on. It is important to send out a signal of hope and will that we will win this fight as well. We do, among other things. By standing together. That is also the signal that I have heard most clearly today and in the days following that terrible terrorist attack. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Lars Løkke Rasmussen and also Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr raised the question that I also tried to raise during the party leader's round, namely whether we cannot quickly get a call from the Prime Minister for a joint discussion of the parties across. I understand, and I would like to confirm this, that at least a promise has been made that when the information that the Prime Minister is currently obtaining is on the Prime Minister's table, we will be called up at that time. I would like confirmation of that. And then, after all, I would like to clarify again why we cannot take that meeting right away. Because, in the debate we have now had in this Chamber, it is clear that there are various things that concern us. There are some common denominators, but there are also different things and different angles that we have for it. After all, it must also be a gift to the Prime Minister that we all reach out and say: can we not come to a meeting? But we also know that it is the Prime Minister who has to take the initiative for the meeting. So why not take that initiative today instead of waiting?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135751	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135753	I do like results better than shows, and that is why I think it is much more useful that we should ask ourselves, on top of the events that have taken place in Paris, whether there is anything we can learn from those events. This requires that we have a complete overview of the events in Paris, and that we then take a look, and it is the Danish authorities that will have to do so. They will get an answer as to whether there are things we in Denmark need to see if there is a need to strengthen. There may be a need to strengthen our services, the police, the defense intelligence service, and new powers may be needed. I think it is most important to ask that question and clarify it. On top of that, of course, it is natural to have a conversation with the parties of the Folketing, and I think that when we listen to the debate today, and also the debate that has taken place during the week, one hears so clearly that there is support for our freedom of expression, our democracy, our freedoms and the way we want Denmark to be. There is a basic bottom line of agreement on where we want to go. That is why I would very much like to speak to the parties of the Danish Parliament. I just think that you have to do things in the right order, that is to say that you first get the authorities' assessment of whether there is a need for new initiatives, and then we naturally have a conversation with each other in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135913	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113135916	After all, it's the Prime Minister who organizes this process. However, I think that one thing is to choose to insist on the order in which the Prime Minister does. Something else could be looking at who it is, after all, the political leaders of this country. After all, we are the political leaders. Whether you sit in opposition or you sit in government or you are Prime Minister, you are part of or leader of a political party that defines and ultimately also decides through the Folketing what is the framework for our democracy. That is why we urgently need a joint, open political debate. There are issues that have been raised by others in this Chamber today, but there are many other things at stake. We can discuss and agree that we must safeguard freedom of expression, but there is also a discussion on how we can extend freedom of expression. The question of the blasphemy clause is an example of that. There is also a question of how we can protect each other, and here there is not necessarily a need for us to wait for the Prime Minister to obtain information. What can we do about entry bans? This is a debate that is topical and the same applies to tougher penalties for people who are criminals against democracy. Or more specifically, why is it that religious ministers, for example, are doing so? Is it easier to obtain a residence permit in Denmark than everyone else does? So there is a wide range of topics. How do we safeguard ourselves, and how do we extend freedom of expression? After all, these are political discussions that we could just as well take here and now, not least at a time when we are actually standing together and in a spirit of unity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140100	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140102	I find it very difficult to see why one meeting should be able to solve all these challenges. I'm happy to speak to the parties of the Folketing. I do the same on these issues, but we have these debates on a regular basis. Just this week, is it today or tomorrow? I believe that what we need to do now is to take serious and concrete action. That is why I have asked the authorities to assess whether further tools are needed. When we have that assessment, I will, of course, talk to the parties of the Folketing about it. This is and will be the right approach if we want to be results-oriented and not just interested in a meeting where it has to be about all sorts of things. We want concrete results and, of course, we want to discuss this with the Danish Parliament's parties on an enlightened and proper basis. So that's the way I organize the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140159	Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140204	It is certainly not a question, but simply a finding and acceptance that it is, of course, the Prime Minister who organises it here and must do so in that order. Finally, I think it is only a pity that, now that there is such a wide range of parties, there is a hand that is being raised, we are not just accepting it. I mean, what's wrong with you doing that? Is it just an indication that the procedure is wrong if the proposal comes from the wrong place and it does not come from the Prime Minister? What do I know? It's okay, we'll see each other after the information has been collected, because then we'll be called, and I'll look forward to it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140240	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140244	Well, I'm glad there isn't one answer to these things, and that sir... Anders Samuelsen has acknowledged that there is not just one answer. I believe that what is important now is serious and concrete proposals on what can be done, and that is the process I am proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140300	We have cancelled from the political rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party for Question Time, so that concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140319	Member of the Folketing Jonas Dahl applied for leave from 13 January 2015 onwards, while member of the Folketing Morten Marinus applied for leave from 20 January 2015 onwards, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140352	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the Second Deputy of the Socialist People's Party in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Sanne Rubinke, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 13 January 2015 on the occasion of Jonas Dahl's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that he does not wish to take up such leave. I have also received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Danish People's Party in Nordjyllands Storkreds, Ib Poulsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 20 January 2015 on the occasion of Morten Marinus' leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that she does not wish to join this leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140446	The committee's recommendation is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 108 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140515	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140544	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140610	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday, 15 January 2015. Mr President, first of all I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Per Clausen as rapporteur for the authors of the question to justify the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113140641	After all, there is little doubt that the issue of climate change is constantly pressing on. Nor is there any doubt that if we look at it globally, internationally, we are very, very far from the objective of reducing temperature changes to two degrees. On the other hand, there is little doubt that if we look at Denmark in isolation, a number of successful results can be mentioned. One of the most significant is perhaps the very large share of the Danish electricity supply, which is already supplied in the form of renewable energy, primarily wind energy. It is, of course, a real success story that in many areas is actually completely contrary to the assertions that are often made in the debate, namely that wind energy can never ever become a safe supplier of electricity to our supplies. And it is also a result that, if you look at it around the world, will certainly lead to you getting a lot of respect for it. So that's a really good result. We are also in the situation in Denmark that we have succeeded in maintaining the objectives of the energy conciliation, both the objectives relating to the conversion to renewable energy and the objectives relating to the reduction in CO2 What is then, in turn, one of the major challenges facing us is that we also need to move forward. And at least when it comes to the question of the continued expansion of wind energy, what kind of scenarios we need to work on in the future, an excellent analysis has been done by the Danish Energy Agency, which points out that there are good opportunities to give wind a very central location through a wind or hydrogen scenario. What is also characteristic of the analyses is that they say that we can take it quite calmly, that we do not need to make any decisions now, that we can do it by 2020, whatever scenario we choose. And it has to be said that if we really want to ensure that electricity becomes an important part of the solution to the energy challenge, both in the transport sector and in the heating sector, then we actually have to make decisions in a relatively short time, otherwise we risk investing in other and worse solutions than that, for example. to invest in heat pumps. And we also run the risk that the introduction of electric cars, which is an important part of the solution, will not happen. That is why I think it might be appropriate at this time to get a clear statement from the government of what it is basically for a scenario one sees as the solution to the question of the transition to renewable energies, which then makes us independent of fossil fuels. When are we going to take the necessary initiatives? And when are we going to discuss seriously what will happen after 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113141017	Thank you, sir. Per Clausen as rapporteur for the questioners. Then it is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113141028	I would like to start by thanking Mr. Per Clausen and Mr. Henning Hyllested to ask the question which of the Danish Energy Agency's energy scenarios the government will take as its starting point and when the government will take the initiative to start negotiations on what will happen after 2020, so that decisions are not taken in the coming years that make it more difficult and more expensive to choose, for example. a hydrogen or e.g. a wind scenario. I wrote a chronicle earlier this year in Politiken, where I argued that Denmark should focus on a development similar to the Danish Energy Agency's wind scenario. I did so in order to raise the debate on what the main course of the green transition should be, and this is a debate in which, of course, the question today hits directly, and thank you for that. We in Denmark have a very ambitious objective of being free of fossil fuels by 2050, and the achievement of an objective that is so ambitious is a challenge. This requires a number of major decisions, and it requires a significantly changed energy system in order for us to get this far. The green transition is necessary in relation to global climate and environment, and it is important to think long-term in order to achieve the objectives both for Denmark and for the European Union; of course we all agree with that. The Danish Energy Agency published earlier this year a report with scenarios for Denmark's energy supply towards 2050. After all, the report shows that conversion to an energy system without fossil fuel use in 2050 is possible for Denmark, without it implying a huge bill. It underlines to me that the investment in the conversion of the energy system is a healthy investment for the benefit of future generations. But the way forward towards this energy system, which does not use fossil fuels, is not clear; there are, if I may say so, many roads leading to Rome, which are more roads to choose from. Overall, the Danish Energy Agency shares the development in two roads: there is a wind path that is a significantly increased electrification compared to today, and a biomass road that points to a fuel-oriented system, i.e. a little as we know it today, just without fossil fuels. If we go the wind road, then these analyses indicate that the biomass consumption in 2050 is of a size, so Denmark can produce the required amount itself. If we go the biomass road, we will be dependent on large imports of biomass in the future, and it may have the same problems in itself as imports of fossil fuels, that is, sustainability and security of supply. Some questions have been raised about this. So I think it is relevant to raise two questions: should we even choose a main track? When is the choice to be made? To the first question, of course, I say that the answer is yes. By not choosing and just allowing development to flow, we risk misinvestment. If we choose a main route, we can better design instruments so that they do not stick in conflicting directions and potentially lead to misinvestment or dependence on inappropriate solutions; investments in energy are typically very long-term. The second question, which is when to choose, is it difficult to answer quite so precisely. With the Energy Agreement, we have a roadmap that will reach 2020: we do not have to choose the main lead today, according to our current energy agreement, a new agreement will be negotiated after 2020. When I have raised the debate, it is because it is complicated matter and I think it takes plenty of time to think about it. Looking forward to 2020, there are some important considerations to bear in mind. First of all, it is important to point out that there are many common elements in the energy system, whether you choose the wind path or the biomass road. It can also be said that common to all scenarios is the development we envisage up to 2020. Whatever road we choose, energy savings and energy efficiency improvements are important, no matter what future we look at, we must become more resource efficient; here we must continue in the positive track we are already on. It is essential to say that on the biomass road there is also a significant amount of electricity produced from wind and sun. The countries around us are also expanding with renewable energy sources. We are looking into a North European system where electrifying a greater proportion of consumption would make sense. This can be done by means of heat pumps, and it can be done by means of electric cars, and technologies such as these are actually small Columbus eggs. They help fit electricity produced with renewable energy into renewable solutions, but they are also very effective solutions. They make energy consumption, resource consumption more efficient, regardless of other developments, and that means that it is better to use these new technologies than not. If we look at the period after 2020, we see that these are the very long-term investments that need to be taken care of in particular. A large central power plant or a cable connection abroad is an example of projects that take a long time to plan. These are projects that have very long lifetimes. There must be fixed framework conditions so that we ensure sustainable investments of the large, and here the degree of electrification and the amount of biomass we have at our disposal mean something. The infrastructure must be properly dimensioned if we are to be economically efficient in our conversion. It is of great importance how much wind power there should be in the system, for that dimensioning. So there are some different types of choice ahead of us, and some of them will depend on the long-term development of the energy system. That is why it is also important that we continue the debate, continue the analysis work and have a good basis for making decisions after 2020. The time for us to sit down at that negotiating table needs to be used to develop our knowledge in order to discuss the policy after 2020. In the first place, the forthcoming tax and subsidy analysis can provide input to the discussion on what financial instruments are most appropriate to ensure the conversion. I have also asked the Office to launch an update on the offshore wind farm report so that we can find the best locations for future offshore wind farms. Similarly, we need to look at how carbon phasing can be speeded up. And with the Finance Act money has been set aside to demonstrate large heat pumps so that we can ensure a positive development for a technology that I am absolutely convinced will play a role, an important role, in the future. In general, technology development needs to be closely monitored. However, this also means that the technology catalogues, which are an essential part of the basis for future work, must be constantly updated, and I expect updated technology information for solar cells to come in a short time later this year for all the other technologies. So we are already working on the preparatory work for a new agreement that will set the framework when the current one expires. In conclusion, I have to repeat that my announcement in Politiken about a wind power investment is an input to the debate about Denmark's continued green transition in the long term, where the goal is an energy system without fossil fuel use by 2050. This is a very important debate. I'm glad we're gonna get this in here today too. The implementation of concrete proposals for conversion must be based on analyses, thorough analyses, broad negotiations. The Danish Energy Agency's scenario is a useful tool, but it needs to be supplemented with further analyses and tools to have a really good basis for making decisions for new initiatives after 2020. With a solid basis, the objective is that we can provide a clear framework for an energy policy that will also be based in the future on a broad political majority, just as it is today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113141735	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Per Clausen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113141748	I would like to thank the Minister for his answer to the question that we on the part of the Enhedslisten have asked and to start by saying that I am very pleased that the Minister at least states that a choice must be made in relation to the direction in which we are heading. In my view, it is relatively obvious that it must be the case that a choice has to be made, because the choice is of course crucial to the investments to be made and, if we make the wrong investments, it is really binding on us to take certain political decisions that we may not want to make. I know that some people think that making political decisions about the way in which we should go in energy policy is something strangely planned economic bad, because it is much wiser to leave it to market forces to decide. To this end, I have to say in all silence that whatever might be considered in the short term by an electricity company or district heating company in the short term as the most economically sensible action, it is essential that those decisions also include the question of environmental consequences in the longer term and that some assessments of what should happen to the energy sector should also be included in the longer term. This has been what has characterised the Danish energy policy for a very, very many years, namely that we were well aware that we had to make decisions and plan because we were talking about investments that were very, very long-term. It can also be said in all silence that for some reason nature and the environment and the laws regulating such things are relatively indifferent to market forces and to what the market economy and market economy calculations are supposed to do here and now. We must therefore actually tackle a climate, energy policy and environmental challenge. Perhaps, then, when I think that the Minister could venture a little more forward in his shoes, it is because it is not quite right that we can just wait until after 2020. It is true that we have reached an agreement that is valid until 2020, but that does not change anything about the fact that, for example, we are dealing with an agreement that is valid until 2020. in the district heating sector, there are investments that can have a crucial impact on the extent to which we are able to make use of the Danish wine in district heating production in the future. It is absolutely crucial that we focus today on solutions that involve precisely the winery that exists, and these are decisions which it is also sensible to have taken now. For it is also now that we can see that one of the disadvantages of being very focused on vindel is the question of what to do about excess electricity generation during the periods when the wind has taken power a little plentifully, if I may say so. There has been an export model, and we are also talking about the idea that if we can improve transmission systems and have a well-functioning electricity market at European level, that will be a very important part of the solution. The problem is that it does not change anything about the fact that the possibility of exporting and selling electricity out of the country is not a good solution if you produce a lot of electricity during a period when others also produce a lot of electricity, whereas there is no doubt whatsoever that storage in the district heating sector is a very, very good and sensible solution, which can even lead us to have an environmentally and climate-friendly district heating sector in Denmark. It is quite obvious, just as it is a question of ensuring that electricity, either directly or in the form of hydrogen, is placed in a much more central position in the Danish transport sector than it has so far. It is also one of the areas where it can be said that Danish wine can be used. It has to be said in all silence that we made good and sensible decisions in the context of the Financial Law Agreement. I totally agree with that. It was good that we got the question of heat pumps going a little further. It was also good that, in the context of a different discussion on a slightly different issue we had, we had to move forward to do something in relation to rates and tariffs in order to give heat pumps a better competitive position. And it is also good that the government has promised to do something about the charges on electric cars. However, we need concrete solutions on the ground. It is also true that there is evidence that the Minister has finally succeeded in agreeing with the European Commission on how we can support solar energy in the future. However, it is not good enough that we still do not have a strategy for how we can use solar energy to a much greater extent as a supplement to wind in electricity generation. For that is also one of the things that can create greater security of supply. I think that when you read the energy analyses prepared by the Danish Energy Agency, you can see that it is actually very difficult to imagine if you took them seriously that we should end up somewhere other than with a wind or hydrogen scenario. For there are two very important points of criticism in relation to biomass. One is that there is a challenge in terms of the environment and climate that we are unable to solve, at least not fully. And the second is that it is said that there is also a risk of a supply problem. After all, it can be comforted that the climate change that has already come and is on the way in the future will certainly ensure that in the future we will be provided with plenty of wind. You don't have to worry about that. So it can be said that part of the problem is also part of the solution. But, of course, we look forward to continuing discussions with the government on how to proceed with the elements that we, among others, are. got put in the lake with the Finance Act. And this emphasizes that although there must always be a broad majority behind energy policy in this country, the current political majority still has the opportunity to take initiatives that go beyond what can be agreed with almost everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142350	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142354	I understand that Enhedslisten is in favour of Denmark being freed from fossil fuels in the energy supply at some point, and that is a view shared with the government. This is then a view that the Danish People's Party does not agree with, but that is why we can discuss the view of Enhedslisten. What I'm gonna ask, sir. Per Clausen about, is: What will happen to the deposits of fossil fuels that may still be left in the Danish underground, for example. oil in the North Sea or shale gas when we get to the time when we no longer have to incinerate it ourselves? Should it still be extracted? For it is still high values that lie, and it is a great income for the Treasury today, and it may be so at that time. What does Enhedslisten mean to happen to the deposits of fossil fuels at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142439	There is no doubt that if you take the climate challenge seriously and recognise that it exists and that the burning of fossil fuels and CO2 and that means that among other things. Therefore, we in Enhedslisten are vertically opposed to the ideas and thoughts that lie about extracting shale gas in Denmark, even if it should prove possible to create an income. I guess so, sir. Mikkel Dencker is right in saying that in the future we have a challenge to establish an economy in Denmark, which means that we are not dependent on • in terms of keeping pace with welfare initiatives etc. It'll probably take a few years, probably even longer than I'd like. But it is the reality that it ends up like this, and it does, after all, if demand disappears, then that is the end of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142543	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142547	I understand, then, that Enhedslisten believes that we should stop extracting fossil fuels from the Danish underground, and thus that the Treasury should miss out on the revenues that people currently have from fossil fuels. But isn't it a bit double moral that Enhedslisten is happy to spend the money that today comes in from the North Sea oil? For example: Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten together have made an agreement on the Togfonden DK, where it is precisely oil money that is spent on improving the railway network. Shouldn't Enhedslisten have been out of that deal when you think it's wrong to extract fossil fuels?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142632	No, because it is very sensible to use fossil fuel income for a conversion that makes us independent of fossil fuels. That is why the train plan financed by this is a very good and sensible way of doing it. What is far more problematic is, if we maintain the dependence on fossil fuels in, what can we say, the general operation of the welfare society. Then you have a problem, because at some point we have to get rid of it. But using oil money to make oneself independent of oil is a really, really sensible idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142701	Yes, and the next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142707	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur is not so much in favour of using market forces in the field of energy. Do I have to understand this in relation to these scenarios that Enhedslisten will already decide what will happen after 2020, which scenario it might be of those that the Danish Energy Agency has set up? There could also be other scenarios that we need after 2020. Does Enhedslisten want us to decide now, with the great uncertainty that exists in the energy sector, and with the many different things that are happening in the energy sector, here in the Folketing, what is going to happen after 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142742	We have no doubt that a combination of a wind scenario and a hydrogen scenario is the right choice. There's nothing new about Enhedslisten saying that either. We have been saying this for years. We are just really happy that the Danish Energy Agency's scenarios confirm that from a factual point of view we are also right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142804	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142807	I very much disagree with the Enhedslisten. After all, there is so much going on in the energy sector, and I think that as politicians we are in fact the poorest in assessing what kind of energy solutions are needed up to 2030. Does Enhedslisten really think that we in this Parliament have found the great wisdom in this area so that we can already predict what the energy mix will be like in 2029?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142837	After all, we need to make decisions that affect the investments that have an impact on what kind of energy will be offered in 20 to 30 years' time. I know, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt is very knowledgeable in this area, and that is why he knows as well as I do that decisions are being made on investments in the coming years, which cannot just be rolled back. That is why decisions are being taken, and I say that we will then have to make decisions on the basis of what we know today, and there is no doubt, for me, from an energy, climate and environmental point of view, that what is at stake in more wind energy, more solar energy, is the right way to go. As to what exactly the mix is going to be, I believe that Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt is right that no one can say that exactly now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142921	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party also asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142926	I would like to follow up with a question on the same track. Is it not true that if we decide now on what technology we adopt, then we are blocking the development of new technology from 2015 to 2020, which could then prove to be better than the one we have decided to use today? Wouldn't that be a self-target?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113142949	I just think that we should be aware that the same view can be put forward in 2020 when we come to negotiating it there. One might also ask: can we now decide that we want a wind and hydrogen scenario, because could we not imagine anything else? I believe that, based on the knowledge we currently have, we can make a decision that what we want to prioritise is wind and sun and, to a limited extent, also bioenergy. I think we can do that; we can decide on what priority we want to give, based on what we know today. However, in a few years' time we will have to do so unless we leave it entirely to chance, and I cannot recommend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143029	Sir. Mike Legarth, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143032	Yeah, but I mean, sir. Per Clausen, that he can tell? He may be a wise man, but that he is so wise, I would question. What if, in a year or two, a new technology is invented and hydropower turns out to be a stable energy source that you can use on an equal footing with wind and sun? Then we have now decided how we want our energy mix, and then you cannot take that technology in because you have settled on something else. Is it not appropriate, therefore, to wait and allow the market to decide, to allow these technologies to grow and to mature, and then, when it comes to making decisions, to choose the best ones and, moreover, to make a continuous distinction between those who are, rather than being determined by something specific?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143118	A large part of the decisions taken when investing in the energy sector are decisions that cannot be rolled back afterwards. When you have decided to invest in something specific, it has to work for a few years because it has to interest itself. That is why the decisions are long overdue and I think we should not try to pretend that this is not the way it is. I guess it's been 12 years or something since up in Aalborg we had a heated debate about whether we should spend more money on burning waste. We lost that discussion on the part of Enhedslisten because everyone else agreed that we should burn off more waste. Now everyone agrees that we should use that waste for something else, but we are still hanging away on a bill that we have to pay off for 20-30 years because a wrong decision was taken 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143206	Thank you, sir. Per Clausen as rapporteur for the questioners. Then we move on to the rapporteurs of the parties, and the first is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143220	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for taking the initiative that today we should have a question about the forward-looking energy policy, including what scenarios the government will choose after 2020. After all, we have been presented with a number of scenario options; yes, there are actually four scenarios. There is what is called the wind scenario, which is pure wind; there is biomass where biomass has to play the crucial role; then there is bio+; and then there is the hydrogen scenario. It's quite good that we get reports on this and analyses of it. This is important so that we can deal with the forward-looking climate and energy policy. However, I think it may also be a little early to be fully aware of what this scenario is going to be after 2020. There is a lot going on in the energy sector. There is technology development, research, development that will affect our decisions. Therefore, it is all too early to assess this here and make a decision, but it is good to have a discussion about what it is for scenarios that are possible to choose. We in the Left think this is sensible, and we also share the Minister's view that it is absolutely essential that we as politicians should be dressed as well as possible when we have to take decisions on the forward-looking energy policy. But I am also of the opinion that some of the poorest in assessing what the right thing to bet on is is politicians. We don't know how to do this. We have some political views on what we want to do, but when it comes to what is going to happen in the field of energy forward towards 2030, I think we 179 in here can contribute to it, but there are enough people, businesses and others outside who are far better at assessing and making decisions about what is right to do. That is why we also believe that we must use the market far more than we do today to decide what decisions we have to take. We need to provide renewable energy and thus ensure that we get the lowest possible costs when we carry out the green transition. For one of the major challenges of the green transition is the economy. That is the price involved in implementing the green conversion. It is not least the undertakings in competition that are exposed to it. The bill for PRS rounds 7 billion. kr. This year. Just since we entered into the energy agreement in 2012, it has increased dramatically. Something is happening in the energy sector all the time. We are currently seeing how the oil price is close to halving compared to what we imagined when we concluded the energy agreement. The emergence of switching gas in the United States also means that there is pressure on energy prices. CO2 We simply have to take stock of that. In addition, we in Denmark are strongly influenced by what is happening in the European Union. After all, the European Union sets the agenda for what we should do in climate and energy policy. After all, we in Denmark have quite well lived up to the agreements that the European Union has implemented. After all, both the Heads of State or Government and the Ministers for Climate and Energy have agreed on very, very good objectives. Under the former government led by the Danish Prime Minister and Climate and Energy Minister, agreement was reached on the 3x20 objectives: 20%. renewable energy by 2020, 20%. CO2 more energy efficiency. These were quite excellent objectives, and we have delivered the goods with the energy agreement. But most recently, we have seen that the EU Member States have agreed to reach 27%. renewable energy by 2030, and Denmark already achieves that target by 2020, yes, we actually achieve 38%. renewable energy by 2020. This means that we are far, far ahead of the EU targets by 2020. It will also have an impact on what kind of climate and energy policy we need to pursue in the period 2020-2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143726	Thank you. For the time being, two colleagues have asked for access to short remarks, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143736	Well, I'd like to know if Mr. Knox... Lars Christian Lilleholt believes that the energy agreement we have concluded, which is now being implemented, was a mistake, that it was wrong...
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143742	No, it was an agreement that the Left stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143745	I think it might be better if the rapporteur waited a while to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143747	Well, that's nice to know, but you could see it that way. In any case, it must be understood in the sense that Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt believes that we should pursue a different policy in the future. But then I will go to the second question, where I just want to ask Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt, whether I understand what he is saying about Denmark's overimplementation of EU rules in this area, so that it means that the policy of the Left is that we now have to slow down the transition to renewable energy, that is to say that it has to be put on standby for a period of time until the others have caught up with us. Is that where we ended up with mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's famous green revolution, that is, that it must now be stopped because it has now gone too fast?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143826	We must not put a stop to the green transition, but we must think about how we implement it, and we must also think about how far we can afford to be ahead of the other EU countries. This costs in other areas of Danish society. It costs welfare, and it also costs the competitiveness of Danish industry, and we also have to think about that when we have to plan the forward-looking climate and energy policy. However, this does not mean that we should put everything at a standstill from 2020. We just have to implement it with some common sense... we can also call it green realism.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143901	Sir. Per Mrs Clausen for the second brief remark, which is almost the third brief remark, but we are letting it go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143906	Thank you, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt for help, I think that's good. But I'd like to ask Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt: What does the Left really mean? In other words, the energy agreement that was made, which contained a clear priority for certain forms of energy, was right, but in future it must be different. It's going very fast. It must go slower in the future, but it must not be stopped. In other words, one can get a little out of hand with regard to what the Left basically means. I think that is quite, quite unclear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113143940	I think it is quite clear what the Left means in this area. We are, of course, in favour of the energy agreement in which a broad circle of parties is involved, yes, even Enhedslisten is part of it. However, when we are going to organise the forward-looking climate and energy policy, it is our view that we will then have to let the market manage something more and find the cheapest possible solutions. We should not predetermine the amount of wind, the amount of sunshine, but rather have some general objectives as to what share of renewable energy we want to see in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144013	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Steen Gade from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144017	Thank you. What I wanted to ask, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. I got the impression, you know, you don't have to do that. And then I became even more confused and almost thought it was nonsense when the rapporteur said that the poorest people to decide are politicians. It's like sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt suddenly forgets everything he knows about the fact that it is a system governed by taxes and subsidies etc. Today. If we then say that we do not want to interfere, then we will also have the distortions that we see today. I think it would have been interesting if the rapporteur had talked about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144126	There are plenty of errors that we need to correct, and I agree with the questioner. But for us it is absolutely crucial that we set objectives, and then we let the actors within a political framework achieve the objectives, rather than that we here in the Folketing have to regulate completely into the detail, how much wind there should be, how much sea wind there should be, how much solar energy there should be in the Danish energy supply. We think that's the wrong way to put it together. There, we think, we need to choose the cheapest possible solutions and not make ourselves fully aware in advance of what the energy mix should be like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144202	Sir. Steen Gade for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144205	Thank you. Now I take what the rapporteur of the Left says as saying that it was probably a rather plentiful remark about the poorest people deciding whether this was a politician. I understand that we actually agree that politicians need to set objectives. Okay, that's it, and we're going home. The second thing I will follow up on then is: Well, we are not going down and discuss it in the smallest detail, at least not before 2018, where we are going to make the next energy agreement. But shouldn't we make a new energy agreement in 2018? That's what I'd like to ask, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144249	Maybe even before. At any rate, it is absolutely crucial that we get the discussions started before 2018, and there are scenarios here from the Danish Energy Agency a good basis for discussing. For us, it is absolutely crucial that, from 2020 onwards, we deregulate this sector. There has been far too much detailed regulation in the field of energy. We need to deregulate things and create greater freedom for what solutions we need to focus on in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144316	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, Mr President. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144324	Thank you. Thank you to the authors for calling the debate. After all, this is a central discussion for future generations, for today's wallet, and for the climate that we are going to leave behind for subsequent generations, but also for what is happening. There should be no doubt that for us in the Social Democratic Party it is very, very central and very, very important that we stick to and continue to discuss our objective that we should be completely free from fossil fuels by 2050. How do we get there best? How is this to be organised? We cannot, so to speak, discuss that too much. Unfortunately, apart from all the international reports that show that climate change is an increasing problem, it is also a very serious problem and that it hits really, really hard, not least in some of the world's poorest countries • that there is everything, too many citizens here at home, who have become acquainted with what in the past were called extreme weather phenomena, but which are more and more similar to everyday events, or at least something that we experience much, much more frequently. The good thing about the scenarios that we have discussed a few times today is that they show that it is technically and economically possible to convert to a fossil-free society. That's a very, very important point, because then it's like within reach. What they then also say is that there are several different ways to do it, and of course that is what we are discussing today. I don't think you can get on with that too soon. One can easily discuss how to avoid making misinvestment, but it is also clear that we will not be able to discuss the precise energy mix today. It was also the result that when the Minister raised the debate on the wind scenario, we had a good talk about what it was in the wind scenario that we actually appreciate, among other things. the fact that we have a strong position in terms of wind, which means that we create thousands of jobs in Denmark and we create a lot of exports. We have a leading position which we must, of course, take care of. But whether it should be exactly the wind scenario, or whether there should be a little more sun, because it turns out to be cheaper, we cannot decide at this stage. In return, and this is so good about it, fortunately, there are also many common denominators in the different scenarios. It can be difficult when they discuss it out there and one says that now we have to expand so and so much with wind, and then you are asked whether you also agree that wind needs to be expanded. Yes, of course wind needs to be developed, because what is the matter with the vast majority of these scenarios is that we need more wind power. This is both because it is a good way of getting energy and because it is actually the cheapest, because if you are going to create a new capacity today, land wind is cheaper than creating new coal power plants. I think we should take that down and then reap it, that the wind blows for free, and that we therefore have a very good energy source. But there are also challenges with that energy source. They are, of course, among other things, that we need to be better at integrating it into our existing system. The electricity that comes in as popularly said as the wind blows, we need to be better at using when it is cheap, through intelligent systems, and we need to be better at using it in the heating sector, which we have taken steps to, among other things. with the latest Financial Law Agreement. We need to be better at storing that energy at all. That is why I am pleased that we are now addressing both the very concrete discussions when the tax and subsidy analysis comes, but of course also on an update of the basis on which we should, so to speak, take our decisions ahead of the new energy agreement, which is due to be concluded by 2018, but which we can just as well start discussing the basis for already now. In fact, I think we are in a situation where, if we do this wisely, we can create a lot more jobs than we know of today. This may mean that this will be an even bigger export adventure for Denmark. This may mean that we are helping to create some of the solutions that the rest of the world would like to buy, which hopefully means that we can deliver a climate in better balance to our children and grandchildren. On behalf of a number of parties [V, S, RV, SF, EL and KF], I shall read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption • It is essential for long-term investments in the energy sector that there is stable framework conditions and confidence that energy policy is based on a solid basis. Therefore, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to establish the necessary knowledge base in good time before the parties behind the Energy Agreement of 2012 take up discussions on concrete additional initiatives for the period after 2020. V 10).
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144826	Thank you. The motion for a resolution which has just been read out will form part of the further examination of the question No. F 8. There is one colleague who has asked for access to short remarks, and that is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144837	I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Since social democracy is in favour of a fossil-free Denmark in a number of years, what will happen to the deposits of fossil fuels that may still be left in the underground at that time? Should we then put a plug in the hole and stop using them any longer and not get the revenue that can come up with it? Or, even if we do not want to burn it ourselves, should we continue to extract it and just sell it abroad instead? What does Social Democracy mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113144908	I believe that, as with so much else, it can be a little dangerous to make fast-track decisions about what is to happen in 2050. But it is clear that for the Socialists it is the case that for example. Our resources in the North Sea are some, we are pulling up and, moreover, we are making sure that what we, as a society, are winning on it is something that also benefits society and is also being used in the transformation that we have discussed earlier today, namely the agreement we made with the Danish People's Party as well, on a train fund where we spend Community money, you can say, our common money from the North Sea, to make a green conversion of our train transport. So we would very much like to take advantage of the economic opportunities and whether we should also do so by 2050, which is very far off in the future, I do not think we should be determined now. The important thing for us is paragraph No. 1 that we in Denmark are seeking to be and will be fossil-free in 2050 and that we have point no. 2 is pursuing in the European Union, in the United Nations, in all international relevant forums the objective of a global agreement, which means that we need all countries to reduce their use of fossil fuels. My hope is that we have come very far along that road so that there are not so many buyers in 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145024	Sir. Mikkel Dencker for his second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145027	Thank you. I did not ask what the Social Democratic Party meant in 2050 either. There is also a risk that the rapporteur will no longer be in the Folketing at that time. But what I was looking for was also what the Social Democrats think now, i.e. whether we should continue to pump up and then pick up the revenue and then the fossil fuels must be burned by somewhere else, or whether we should stop, because it is some worse stuff, something sinful something that we must stop with. Can we not have a clearer answer to what the Social Democratic Party thinks today, not in 2050, but today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145103	We do not regard it as a sin, I think, that we are today exploiting the oil resource we have in the North Sea and that we are spending the money that comes from there, among other things. to make electrification of our railways and, by the way, faster transport across Denmark. So we have no concern about ensuring that, by the way, as much as possible of the money coming from our common oil, if you like, out in the North Sea, will also be used for common goods. I think that is important. But the discussion about how long it takes before fossil fuels are no longer to be burned off in this world depends to a large extent on how ambitious we are and how quickly we can get international agreements that hopefully and probably will reduce demand for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145146	Thank you. No one else has asked for access to short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Mikkel Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145200	I would say that in the Danish People's Party we do not share the premise for this debate on questions from Enhedslisten, namely that Denmark must stop using fossil fuels within a number of years. It is well known that the government has an ambition that Denmark should stop using fossil fuels by 2050, and already in 2035 it should be stopped in the electricity and heat supply. This is an ambition which the Enhedslisten and other parties here in the Things are supporting and, as I understand Enhedslisten, the purpose of the debate we have today is to get the government to explain how to achieve this goal. To support the government's ambition, the Danish Energy Agency has developed a number of scenarios that illustrate different ways of building the energy system with different weighting of the green energies as possible paths leading to Denmark as a fossil-free society. These scenarios also include calculations on the price of all these scenarios, i.e. what the transition to fossil fuels will cost, and they show that it will have significant costs for Denmark, for the simple reason that green energy is simply more expensive than fossil fuels. In the Danish People's Party we do not share the fossil-free ambitions of the government and Enhedslisten. In the Danish People's Party, therefore, it is not particularly important that detailed plans are made for how the government's ambition can be achieved. No, for the Danish People's Party, the most important thing is that Denmark has a secure and stable energy supply and, not least, that the Danes and Danish companies have access to the cheapest possible energy. Therefore, it is natural for us that fossil fuels are part of the Danish energy supply as long as there are no cheaper and equally safe and stable alternatives, and there are not now. In the Danish People's Party we are certainly not opposed to green energy. Green energy can be included in the energy supply on an equal footing with fossil energy, but it must always be able to withstand being measured on the price in relation to fossil fuels. If green energy sources cannot do that, then fossil fuels must be used instead. This does not mean that we exclude that a fossil-free Denmark can come at some point, but it just cannot become an end in itself for us. As long as green energy sources are not as stable and safe and are not as cheap as fossil fuels, yes, we believe that fossil fuels should be used in Denmark. The consequence of following the strategy of the government and Enhedslisten is that Danish households and companies are forced to consume more expensive energy than they need. For an ordinary household, a larger electricity and heating bill means that you have less money left for the things that are more fun than paying the electricity bill. For companies, higher energy prices mean that competitiveness is deteriorating and this leads to higher unemployment in Denmark. It is not a reasonable price to pay for an over-ambitious climate policy. We will have a poorer Denmark if we achieve the fossil-free ambition, and that is not what the Danish People's Party wants. Finally, I should like to make a proposal for adoption, which is on behalf of the Danish People's Party and Mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance. It sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a stable and cheap energy supply is of great importance to the whole of society. The Danish Parliament invites the government to organise the Danish energy policy in cooperation with the Danish Parliament's parties, so that consideration of the lowest possible price and a safe and stable energy supply are the crucial parameters. Fossil fuels, on an equal footing with fossil-free energy, must be considered for the organisation of the most appropriate energy policy. • V 11).
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145543	Thank you. The proposal for adoption which has been read out will form part of the further examination of the question. For the time being, two colleagues have asked for access to short remarks. The first is sir. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145556	I have a relatively short and simple question. I'm just gonna ask sir. Mikkel Dencker, whether he believes that there are no environmental and climate considerations at all, also consideration for future generations, who could argue that renewable energy sources should be given priority over fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145615	I can say that Enhedslisten well knows that the Danish People's Party is part of the energy agreement, and the energy agreement also means that money is allocated for, for example, research into green energy. It is because, in the case of the Danish People's Party, it is exciting that there is a prospect of developing new forms of energy which can eventually replace the forms of energy we are using now. The fact that we are not so busy abolishing fossil energy at this time is about the fact that if you assume that the climate impact, as many people believe there is, is there, Denmark's contribution to the climate effects that may be so insignificant in relation to the global emissions of CO2 is therefore not going to force the development and be so busy in Denmark in the belief that we can save the whole world. We can't. We must also bear in mind our own economy and that Denmark is not lagging behind the rest of the world economically.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145714	Sir. Per Clausen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145717	Does this mean that the view of the Danish People's Party is that the climate change and environmental impact are real enough, but can we not really do anything about that in Denmark anyway? And if that is the position, is it also the view of the Danish People's Party that no one else is doing anything about it, and then there is no scam or any advantage in developing renewable energy sources that could be the solutions of the future? In short: we expect it to continue as it does now, and then we must build some higher dikes while we still hopefully have cheap energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145756	Well, I can put it in that way that we do not believe that Denmark can solve the climate problem alone. It is the case that if we assume that there is a climate impact from human activity, then it is not only Denmark that is responsible for this climate impact. It's the whole world. And so it can be that Denmark makes itself fossil-free, of course not save anything if the rest of the world does not abolish fossil fuels. At the moment, there is a dramatic development, for example. China, where you have a growth in your CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145836	The next person who has asked for access to a brief remark is Mrs Lone Loklindt from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145841	I therefore agree with the rapporteur that we cannot save the whole world in Denmark alone. But I am still concerned with the answers that came here before, because it sounds as if, as long as the whole world is not in the process of thoroughly changing its energy consumption, neither can it pay itself that Denmark does anything; for we might as well just live best and cheapest on the short track. I just want to say, is that really sir? Mikkel Dencker's view that it's no use doing anything? Does the Danish People's Party actually want us to have the cheapest possible energy, and then the rest of the world really has to cope with climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113145929	It is quite true that the Danish People's Party wants us to have the cheapest possible energy; I can confirm that. The Danish People's Party is part of the energy agreement, among others. also to help promote research into green energies, and that is because we want to help develop our society and promote new technology in all areas. Not only in the field of energy, but in all areas we are in favour of technological development. There is also a self-sufficiency strategy in that if we can develop the natural forces we have in Denmark to give energy to us, then in the longer term we can also be free from importing energy from regimes on which we do not want to be in the pocket, as if we were to rely, for example, on importing gas from Russia; we do not want to do so. Therefore, it might be reasonable to develop the technology we have in Denmark. But that does not mean that I believe that we should abolish fossil energy to a certain date or do so until we have developed the green technology to be the cheapest one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113150026	Mrs Lone Loklindt, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113150030	But does the rapporteur recognise that there are bills that it is actually worth paying early, in other words because the bill is getting bigger if you wait long? Is this a principle that the Danish People's Party will recognise, and can the Danish People's Party thus see a great interest in us actually getting started early in Denmark paying a cheaper bill because we want to prevent it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113150100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113150101	It is easy to say that this is the case, that it is generally the case that there may be bills that are cheaper to pay in advance, or investments that are good to make. I'm just not saying that's true on this point. Denmark has taken very big steps forward in terms of energy policy or climate policy, far ahead of most other countries, and it has been expensive, and it has no particular impact on the climate if it is assumed that it has any impact at all. So if we are to take even greater and faster steps, it will be more expensive for Denmark, without having any climate impact, and then it will be more of a religious cleansing of conscience.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113150139	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Lone Loklindt from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113150154	Thank you. The Radical Left wants Denmark, the European Union and the whole world to do something about the extensive climate change that we see. Perhaps, unlike previous speakers, we believe that climate change is man-made and that something simply must happen if our weather and climate are not to change dramatically. We have seen how extreme weather has been again over the past week, and DMI and other researchers point out that the weather of the future can offer twice as frequent situations with extreme weather as we have just had. We are therefore pleased that Denmark has an ambitious green policy, a green energy policy that tackles the problem, while of course recognising that Denmark cannot solve the problems of the whole world. However, the fact that we are dealing with the problem creates thousands of jobs in the green industry at the same time, and it creates plenty of solutions that we can export and which can thus help to influence other countries' approach to energy supply. Other countries are also engaged in a green transition, and there is simply a job in taking the lead and developing solutions. Already last year came up to 40%. of wind power, and by 2020 it will be at least 50 per cent. As you know, the ultimate goal is to be free of fossil fuels by 2050. In the Radical Left we are working for a green future and we are sure that it is worth the price. And we are in the process, and the green conversion of energy consumption is actually going well. The Enhedslisten then asks what the next steps should be when the current conciliation expires in 2020. We have also heard here that we will have to discuss this by 2018, first there we will finally have to decide, but there is nothing wrong with getting the discussion started, and that is what we already are today, but also in relation to the scenarios presented by the Danish Energy Agency. For the Radical Left, there is no doubt that we need to develop even more with renewable energy. We particularly believe in the wind scenario, where we expand the number of wind turbines. It is not because we believe that wind should be the only source of energy, but because, for example, it is not. After all, biofuels have the challenge that we would then import a lot from abroad, and that puts pressure on the world's natural resources at all. But if we are to have more and more power, it also requires us to use power in our heat production and transport much more than we do today. And that is what we are doing, among other things. via the Finance Act, where together with Enhedslisten we were given money for heat pumps, which means that we can use power from wind turbines to heat. And we need more of that. Therefore, there is work going on with a wide range of analyses in the Ministry of Climate and Energy, which will shed light on how best to develop green energy in the coming years. We look forward to continuing this work, including here in the Folketing, and we hope that we will be able to reach a broad agreement and thus ensure that the investment framework can continue. Of course, we support the text that we ourselves have been involved in drafting, and we look forward to the continued work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113150540	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for access to short remarks. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Steen Gade from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113150551	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Enhedslisten for the question, which, on the basis of these wind scenarios, will try to have a discussion of it, which is the slightly longer-term perspective of the energy agreement that we have in the light of our common goal, apart from a few parties, that we should be fossil-free by 2050. As we see it, this energy agreement we have is the first step in what one might call the paradigm shift in Danish energy policy. It is, in fact, a reconstruction of our society that we are in the process of doing. It is a reconstruction that creates a great deal of need for what every reconstruction creates a need for: labour, innovation and new ways of doing things. So we certainly welcome having this debate in the Danish Parliament, also in the light of one thing that SF has put a lot of emphasis on in the Finance Act agreement, and that is that we will have a debate about our energy future in Denmark, where citizens can apply for grants from one pool, and that is one of them. based on these scenarios about what energy future we're going to have. I think that the debate here is a good one, and if we could then, within a month, agree to structure the decision on how to implement the information funding, how organisations, associations and citizens can organise debates on how to achieve this energy future, then we would have come a good way of involving the people in these considerations. I think I have said that before here from the platform... is an important part of it, i.e. to get a broad section of the population to be involved in this discussion, including with all the arguments from those who think this is wrong. So what are we gonna be betting on? It is not the case that four scenarios have been set up which one chooses between, but some lines of sight have been set up which one also has to start working on. Where is it? Where's our arrow? Our arrow is on the wind scenario. Do we think it's perfect and it has to be the same? No, of course not. I have then had some questions for the Minister and some discussions about that, for example. is too little solar energy in this. We think so, not because we are just making it up, but because we actually believe that solar energy is cheaper than it has been calculated so far in the Ministry. That is why I am pleased that the Minister is now indicating that there are some new figures on this. But also because I believe in my crystal ball to be able to see that there is a huge chance that it will be cheaper and cheaper, and it complements fantastic good wind energy, in the sense that there is most sun in summer and there is most wind in autumn, winter and early spring. So that way it will be a good addition, because the two technologies complement each other well. Biomass is also part of the wind scenario, it is not just wind. We believe that it would be wise to invest in biomass production or consumption in the energy sector, which is roughly equivalent to what can be produced in Denmark. We attach importance to the fact that when it is the energy sector, when it is the transport sector, we get second generation biofuels going and, in my opinion, also production in Denmark. I think the most important thing about this discussion, and it's gonna be my end... is that we need to use it to prevent wrong decisions. We need to find out whether we agree in this Parliament that we do not believe in any more large central power stations in the future, otherwise we can risk having more large central power stations with coal or biofuels, but if we do not believe in it, we should not try to make a lead, so we risk making the wrong decisions. We are already taking that risk because, for example, we are taking the risk. in relation to district heating, some subsidy models and economic models have actually been created, which means that you have an incentive to choose biofuels solutions. But if we actually think that it is wiser because we have so much wind energy already today that they use heat pumps, then it is good that we have got a grant pool in the Finance Act, I am glad we got that, but that actually means that we also need to get this tax and subsidy analysis in place precisely so that we can get subsidies and taxes to fit in with what we actually want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151108	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151114	I know that SF's climate, energy and building rapporteur, Steen Gade, is a very wise man who knows a lot about climate and energy policy. But I must also say that if you are so smart that you know what is going to happen towards 2030, and can already decide that it has to be a wind scenario, you are still a very smart man because there can be really, really a lot going on. We have been able to see it most recently only with the question of the evolution of oil prices, i.e. how it affects the world's climate and energy policy and what opportunities there are. After all, the Minister played on behalf of the government a short time ago with a proposal that a windmill should be set up a week for 30 years. I would like to ask the rapporteur: is this a proposal supported by the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151202	Why don't I answer the first question about me being a smart man? I don't think I am. But I don't really understand, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt's question is certainly not, if I am to understand it seriously because I am not saying a hundred percent how it should be. But Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt knows just as well as I do that the decisions now to be taken in the district heating sector may be counterproductive to what we want if we do not know what we want. That is the challenge, Mr President. Lars Christian Lilleholt: If we do not give a direction, we may have some decisions that we do not want. I know that the Left is an expert on this, because it was a Left-led government with a conservative minister who cancelled a offshore wind farm in his time. A few years later, when a Left Prime Minister, Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, realized that it might not have been so wise, we got one at Anholt, with the result that Anholt Havvindmøllepark became more expensive than if we had built it in relation to the timetable that was made by the previous government. So it is a matter of due diligence, which is why we need to know where we want to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151315	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151317	This means that the price means nothing to SF. Whatever it costs, we just have to go through with a scenario that we seem to want to decide in a very short time or a few years. In other words, what this costs for businesses and consumers does not include the SF rapporteur at all. It's just that we get stuck to a scenario where we have to have the whole of Denmark sticked to with wind turbines and have to have so many offshore wind turbines around Denmark that we can probably supply three times as many households as there are in Denmark, i.e. if we implement the scenario towards 2050 that the rapporteur is proposing. I must say, I am deeply puzzled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151401	I can understand that if that is what the rapporteur of the Left has got out of what I said. I said that the main thing about this debate is that we have come up with a proposal for a popular debate and that we have a common agreement that the next energy plan should be drawn up in 2018. So I have not, of course, expressed what the rapporteur of the Left says. I don't care about economics at all. But I can read what the wind scenarios cost a year, and I expect that too, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt can. So I have not chosen the most expensive and I am counting on us to do it as cheaply as possible. But I am concerned that the Folketing is living up to what I thought we agreed on. It was sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who set the goal that we should be fossil-free by 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151449	The next brief remark is from Mr. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151454	There is no doubt that it is a good idea to set out guidelines, and it is also a good idea to think carefully and have a pointer mark. But from there, and then to make a decision too soon, it's a long way. And that is what I think this debate is about: when do you decide? If you push, you will make your investment too quickly, and then you will shut off the possibility of technology coming forward which may prove to be a much better solution than the one you know. Now I know that Mr. Steen Gade belongs to a socialist party and not to a communist party, but in the Communist regimes they were following 20- and 30-year plans and decided that it was the right thing to do. Steen Gade should not stand up for this, but it is precisely a documented example of the need to be careful not to be too early on how developments should be. It is better to leave market forces and the various technologies neutral, and when they are there we must decide how to apply them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151558	I do not know how it can be perceived as having to be set up today, a hundred per cent, when the proposal for adoption that we are putting forward together states that energy policy must be based on a solid basis and we must create the necessary knowledge base in good time before the parties behind the energy agreement of 2012 resume discussions on additional initiatives for the period after 2020. I do not know how it can be perceived in the world as if we are going to define in detail today what that should be like. But I stand by the fact that I have a direction, but that is what we are politicians for. That's why we're not just administrators and civil servants. I've been trying to be an official. Fortunately, then, some politicians gave some guidelines, and I had to comply with them. But we...
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151657	Sir. Mike Legarth, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151659	Thank you for the comments and the confirmation. At least now it's crystal clear, and I'm glad. However, I think it was the rapporteur himself who blamed us for the fact that we would wait until we could not wait any longer, even if the district heating sector needed a solution to what we would do, because then they could use well-known technologies now and get to grips with them. That was my opinion, but I have received a slightly different one after hearing Mr. Steen Gade's answer, and that's fine. But Mr. Steen Gade also used the Anholt offshore wind farm as an example, and that is a scare example when we look at the economy. That is why I think it is important that we do not get caught up in this. We are merchants, and we make sure we get the most for the money, and that is also what I understand SF and Steen Gade now mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151745-2	I don't mean anything new now, compared to what I've said before. I mean exactly the same thing, for example. district heating And we will have to decide which road we might most like to go, among other things. because the current tax and subsidy system is not the free market. These are, in fact, some political decisions, I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Mike Legarth, who makes people may choose biomass. They may have to choose biomass, but I'm just saying, shouldn't it have been thought through a little more than just been determined by random subsidy and tax models that we inherited?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151842	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Villum Christensen for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113151849	Thank you. According to the proposers, it is important for the government to adopt a certain technology scenario in relation to the desire to achieve a fossil-free society by 2050; we have heard that sometimes. I also understand that initiatives to strengthen this transition beyond 2020 would be needed now. When I look at the state of the current energy agreement for the period 2012-2020, I have to say that it does not seem to be a wise course to set out precise assumptions about subsidies and charges in relation to a particular scenario or a particular technology mix. That's what's implicit in this. The two key financing elements of the energy settlement, namely the security of supply tax and the PRS, are either scrapped or decommissioned in their assumptions. As I recall, the total cost of the energy settlement was 3.5 billion. kr. Every year, and now the PSP is on what was it, sir. Lilleholt said? kr. annual. One is that one can easily be wrong in an assessment of the market or in some business cycles. That is also what has happened: energy prices have suddenly fallen and you have to pay for it with a lot of PRS. Something else, and this is perhaps the most important thing, is that you can never predict the development of technology • never. We saw this with the solar cells, which only one year after the settlement turned out to have far too favourable subsidy rules when prices fell as they did. Three times we had to change the principles of settlement with enormous frustrations and social waste. Think of all those who invested in vain! That is the logic of this thinking and, as I said, it was just one or two years later. How, then, can one think that it would be wise to continue this governance philosophy, in which certain technologies will have to receive certain subsidies for 10, 20 and 30 years to come? It's a mystery to me. I simply cannot understand that. The best way to do this is to go the opposite way: to reduce all these subsidies and to allow the market to decide what is most sensible. First, it ensures that we get the cheapest solution, that there is no misinvestment, because in here at Castle we suddenly have new ideas, and that we do not get into the absurd situation, that we have to have, for example. four times as many wind turbines with huge subsidies • as is what the Minister wants • while at the same time we do not have the technologies to collect the energy, which results in us having to give it away virtually, as was the case when it blew here at New Year's time. Of course, this is a problem that can only get bigger, the more we lend people money to PRS taxes when we, as now, impose certain technology choices without the market being prepared to do so. Thus, Danish tax-polluted taxpayers pay in this way to produce a product which cannot be sold on the market and which, for example, the Norwegians may receive quite free of charge for certain periods. What we are talking about here is not the five-year plans which the authors of their old communist dream society looked up to, but they are even more absurd 20-30-year plans. It is as if not everyone has understood why the socialist world and its planned economy collapsed in 1989. It is not enough to change the colour and tell us that it is now about the green society if you maintain the same governance philosophy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113152318	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for access to short remarks. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113152334	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten and Mr. Per Clausen to initiate this debate. It is always wise to be at the forefront and to have an open-minded debate on how to deal with energy policy. It means a great deal to our society and to the green transformation that we need to make, which is of course sensible, because we want to have as healthy a world as possible to live in, clean air, clean food, good nature and order in the environment. After all, it is the underlying agenda for our energy policy: we must ensure that the planet we have taken over and are responsible for must be in a slightly better constitution when we pass it on to the next generation. So it is a noble agenda of values that is the basis for us to deal with how we should then use the various sources of energy that are available. After all, we have decided that Denmark should be a fossil-free society by 2050, but before we reach 2050, it is also my view and the view of the Conservative People's Party that we should use the oil and gas we have. We have to extract it, we have to get the most out of it, and then we have to try to prepare ourselves for which one of the scenarios we are going to use; whether it is the wind scenario, whether it is biomass or what is called bio plus, or the hydrogen scenario. And that must be shown by the time it is too early to take a position on it now. But it is all very well for us here in the Assembly to have a debate on it and to have the various issues, advantages and disadvantages reversed, and to find out how we should look at it. With us Conservatives, we are very much in favour of green change. After all, we are a green party, we are the green party in the blue block, and we want to stick to that, we think that is very sensible. But the green change is also going to happen as we can actually pay it. This is the case for the citizens. It must not go any faster than the citizens are able to pay for the green change, so that it does not go beyond the freedom and independence of the families, and it must also be taken into account by companies that we do not impose any burdens on them that make them lose competitiveness and make them more difficult to create the growth and employment on which we, as a society, depend. That is why it is very important that we not only talk about becoming ultra-green, but that the balance is in order: every time we make new moves, whether it be towards citizens or business, it is important to think about what it costs and what the bill and the consequences are, so that it is not going to go too fast. There we can say that right now we are a little ahead of us because the others have not been watching, and we must also be fully aware that it takes a wealthy society to make an expensive green change because it costs money. It is a sensible investment, it is a good idea to do so, and we believe that it is absolutely essential that we ensure that the green conversion is carried out. However, as I have said, the pace must measure up to what citizens and businesses can overcome. Then we also believe that, when it comes to deciding how to combine energy sources, account must be taken of what technologies are being used. We believe that this should be taken very carefully into account, and that is also what has characterised the questions I have put to the various rapporteurs: it is no use being too early to adopt a specific technology. We reserve the right to be technology neutral, so that there is a free market, and on the day someone gets a good idea and gets invented and market matured something that no one else had seen, and suddenly has a product, a performance or an energy source on hand that we as a society can benefit from, we must not be locked by the fact that we have made premature decisions in the Folketing that make us unable to apply such things. That is why we need to think carefully and let ourselves be well dressed by the experts we are surrounded by. It's the DEA, it's our officials, it's other experts. They must have the opportunity to provide us with the knowledge and information they have. There will then also be some contributions from parties from commercial interests, and then on the day we will have to decide how we will politically choose to use the various sources of energy so that it will be of the greatest benefit to the citizens. That is the work we are doing, that is what we are preparing for. That is why we think that today's debate is a good one, and thank you again for it to the Enhedslisten, but in our eyes and in our optics it is too early to get to grips with something now. We can start a preparation, we think that is okay, but we will wait until 2018, as has also been agreed in the current conciliation. This is, moreover, a good starting point because we now see that the European Union suddenly casts doubt on the PRS, that is, the electricity tax that is being paid for renewable energy: now suddenly there is doubt as to whether that tax can be made at all in the way we are doing now. That means, of course, that it will actually blow up the energy conciliation we have if we do not find a solution by 2017, when the regime we have now expires. It just shows that it is a matter of patience and thinking and making the right decisions when the time comes, and we look forward to contributing to that. These were supposed to be the words of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113152855	Yes, and there is a brief comment. Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113152859	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur is proud to be a member of the Green Party in the Blue Block. Is the rapporteur also proud of the energy reconciliation that the rapporteur's party signed up to in 2012, on the basis of the view that I myself heard here at the end of the debate about the difference between the evolution of the PSO charges from 1⁄2 billion? to 7 billion. within 2-3 years and then the ability to anticipate anything? So the idea behind it that one can know that one will be able to produce so many megawatts for it and the price of that and the time and the whole way of thinking: not in communist five-year plans, no, in eight-year plans. Is the bourgeois rapporteur, with the green light, proud of the way in which energy policy is conducted and proud of the result achieved in relation to economic developments?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113152959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153000	The Conservative rapporteur is very proud of the energy conciliation we have made. There's no mistake about it. I am also proud to represent the green party in the blue block... the green party in the Folketing can also be said. There's nothing wrong with the energy settlement. What is in the way is that the conditions have changed. In relation to what we agreed, there are some things that have changed completely, that is, the price for citizens has increased, and competitiveness has proved to be completely different from what we agreed in 2012. That is why, since 2012, when we were made aware of what the consequences were for companies, which for several reasons experienced a high PSO, which developed higher than we had agreed, we asked for the agreement to be renegotiated so that we could bring it down to a level, because it cost 3 1⁄2 billion. That's it, sir. Villum Christensen himself mentioned that in his rapporteur's speech, that is quite right. It's usually data when they're from Mr. Knox. Villum Christensen and good for it. But that was the price we thought was fair, it was the price we thought we could impose on citizens and businesses. It was a reasonable price for green change, but it must not be increased. That is why we insist so hard that it stays there and as the crisis gets tougher and competitiveness gets harder, we must also take that into account. After all, nothing has been taken away in the Danish Parliament either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153124	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153127	Thank you. I therefore hear that this is a very good conciliation, but that the conditions have just changed too quickly. What makes the rapporteur think that it will be different if we maintain the thinking that we can see through which technologies are developing at what prices in the future and avoid misinvestment? This whole debate is about misinvestment or the possibility and risk of misinvestment. That is how I understand it. What is the greatest opportunity for misinvestment? A market-oriented approach, therefore, which does not go out and say what individual technology should have from subsidies and how much should be produced at any given time, but lets the market decide it, or is it a system in which politicians can suddenly change the situation, just as they did with the solar cells, and how very many really got misinvestments made, because the prerequisites were changed for political reasons? Where are the misinvestments made? Where do they have the greatest opportunity to take place? My question to the bourgeois rapporteur is: is it the market which is best to ensure that there is no misinvestment, or is it a publicly funded system which at any time depends on the whims that may now reign here at Castle?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153254	There are many things in that question. In any case, I can say with certainty that what is absolutely crucial is that if all countries had a PSO as we have, we would have had no competition difference; then Danish industry would not have been burdened more heavily in Denmark than they do in the countries with which we compete. Thus there would not have been a difference in competition and therefore not a competition problem; then it would have been the same charges and there would have been the same conditions for everyone. That is what is important: what happens if there is not the same conditions for competition. Another example could be that one country has a corporation tax of 30%, while another country has a corporation tax of 10%.; it would also give rise to a difference in competition which would make it difficult for the company in one country to compete with the company in the other country because it is cheaper to operate and because the framework conditions are simply more attractive. But you also have to take responsibility, and when we reach 2018, decisions have to be made, because everyone else also needs stable framework conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153354	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153405	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the parties of the Danish Parliament for the debate and the Enhedslisten for raising it. I think that in many ways it has been illustrative of the Danish climate and energy policy with the talks we have had here, and I would like to touch briefly on a few of the points that have been made in the debate. I can easily see that we can reach agreement on this, and I also see with great satisfaction that a very broad majority is behind a proposal for adoption today. We have a debate which, among other things, is: centre on how to predict in a market and on assumptions that change. Among other things: Mr. Jens Joel said that if the sun turns out to be much cheaper next time we have to make a decision on the upcoming round of investments, then of course there must be more of that. Sir. Steen Gade has the same attitude and may think there is too little sun in the current system. I also think that Mr. Per Clausen has made such a statement. All of this is something for which we want the best possible basis for decision-making before we take a position, and it is clear that the next time we look at a future period of energy policy, we will see what kind of technology has the lowest price and the best design in terms of our needs. And by that we are also playing a precise part in it, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt says that we must, of course, let the market decide what is of the supply of different energy sources at the time when we make our decision for the coming period. Then there has been a debate, particularly here at the end, on market forces and energy policy. It's interesting. I heard, among other things. Mr President, this is the last debate we have before us. Mike Legarth and Mr. Villum Christensen on where there is a risk of misinvestment, and I heard Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt talks about how prices for oil and shale gas lie and change all the time. I have to say that if one understands that there is no misinvestment in the private market, that is precisely a misconception. The current very low oil prices are sweeping their feet throughout the shale gas market, where very significant investments have been made in anticipation of a market price for oil of more than USD 100 per tonne. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time we have had a debate on this subject in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Many people in the US shale gas fields are going to burn economically, simply because oil prices have fallen in relation to the assumptions underlying their investment decision. The central point here is that in this high Things together we have taken decisions that have brought Denmark longer than any other countries in the green transition, and we have not done that by setting up the wind turbines ourselves; we have done that by letting the market do it. However, we have ensured that the market for wind turbines could make decisions in confidence in the settlement that we are putting them in the perspective of the market. This means that the security that the market requires has been provided, and that means that people have dared to make their investments in confidence that they would also bring them back home. We have simply succeeded in reconciling all these things in a way that has brought Denmark a long way. That is why I welcome the debate today. It confirms to me that we agree that we are, of course, going in and providing some security for a market in the best possible set of assumptions we may have, but that we are not, of course, more blind or stubborn than we are then correcting. It is clear that when prices or other things change, we have shown ourselves capable of acting in the energy conciliation circle; we have addressed the various and quite a lot of things that have happened since we concluded the Energy Agreement in 2012. I assume that the same thing will hopefully happen again, that is to say that we will make decisions on the basis of our best knowledge and that we will then be able to take action, even when we have next decided on the next step in the green transition. As I said, I thank you very much for an excellent debate, and I am perhaps so radical in my mind that I can easily see that we can find some kind of consensus here to continue working on. It may be an illusion that I am making, but at least I am encouraged by the debate. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153804	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153808	Thank you. I am aware that the government wants Denmark to be fossil-free and that fossil fuels will have to be abolished in the energy supply in a certain number of years' time. However, I would like to hear how the government thinks it should be put into practice. Should it be by a definite ban on fossil fuels? Or should it be, you might say, in the softer way, so that those who would like to continue using them can be allowed to do so, and that you might be allowed to do so, for example. through financial incentives • just stimulates people to switch to green energies, and that is what is the cheapest for users? Is that the whip or the carrot we need?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153847	That depends on a concrete balance. After all, we have a series of examples of carrot use, and we have a series of examples of how we use it in Mr. Dencker's terminology is whip. For example: After all, we have said in the energy conciliation that we will not allow people to install individual oil pine after a given date. It is not because we deprive people of the right to have oil pine, but we are just saying that in planning new buildings, this is not going to happen. I would imagine that the same could be said of petrol cars in the distant future, where you have an excellent, both operationally and purchasingly equally affordable alternative in terms of electricity or hydrogen. It could be said that from that date on it will no longer be possible to buy a petrol car. I hope we can do that as there is a consumer choice that is as good both in terms of prices and in terms of technology, so that we can phase out old technologies. We see this happening in practice right now with incandescent bulbs, where there is a fine alternative in the form of bulbs that give the same light but use less energy. That's when we phase out people's ability to buy light bulbs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153945	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113153947	Thank you. I ask, among other things. Because it is important for people when they, for example, are involved. must invest in a gas guy how long they can be allowed to use gas. Can they be allowed to use gas after 2035, or will the government come and say that it is now forbidden? That is why it is important for many people, and also for small local cogeneration plants, which may need to invest in a new gas boiler because the old one is earned. Then they need to know how long they can be allowed to use it if they can use it throughout their lifetime, or if in a few years the minister will come and say that it is now forbidden. And then it loses its value completely. So it's because there's a lot of people who need this information to invest and make a sensible investment decision after. So the government has to get on with something here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154033	Thank you. Well I am actually exactly of the opinion that one should be able to invest in confidence that one can use the product one buys during the product's lifetime. That is also why we are out in such an incredibly good time when, for example, we are out in such a good time. say that from that and that date we do not want to be able to install an oil pine, and from that and that date we do not want to be able to rejoin natural gas, because we then expect that with the very long warnings we will be able to use the product we have throughout the lifetime of the product.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154105	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154107	Thank you. I just have one question in order to understand the Minister's market logic... let me call it that. I took note of a wording which sounded like the Minister wants to put his hand under the market and secure the market by providing extra security. It was something like that. What is the point of the market if it is said that we must now have so many megawatts and so many megawatts that they have to be produced at the times and times that are settled at that and the prices, and if the world market situation changes, the money is withdrawn from the collective? That is what we are doing when consumers have to pay 7 billion. kr. in PRS instead of 11⁄2 billion. kr. in PSO. Back to the question: what is the market thinking when the risk is passed on to the public, while the investor is sure, both how much to sell and at what price? That is what I understood as being the starting point for the thinking behind this scenario, which is why I think it is quite fundamental. Does it look like the most socialist economy, or does it look like a market economy, or what is the Minister's view of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154238	Thank you. Society, expressed by the decisions of this High Things, is the buyer of a service from the market. We say we want to take off a certain amount of green energy, and there is then a bidding contest. This applies to offshore wind farms, where the cheapest and otherwise the most sensible offer wins. We don't interfere with whether you buy mills in one make or another, we don't interfere with how you put this up now, but we guarantee a settlement price. In this way, you have a market player who is in competition with other market players wins an order to deliver a service that we as a state demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154316	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154319	After all, the government and the Minister have already started what the government is planning to do after 2020. I am thinking of two proposals made by the Minister. One of them is coal-stuck. Is it government policy that coal should be phased out and be completely away from the Danish energy supply by 2025? The second is the question of setting up an offshore wind turbine a week from now on and for the next 30 years. Is it also government policy, or is it such a report that I understand the Minister said to a newspaper, Politiken, where it was the Minister's own proposal and not the government's proposal? I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is still the case that it is the Minister's proposal and not the government's proposal, or whose proposal it is at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154408	Thank you. We have not taken a position, both on one issue and on the other. On behalf of the government, I am investigating what the price and cost will be speeding up our phasing out of coal from 2030 to 2025. Only when we know the price and technical possibilities will it be a question we have to take a position on. That it would be desirable to phase out coal in the past, after having seen the United Nations Climate Panel's report here from Copenhagen, which very much limits the amount of CO2 As far as offshore winds are concerned, there is a scenario analysis from the Danish Energy Agency that we have discussed here today. In it there is a scenario called the wind scenario, which I personally am in favour of, but that is not something we have to decide on until we get there in the conciliation circle. I have no particular desire to order a given number of offshore wind turbines per week or month. It's just the power figures that are all in the wind scenario and have been mentioned in the daily press that have led to that thing with an offshore windmill a week.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154512	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154514	Thank you. I'm very surprised. In other words, the Minister is playing out with proposals for a coal freeze in 2025, which is the Minister's own proposal and which has not been calculated before. The Minister is earlier today saying that it is important that we know the basis and that we are well prepared to carry out the green transition, but then the Minister will nevertheless come up with a proposal that has neither been calculated nor anything at all. I would like to say that I am deeply confused and I believe that those who attend the debate here, and the citizens, Danish citizens and Danish companies, are even more confused when it is the case that we have a government that does so. It is perhaps the panic of the government that such proposals are being played out on its own behalf, but it is not the government's policy anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154557	I'm sorry, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt is confused. It is a desire on my part to investigate the possibility of accelerating or advancing a coal stop in Denmark that I have announced. I have started work to find out what the costs and the technical possibilities are. If it turns out to be a profit or free of charge, I see no reason at all not to do so, I would even very much like to do so in line with the United Nations climate panel's calls from Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154626	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur for the questioners to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113154642	I should also like to say that I think it has been an exciting and excellent debate. After all, it is nice to be able to conclude that there is actually a majority, a relatively large majority, in the Folketing, who agrees that until about 2018 • The Left thought it could be a little sooner, and I agree with that decision about what it is a kind of renewable energy we will be looking for on market terms. I think it is a good thing that there is agreement on this, because the crucial issue here is how to ensure that in future we have an energy supply in Denmark which is based on energy sources that do not create additional environmental problems and climate problems. That is what is, as it were, at the heart of it, and we must do so as cheaply as possible. And I therefore agree that both the wind and hydrogen scenarios are, in my view, characterised by a fatal miscalculation of the possibilities in the field of solar energy. So there are certainly fatal errors, but what is crucial is that we take a position on what environmental influences we will accept and what climate influences we will accept, and then on that premise and on that assumption we are prepared to say that we are taking the energy sources that may appear. So let me just say that, in reality, solar energy and the way we have dealt with it are, of course, a good example of how we can take account of the fact that the economic conditions for a system change and then change that system. One can then be appalled at the fact that the combination of the bureaucracy of the government and the European Commission has taken quite an unreasonable amount of time and that in some areas it is still completely opaque, I agree, but that does not change anything about the fact that this is an example of how we can handle it here. I understand that it has been a few years since one went on a study trip in Singapore, because that must be the reason for this very great dislike of five-year plans, which marks several of the somewhat more right-wing rapporteurs in this debate. I can assure the rapporteurs that in Singapore we do not regard five-year plans as an expression of the fact that there is still a kind of socialism left, although I think that the chief minister down there has a past as such a semi-socialist 40-50 years ago. I am old enough to almost remember it, but, of course, as an expression of the fact that it may be very sensible to plan where it is that you want to focus your development, even if you are a fervent supporter of capitalism. Let me also say that one might well have a dream that we could ensure that the future development of our energy policy should be based on such purely market forces. That would be very, very far from the system we have today. I know, sir. Villum Christensen agrees with me that it is very far from the system we have today, with a number of taxes, where there is the problem that some of them go in the opposite direction to the environmental and energy considerations we want to achieve. It's stupid, of course. It needs to be changed. However, the prerequisite for leaving this to the market was, at least, that the environmental and climate costs which were the consequence of wanting to have a certain form of energy were included in prices, and that would require us to have a quite comprehensive system of taxes on various forms of energy, which would have to be determined on the basis of how much climate impact there was and how much environmental impact there was. In fact, I also fully agree with the European wind turbine industry, which has on several occasions taught me that what they need is not subsidies of any kind at all; no, they just need producers of other forms of energy to pay for the environmental impact they have. In this respect, I accept that the systems we are building in Denmark are systems which make up for the fact that we cannot get through with this. I also think it would be very difficult to get it priced precisely and correctly, and that would give rise to a lot of argument and much discussion about what would be the right price. So perhaps the method we use in Denmark is not so stupid at all. And it actually makes it quite easy to predict what electricity will cost, because electricity costs what it is supposed to cost, because when the price falls on one, the PSP increases, so it's not because you can't calculate what the price will be. Let me just say in conclusion that I think the crucial point in this question is that when you say that it should not go any faster than we can afford, you should think that it should not go much slower than the world can handle. I would say that I was very pleased to hear once again the view of the Conservative People's Party that it stood by the conservative value, that we have a responsibility towards future generations, and that it was basically very, very wise conservative view that we should not leave bills in the children's room or environmental and climate bills. If it could just spread to the remaining parties, which still think that it should be done, leaving the bill to the children and grandchildren, that would be very good. But all in all, it is reassuring, I think, that there is still a solid majority for us to pursue energy policy in this country and that we have a responsibility towards future generations. I think that's nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113155212	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Voting on the proposed amendments will not take place until Thursday 15 January 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150113155229	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 14 January 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
