ParlaMint-DK_20150128130055	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Climate, Energy and Building (Rasmus Helveg Petersen): Bill no. L 116 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Denmark's Undergrounds. Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 117 (Proposal for a Law amending the Financial Statements Act and various other laws. Bill No. L 118 (Proposal for a law on alternative dispute resolution in relation to consumer complaints (Consumer Complaints Act)) and Bill No. L 119 (Proposal for a Law on the Safety of Electrical Installations, Electrical Installations and Equipment) Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen): Bill No. L 120 (Proposal for a law amending the law on social services and the law on legal certainty and administration in the social field. Bill No. L 121 (Proposal for a law amending the adoption law, the law on social services, the law on parental responsibility and the law on legal certainty and administration in the social field. Bill No. L 122 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Authorities of Greenland, Law on the entry into force for Greenland of the Law on the Effects of Marriage, Law on the Procedure for Greenland and the Criminal Code for Greenland. Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 123 (Proposal for a Law amending the VAT Act. Bill No. L 124 (Proposal for a Law amending the Tonnage Tax Act and the Seaman Tax Act. Minister for Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill No. L 125 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Danish citizenship. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 61 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the regulation of fines). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Martin Lidegaard) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written Security Policy statement 2014. R 7). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 3 February 2015. The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Martin Lidegaard) has also informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the development of EU cooperation in 2014. R 8). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 3 February 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130337	The first question has been put to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and that is what Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130351	Thank you. And the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior is this: when the Minister has said that if there is a need for intermediate financing, because the oil price is just different, then we deal with it, where is it that the government will find the 18 billion? kr., which is currently missing in Togfonden DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130413	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130415	Thank you very much for the question. This gives me the opportunity to remove some of the uncertainty which some people are trying to persistently, I think, to blow up in relation to the Train Fund DK and the funding to realise the hour model that the government has agreed with the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten on. What has been agreed is that the government, Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten, based on the change in taxation of North Sea oil, have allocated up to 28.5 billion. kr. to Train Fund DK. As you know, the Left is not included in the agreement on the harmonisation of taxation in the North Sea. This is actually a bit surprising to me, because it is an agreement that ensures that all oil companies in the North Sea are subject to the same set of rules and an agreement that benefits the Danish economy. The same group of parties also concluded the agreement on the Togfonden DK, which is to bind the country closer together and strengthen public transport. Nor would the Left be involved in this, even if it was stated earlier to have supported investments in electrification and in the hour model. My view and that of the government is that the time model is so important to bind Denmark better together and support growth that we must find the means to realise the project. With regard to the financing of investments in the Train Fund DK, I must then just make it quite clear straight away: the Train Fund DK is not dependent on the revenue we get from the North Sea. This is also explicitly stated in the agreement. It is financed, as is normally the case, with expected revenue and the estimate on which it was based at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130547	Thank you very much, or perhaps thank you very much, I would say, for the answer given by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, who certainly did not make any sense, but this is not the first time that the Minister has given an answer that makes no sense. I am trying to ask the question again and then hope that the Minister is able to answer it. What this question is about is that the oil revenues currently available mean that the Danish DK Fund is underfunded. 1) Does the Minister agree with that? 2) What does the Minister and thus the government intend to do in relation to the under-financing that is there? Is it intended to be financed by the forthcoming financial laws, as Henning Hyllested of Enhedslisten said last week, or is there going to be another way of financing the lack of revenue needed to realise the Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130638	I understand that it is important for the Left to create uncertainty about this project. But there are two political questions to be answered. One is that we are in favour of an equal tax on North Sea oil income. And yes, we are in favour of this, together with a conciliation circle, and it generates revenue; at the time of the agreement, it was estimated at this 28.5 billion. kr. The second question you can answer is whether you are in favour of tying the country together in the way that the hourly model sets out with all the lines that feed into it, because then you have to give priority to resources for it. That is the difference between the conciliation circle and the government and then the Left, and that is the political question which cannot be changed by the many questions put by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130722	Thank you. Now we are in the situation that the way things work in the Parliamentary Chamber is that I am asking the questions to the Minister, since the Minister is so privileged to be a minister; that is why I am not sitting where the Minister is sitting. It is to be hoped that the Left will be able to do so after an election, and then the current Minister will be able to ask questions to a possible blue government. In other words, the Left is concerned about whether there is security for the money that we think we are getting in, but not least the costs that are. That is why the question is very trivial: at the moment the Train Fund DK is underfunded with small 20 billion. kr., so how do you plan to finance the lack of revenue in the future? Should we take this over the Finance Act? That is what Henning Hyllested has said, and that is why I can ask the Minister whether Henning Hyllested has misunderstood the agreement that Enhedslisten has made with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130815	The answer is quite clear from the agreement that has been reached and that has been concluded in accordance with all the usual principles. The agreement on uniform taxation in the North Sea increases state revenue. That's what the Left didn't want to do. But it is clear that when you change it, you get structurally more revenue, and that's what's funding this project. And then the agreement clearly states how to stay within long-term and medium-term economic objectives, but of course any fluctuations will be dealt with along the way. There is nothing new under the sun compared to this way of financing; it is also the way in which previous governments have dealt with this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130853	Then we have an enquirer, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128130859	Thank you. I thought it was a little fun to hear the Minister say that the Left is out to blow up this case and this problem, i.e. that a very large black hole has now arisen in the Togfonden DK. So it is not the Left that breathes into the fire, if I may say so. This is among other things. the recognized think tank Kraka, which indicates that a huge problem has arisen here. It is recognized economists in a row who now say that it is quite unusual and historic that a government has gone out and spent a whole lot of billions of dollars without the money coming into the box. I can also hear that the Minister is not particularly interested in answering the questions raised here by Troels Lund Poulsen. You are in the process of such a misguided maneuver, and now you move on to a distraction maneuver... that was something we worked very hard with in the army in the old days... when you point out that the Left has also supported the hour model in the past. Yes, we have supported the idea of getting faster trains and shorter travel times, but we have never determined to spend so many billions of dollars to win so few minutes between Odense and Århus, because there we first had to relate to the strategic analysis. So I would ask the Minister now to stick to the answer to the question. And that's why I have to try to ask how to close the hole: do road projects have to be postponed across the country to close this hole?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131013	There is 1 minute in the first round and 1⁄2 minute in the second round. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131019	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen now discusses what this is about, namely how we occupy Denmark with railways. First of all, the train of the hour model links the cities closer together. helping to increase commuting countries, making the workforce more mobile and improving our competitiveness. It is also in the agreement on the Togfonden DK that we upgrade traffic to the time model trains, and it will benefit regional traffic. Let me give just one example: On the distance between Thisted over Struer to Vejle and Langå, there will be the possibility of higher speed, and the same will be possible between Holbæk and Kalundborg, Bramming and Tønder, Skanderborg and Skjern as well as between Holsingør and Østerport. It seems to me that the Left is forgetting to explain why it is that it would not help to ensure uniform taxation in the North Sea so that all these good initiatives could be financed and set in motion. It is not enough to have the intentions if you do not have the will to do something about it. The government has, and fortunately we have found a majority in favour of that, unfortunately, not a majority with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131119	I can hear that the Minister would rather ask questions to the Left rather than reply to what we are asking. It is no coincidence that we have invited the Minister for Economic Affairs here today, because a very, very large gap has arisen. We have lost out and committed 28 billion. kr. That is good enough, with the exception of a reserve of 5 billion. kr. kr., which does not exist. We need to have a clear answer to that: how is that gap to be closed? Because the money's kind of spent on fine plans, good things. But does it have to be with increased taxes? That would be a pretty strong turn on the tax screw. Should there be less welfare? Or, for example, should a large number of important road projects be postponed across the country, as industry is demanding quite strongly at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131204	The truth is probably in the detail, because that's the last of it, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen here says, which is crucial, that the Left will not give priority to the resources to develop our railways and time model trains, but only talk about it on festive occasions. Basically, there is nothing unusual about a majority undertaking to finance a number of expenditures, in this case investments in our common railways and railways. And there is agreement on a structural change in the tax system and on improving state revenue. That's what we've been doing here. There's nothing unusual about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131236	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen has the last question in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131242	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for Black Talk. You always have to sign for that, because it can be difficult to deliver. But let me conclude with a very trivial question to the Minister: does the government intend to recalculate the assumptions now made in relation to oil prices at an earlier stage than the government is proposing in the agreement that has been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131309	There's nothing unusual in this deal. We have changed the North Sea taxation, we have thereby increased the state's revenue, and this is the basis for what we agreed together with a majority to prioritise, namely to improve the operation of trains in Denmark and to bind the country closer together. The Left did not want to participate in this, neither revenue nor expenditure, and it is an honest matter. Of course, oil prices, productivity developments, tax revenues and everything else will be taken into account on an ongoing basis when we make economic statements. But I just want to make it clear: there are 28.5 billion. kr. The train fund DK and these 28.5 billion. kr. does not depend on oil prices, volume of production or production costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131347	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is Mr. Mads Rørvig, and he also has a question for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131357	The question is: what is the Minister's response to the criticism from Hans Jørgen Whitta-Jacobsen, President of the Economic Council, who criticized the financing of the Togfonden DK and said that the Train Fund is a strange cashier's model, which has created an entirely illogical link between oil revenue and investment in railway tracks?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131417	Thank you for that question too. It sounds as if there are many misunderstandings about the financing of the Train Fund DK, which I would like to help clarify. The Government, together with the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten, has agreed that, on the basis of the harmonisation of taxation in the North Sea, a financing contribution of up to 28.5 billion may be provided. kr. to Train Fund DK. The investments in public transport through Togfonden DK help ensure the future of the Danish train network and bind with the time model Denmark closer together. It contributes to growth and improves the ability to commute across. It is therefore quite explicit from the agreement that it has been agreed that any deviations between the realised and the anticipated additional proceeds of harmonisation will be dealt with in the context of the organisation of fiscal policy in accordance with the medium-term fiscal objectives. You can read it in black and white, so there should be nothing surprising about it. I would just like to make it clear that changes in oil prices and the like affecting the state's revenue from the North Sea have no bearing on the size of the Train Fund DK. Deviations between the realised and the assumed will be dealt with in the context of the ongoing organisation of fiscal policy within the framework of the Budget Act and the medium-term policy objectives. That is why the only questions that need to be asked are: will you help to harmonise North Sea revenues and will you help to give priority to rail operations in Denmark? Unfortunately, the Left will neither, but the government and a broad majority in the Folketing will.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131541	I think that we in the Danish Parliament would do well not to spend the money we do not have, because it sends Danish economy beyond the abyss. The Minister says that any deviations will be dealt with, and that is exactly what is very interesting, because I think we all agree that a little has happened to the oil price since the agreement on the Togfonden DK was concluded. It is quite interesting to hear the Minister, and I would like to ask the Minister: what are these deviations? How big have they been and how will they be handled? The big question is how to finance the huge gap that has arisen in the Train Fund DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131619	The big question here is why the Left will not be included in the agreement and will help to harmonise taxation in the North Sea, so that everyone works on the same terms. This undoubtedly leads to an increase in revenue for the State, which can be invested in public transport. This may be due to two things: that we do not think that there should be a level playing field for everyone who picks up oil in the North Sea or that we do not want to give priority to investment in public transport. As we heard from the Left Transport Rapporteur earlier, it is probably both that are the case. That is why it is just that I have to come back to say that there is nothing unusual in a mechanism, and the questioner, as chairman of the Committee on Taxation, must also know that an agreement is made based on the estimates at that time and, of course, the fluctuations that are in the years to come are dealt with, just as we do with the agreements we have inherited from other governments, which have provided a certain amount of revenue at a certain point in time. There's nothing unusual about it. The train fund DK and the realization of it are about political will. It has the government and a broad majority in the Folketing. I'm afraid the Left doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131721	Yes, sir. Minister, but there is also something called due diligence, and it may well be that the Minister had planned to review these oil prices sometime in five years, but if you can see that oil prices are falling as dramatically as they do, then it has to be due care to say: OK, let us look at it again, let us recalculate oil prices. When does the Minister intend to recalculate the revenue from the Togfonden DK? Because I think the Minister will find out in that recalculation that there is no 28.5 billion. kr. And the question is, where is the money to come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131753	I understand that the Left is out here in a place where we need to whip up some dust, but I just have to bear in mind that there is nothing unusual about a majority concluding an agreement that changes the tax system so that the state gets more revenue, in this case by harmonising taxation in the North Sea, and that agreements are made to spend the money on something that you think is important, namely public transport. What we know is that the Left does not think that either is important, either harmonisation or public transport, but it seems a broad majority in the Folketing, and that is why we have reached that agreement. It is, moreover, the same majority that, in another place in the tax system, namely about leasing cars, has made an agreement on better and cheaper public transport, which every year allows us to make investments. That is why, in the end, this is completely in line with current practice at Christiansborg and, moreover, with the government's precautionary principle. We don't spend a single crown that isn't there, but we like to make agreements to improve public transport in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131849	We have an enquirer, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131852	Well, I'm just gonna hang on to it, like, sir. Mads Rørvig also asks, because I assume that we agree that it was some other prerequisites that led to the agreement at the time of the conclusion of the agreement on oil prices. Today it is true that there has been a dramatic drop, almost more than a halving of oil prices, with resulting lower income. I assume the Minister agrees with me on that. So I would just like to ask precisely: when is the government intending to recalculate the Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128131923	Well the estimates of oil prices and their impact on the Danish economy are regularly included in the economic statements prepared in my ministry and which are the basis for this. Moreover, we have readily replied to questions from the Danish Parliament about the impact of oil prices on everything that has just been said. And it is true that the situation around oil prices has surprised most of the places, I think, but there are not clearly negative, there are also positive effects of low oil prices, also for the Danish Treasury and for Danish society. So there are swings and carousels. However, what is important to establish here is that we have an agreement with a number of parties which have structurally changed the tax system for the benefit of the Danish Treasury and allowed us to commit ourselves to electrifying large parts of the railway and creating an hourly model construction that allows you to transport more quickly between the major cities in Denmark. And that is what we have succeeded in doing. The Left never succeeded, perhaps because they were not willing to give priority to it, and that is the difference here. For the maneuver itself, there is nothing unusual in it, and we keep these things in our calculations of economic development in Denmark, of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132036	It is possible that there is nothing unusual in the method, but it is something unusual that the conditions for the agreement, as the Minister himself says, have changed dramatically. That is why I ask again: when are we going to recalculate the Train Fund DK? The Minister replied: Ongoing. The Minister recognizes here that there is a difference between the level of insight that would come at the time of the agreement and the level of understanding for the North Sea that is expected today with the low oil price. Does this mean, then, that if you want to recalculate the budget on an ongoing basis, that is how I understand the Minister, I do not know whether that is correct, otherwise the Minister will have to correct me on the Train Fund DK, that every year you will then decide on the difference between the assumption and the income expected when the agreement was concluded and the assumptions then applied, and then fill up through the Finance Act with the shortfall that might exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132131	I have clearly indicated that oil prices are included in our current economic statements, along with a large number of other factors. There is the answer to a lot of questions about the importance of oil prices to the Danish economy for almost all parameters, but it just has nothing to do with the Train Fund DK. With the agreement with a number of parties, DK is about 28.5 billion. kr. a commitment to ensure that we get electrified rail in Denmark, so that we get an hour model between the big cities, also for the benefit of the catchment area that leads to the sections. It does not depend on oil prices, volume of production or production costs. It's black and white in the deal. Therefore, what remains is just the lack of understanding that the Left will invest in public transport in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132215	Then Mr. Mads Rørvig question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132219	Yes, but it is quite interesting that you have committed yourself to spending 28.5 billion. kr., when what we can see today, as has also been written about in the press, and as wise men and others support, is that there is no kr. So the big question is: how will you fill up to the 28.5 billion? kr., sir. Minister? If the oil can't pay it, who's gonna pay it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132243	Well, it is clearly stated in the agreement that you handle it, just as you deal with all sorts of other things where it goes up and down. It is not the case that if, as a result of a major crisis, oil prices suddenly rise enormously, we will be putting out twice as many rail tracks; things are not so. A political agreement has been drawn up based on structural changes in the tax system, and I think that the questioner, as chairman of the Committee on Taxation today, should at least have had the courage to acknowledge that this is actually how things are done; one has to take the starting point of what estimates are there at the time of changing structures. And that's what we've been doing here. We are determined that this will be achieved; fortunately we are a broad majority in the Folketing. Unfortunately, then, the Left is not part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132321	Thank you. The next question is for the same minister and by Mr Beazley. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132328	The question is: what is the Minister's response to the criticism from Jens Hauch, deputy director of the Think Tank Kraka, who has criticised the government's financing of the Togfonden DK with oil revenue from the North Sea and said that it is ill-timed to base safe expenses on an earmarking of unsafe revenue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132346	Thank you for the question. This is, of course, the same criticism as the previous question, which is why there is, of course, a risk that the answer will sound familiar. Back in 2013, when we entered into the agreement on the harmonisation of taxation in the North Sea with Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten, we decided that we would deal with any deviations on an ongoing basis, and that is why it is not correct when the deputy director in Kraka describes the funding as uncertain. The train fund DK is 28.5 billion. kr., and the funding is fully secured in line with how fiscal initiatives are otherwise handled. So, like other planned public investment, it does not stand or fall with the development of oil prices; there will be no more or less an hour model, whether the price goes up or down, and that is why it is ultimately just about the political will: do you want to be in or do you not want to be in? The Left does not have the political will, but it has the government and a broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132437	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132438	Thank you. So we can see that it is not uncertain revenue when you can see a fluctuations in oil prices from about $110 to about $45 a few weeks later. That is what the government and the Minister consider not to be an uncertain income. It is, however, a point of view that I take up, but I do not agree with it. If that is correctly understood, as I also see it, there will be 28.5 billion, regardless of the price of oil. kr. In the case of the Train Fund DK, this must mean that the sources of revenue which are to generate the 28.5 billion. kr., then must also depend on how large the different sources of income may be. And when we agree that the price of oil obviously means something to the revenue that the state receives as part of the financing of the Train Fund DK, that is to say as part of the 28.5 billion. kr., it must also logically mean that if there is less income from oil, then there must be more income from other sources in order to reach the total amount of less than 28.5 billion. kr. I think the Minister can understand that, I think most people can understand that. That is why the simple question is on behalf of the criticism that has also come from Kraka when there is no longer the same expected income from oil and still insists on implementing the Train Fund DK and still insists that the 28.5 billion. kr. must be found, of course: where should the rest come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132558	Well, sir. After all, Jacob Jensen is more inquisitive than necessary, because you know how these things work. When you make structural changes, you calculate revenue and then you put it as the basis for political work. There are, of course, plenty of state revenue that varies every year: revenue from taxes, depending on whether people buy one or the other to a greater or lesser extent, income from taxes, depending on how they work with employment. Last year we ended up with an expected large surplus after really counting on a deficit, because there were some tax revenues that we had not taken into account. That's why these things change. But this does not change the fact that there was a majority in the Folketing that changed the taxation of North Sea activities so that we can have an hour model in Denmark. We are very happy about that, and we believe that the many commuters who will benefit from it as we roll it out will be very happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132648	I cannot quite understand why the Minister has so much difficulty in answering a relatively simple question. We can try to put it up in such a mathematical way: we have a condition that the government holds to, no matter what else comes from different sources of revenue that must be kr., including from the revenues from the North Sea. So far, so good. Then we find together that this is what I assume we agree that the price of oil has fallen and that there is therefore revenue from the North Sea. Of the 28.5 billion. kr. So there is now less revenue from the North Sea. So all other things must logically mean that alternative funding must be found. I would just like to ask: where are the alternative sources? They will be found in the Finance Act, it is possible, but there has to be a place where you can find the money so that you can live up to the promise you have made to keep a train fund of 28.5 billion. Despite the Minister's own words, the price of oil may be $110, $40, or something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132743	But this government does not use a penny that we do not have, and that is why it is clear from the agreement made on the Train Fund DK that, to the extent that there are fluctuations, it will be dealt with in current financial laws and within both expenditure ceilings and medium-term objectives. So what is left is that we are part of a broad majority that will all the things that lie in the Train Fund DK. Then there is the Left, which is why we must ask: is it the electrification from Roskilde to Kalundborg, which the Left does not think should be done anyway, or is it the speed upgrade from Køge Nord to Næstved? Where is it that the Left won't be in?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132821	There's a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132825	I believe that the crucial thing for the Left is that we do not spend money that we do not have, and it has been shown with the Train Fund DK that there is not the same money that was expected at the time. It may well be that the Minister insists on some calculation principles of structural fluctuations or some structural assessments, and that there may be some fluctuations in that, but the fact is that there are indications here with the oil price that a lower price than expected is something that has come to pass. No matter how many calculation principles you have, you always have to do the best try and make the best offer you have. If I know the Minister and the Minister's ministry right, you have a better offer than what is being made at the moment. It is quite convenient to push the recalculation of the Togfonden DK after an election, but does the Minister not think it would be appropriate to recalculate the funding behind the Togfonden DK now so that we could simply get an honest answer to how much money is missing and where we should find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128132918	We are constantly looking at oil prices, it is part of the economic statements and we are answering all the questions from the Folketing, but there is no reason to recalculate the Togfonden DK, because it is about our having a long-term investment plan, and we have to bear the costs at a later stage. By nature, we don't use a penny we don't have. But it is just the case that, unlike the broad majority in the Folketing, the Left will have to say: is it the Vejle-Struer speed upgrade? Is this the Esbjerg-Struer speed upgrade? Is that the Struer-Thisted upgrade? Is that Langå-Struer? Is that Hobro-Aalborg? Is this Herning-Holstebro? Where is it, sir? Mads Rørvig doesn't think we should upgrade, so the trains run faster, and what is he not willing to prioritise in the coming years? Those are the questions that remain. The rest of us agree that the money must be found and that, of course, we do not need a penny we do not have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133005	That's quite interesting, because the minister is standing here pussing out billions. Well, we need a lot of investment. That may sound reasonable, and of course we must electrify the railway, but what is unreasonable is that the Minister does not have the money for it. It is logical, then, that when the Minister decides to spend some money, he will also give a concrete answer to where the money is to be found. The Minister has not succeeded in doing so, although the precautionary principle and one and the other are always being looked up. It would suit the Minister to say where the money should come from, now, we know that the oil price is lower than when the Train DK was established.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133040	Of course, Mr. Mads Rørvig. Well, maybe you should tell them that in Roskilde, Kalundborg, Fredericia and Aalborg and on to Frederikshavn and between Vejle and Struer, who haven't seen anything about the electrification, as Mr. Mads Rørvig thinks is a matter of course. It comes and it comes because there is a majority in the Folketing that agrees on it and that has changed the tax system, so there is funding for it. That is the difference; that is the real political debate. Everything else is just smokescreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133108	Then Mr. Mr Jacob Jensen. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133111	Then I shall try to remove some of the smoke blur or at least allow the Minister to remove it by such a quite quiet question. We understand that there is not the same income as there has been in relation to the oil price and that the government must deal with the shortfall that then exists through the current financial laws. Can we infer from this that we are also working on an assessment that other taxes will then have to be raised in order to obtain the alternative funding that is now no longer coming from oil, or can we rule out a source of funding from new taxes or higher taxes in relation to the level we now have?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133145	As I have said on several occasions, it is quite clear in the agreement that it must be dealt with within the medium-term objectives that we have and the expenditure ceilings that have been set. But there is something else that is not clear, I think, for someone today. When you hear the Left's transport rapporteur take part in today's debate, it is quite clear that it is about road and not about lane. I think it was also the title of the book at the time, or something like that at least. That is why the bad news is that if the Left gets power, as one has observed, then we cannot count on electrified. Then there is electrified as much between Vejle and Struer, Aalborg and Frederikshavn, Fredericia and Aalborg and Roskilde and Kalundborg as there was the last 10 years of power, namely nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133223	The last question to the Minister has also been asked by Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133228	The question is: Will the Minister relate to the fact that Kraka's Deputy Director, Jens Hauch, calls them 19 billion? kr. is expected to come into the box if the current rate of increase in oil prices is the same as that used by the Government in the Train Fund DK, too high, as the calculation does not take into account that a lower oil price means a lower level of activity in the North Sea and thus even lower revenues?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133253	Well, let's finally stay a little close to the Train Foundation DK. We really welcome it, and this is about the link between investment and the wonderful development of the state's income from North Sea production. That is why I have to stress once again that there are 28.5 billion. kr. in Togfonden DK, for it has a broad majority in the Folketing agreed. And these 28.5 billion. kr. will depend neither on oil prices, on the volume of production nor on the cost of production. I would like to repeat the text of the agreement in which the parties have clearly committed themselves to the fact that any differences between the realised and the anticipated proceeds from the harmonisation of North Sea oil taxation will be dealt with in the context of the ongoing organisation of fiscal policy in accordance with medium-term fiscal objectives. In other words, what citizens can count on is that if that majority is intact, there will continue to be electrified, as we have now planned, because we are keen on that. We are determined to bind Denmark better together. We believe that this creates the basis for improved competitiveness and resulting growth. We constantly regret the fact that the Left was not willing to participate and that priority is always given to cross-roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133403	Then I would like to ask, in relation to the starting point of the question, whether the Minister agrees that a lower oil price would mean a lower level of activity in the North Sea and thus a lower level of income from it and by asking the question which also states: does the Minister agree with me that a lower oil price also means a lower share of the 28.5 billion? kr. So comes from the oil? Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133433	There can of course be no doubt, and it is also clear from the many answers given to the Folketing that lower oil prices give the state lower revenues from the North Sea. Well, that's it. And higher oil prices give the state higher income. It just has nothing to do with the Train Fund DK, because even if we had to see that oil prices suddenly went through the clouds as a result of a worldwide energy crisis it has been seen before we have no plans to set up twice as much ground for that reason. Therefore, this is basically a political issue, which is that the Left will not help to harmonise the taxation of North Sea oil and its income. It is incomprehensible to me because I think it is fair to make companies working in the same corner of the world extract oil in the same way. And you will not give priority to the costs of the Train Fund DK. I think that is a pity, not least for the many citizens who benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133523	That is the answer to the question as to whether the Minister agrees that a lower oil price will also mean less revenue. Well, that's good, because then we'll agree so far. That it doesn't matter to the 28.5 billion. kr. In general terms, it is an expression of the priorities chosen by the government. But it does matter how the priorities take place, and when there is less revenue, that is the way it is, I think it was said; it is another radical who has said the second, it also means finding alternative sources of income, and that is just what we are asking for. I have just asked a few moments ago: can we expect to work with higher taxes to find an alternative source of income, or can we rule out that higher taxes will be part of the solution to finding the difference that is now between what was previously expected of oil revenue and what is now expected of lower oil revenues?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133611	What you can count on with this government is, first of all, that we don't use a penny we don't have. That is our precautionary principle, and we have even managed to make that mood spread to the municipalities of the country too, which was not quite the case when the Left sat in the Ministry of Finance. In addition, we can be expected to have a firm objective that revenue and expenditure should be balanced by 2020. We have worked tirelessly on this, and that is where we have come to. That is, of course, the basis of our economic policy... [Sound Outlook]... what is sometimes done, namely that we take political initiatives that increase the state's revenue, such as: the harmonization of North Sea oil taxation. It then allows for some expenses that could not otherwise be incurred, and we have agreed this with a broad majority in the Folketing. There's nothing unusual about the maneuver.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133657	Then we have an enquirer, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133700	After all, it is very difficult to get the Minister to deal with the central issue. The minister says: We have decided to spend 28.5 billion. kr. If the money doesn't come in, as we agreed and looked up, we'll find it in another way. I just think the Minister owes it to say: what is that other way? For just as we dealt with the bill in its time, revenue fell by just under 4 billion by 2020. kr. In other words, just in time, from the time the government put forward the bill and until it was adopted, 4 billion disappeared. kr. of what was supposed to be funding. I just want to say: what capital or other expenditure is the government intending to postpone in its 2020 plan to ensure that the expenses that were expected to come in for money are incurred?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133751	Yes, that is what the agreement says, namely that we will decide on it on an ongoing basis if it proves necessary. However, what is of interest now that it is the Left's tax rapporteur who is reporting is whether this is an expression of a new principle, i.e. whether it is not the case that, in future, when you make tax policy in the Left, the calculations that are at the time you change the tax system will be used as the basis for what you want to finance, whether you want to reduce taxes or you want to pay new costs. That's why this ends, because I assume you're going to use the same principles. We have not changed the principles of what we have not changed the principles of how to calculate oil prices or oil income. The only thing that remains is that the Left tells us which of the railway fund projects will not come into being if you gain power. That's what's exciting. The rest of us agree that they will become something.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133838	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133839	But it's a confession case on the part of the minister. You agree to spend the money, and then you have to see where it comes from. If they don't come in one way, they'll probably come in the other way. In other words, it is really easy to make political agreements: we choose to spend a lot of money on some purpose we can agree on, and if the money does not come in one way, it will come in the other way. There is certainly not much precautionary principle about this, and it is quite evident that everyone is left with the view: now the government did this with the North Sea oil, and then a train fund came, and if the money does not come in one way, they will probably come in another way. After all, there's a billion bucks, and there's a threat in the future, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128133923	In fact, I think it is fabulous to hear the Left's tax rapporteur here. Now we have also had the chairman of the Committee on Taxation and the Left's financial rapporteur, but no one else is so zealously pursuing even a small remnant of 10 or 15 million. kr., which may be uncontaminated as a result of a change in the tax system that we have made. I know that from my time as tax minister. You could be followed by Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, who believed that there were 10 million. kr. in profits from some marginal change in the tax system, which one had the right to use. That is why it is quite extraordinary today to stand up and say that when you make a train fund and want to make public transport, you cannot rely on the estimates of revenue that are then. There's nothing unusual about it. Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen too well. The only thing you try to cover up is that you don't want to invest in track, either in Thisted or in Zealand, where the different questioners now come from. That is not what you want, it is an honest matter, but it is what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134011	Then Mr. Thomas Jensen the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134015	For the time being, I would like to correct the President: my name is Jacob Jensen. And I would like to correct the Minister: I am not a financial rapporteur, I am an economic and municipal rapporteur. But I don't want it to take us apart in any way. Aside from that, I just wanted to ask you a few moments ago whether you can expect some of this extra, new funding to come from higher taxes. We could not quite get an answer to that, and I choose to interpret it as saying that it has not been rejected, so it is possible that this lack of funds will then be taken from higher taxes. I should also like to ask whether the Minister can refuse to do so. Perhaps it is an area which the Minister knows better about, that you might also want to look into the municipal treasury, that is to say tighten the economy for the municipalities even further beyond the billion kroner you have already taken, compared to when you took over power, so that more money from the bourgeois service will be able to finance this prestige project, which has apparently become almost a religion for the government with the Prime Minister in the lead: it must be carried out regardless of whether the prerequisites are completely removed. I ask: can the money be found elsewhere? Whether it should be higher taxes, we have not been able to get answers. I ask whether you can count on finding the money from, for example, the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134115	Well, the government has no plans to change the tax system. But I just want to make it clear once again that this is due to the fact that we harmonised the North Sea oil tax. This gave the revenue that was then used as the basis for the Train Fund DK, and it handles fluctuations in which it is dealt with by all other taxes that can be affected over time and go up and down. And there's nothing unusual about it. But what is clear today is that what we know for sure is that the Left will not electrify the railway, because we do not think we can afford it. I am pleased to be part of a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament, which is of a different opinion to the benefit and pleasure of the many commuters who come forward more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134155	Thank you to the Minister and to Mr. Jacob Jensen. Then it is the Minister for Justice who has to answer questions first from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134206	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's position on the documentary broadcast that was broadcast on TV on Thursday evening 22 January 2015 and that was about the expelled foreigners who break their entry ban and return to Denmark, and what will the Minister take of initiatives to prevent deportees coming back and to punish those who still do so harder?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134235	It is basically a completely grotesque situation that there are foreigners in Denmark who have been expelled and who have been given the clear message from Danish society that we do not want them to be here. Therefore, my outrage in relation to the people, their statements and their presence is just as great as that of most other Danes who have either seen the broadcast or heard it mentioned. What are we going to do about it? We will continue the efforts that are already under way, including ensuring better control at our borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134312-2	It would be very good if it were to have the desired effect. The Minister says that the efforts already under way will continue. It is of course a good thing that an effort is being made, but if you look at facts, and it may sometimes be very good, the situation is that in 2014 there were 476 people who were taken to have entered Denmark illegally after being expelled. That figure is the highest for many years, and it has been increasing over the years. Now that there is a social-democratic government sitting with the Radicals who have been responsible for some time, the good question is, I think, to the government: is it enough to continue the effort that has been made, which means that the figure for how many people have been taken has increased over the years? They're just the ones you've taken. In addition, there is a group of deported criminals who come back, but who nobody sees or hears about, other than that they may commit crime without the police being aware of it. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister believes that it is enough to continue the work so far. That is one question. The second question is about the penalties: does the Minister agree that it is unfortunate that you do not get the penalty that you are freed from, because you are released early when you are taken after being expelled from Denmark? It is the case that, as a foreigner, people are released and deported after half-time serving. Some might ask themselves: is it reasonable that we should be spared that time when we break the principle that was in order to be able to escape after half a time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134511	I would like to start by saying that the problem is real, because there are foreigners in Denmark who commit crime and who, on this basis, are expelled from Denmark and some of them return. It's indiscreet. But figures are a strange figure, because it is also the case that we show more foreigners than we did in the past. I assume that the Danish People's Party believes that this is positive, because of course it only happens if the basis is there. There is also much evidence to suggest that the police have improved in apprehending those concerned, which is, of course, among other things. Because this government has intensified its efforts to combat illegal residence in Denmark. So when you can see an increase, you will probably have to try, at least once in a while, to go a little deeper if the figures also indicate that we in the authority have become more skilled and that, overall, more are being shown. Those nuances are essential to get into the discussion. I have not said that the current effort is enough. That is why I have just put forward proposals to Parliament to strengthen the control we have at borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134616	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134617	I think we should agree that it is good every time an effort is made to avoid this problem. I just think that we can agree that, under the current government, there have been considerably more asylum seekers. That is something the government must recognise. That is the situation. There has been more than a doubling of the number of asylum seekers in this period. It also means that a number of those who have committed crime are exactly involved in this discussion. Many of those we are talking about here are, after all, some who have come to Denmark at some point as asylum seekers. That is why it is quite natural for more people to be expelled. That is why my question to the Minister is this: is it good enough to say that we are not doing more with regard to the punishment side, where it is also interesting to have those concerned served in their country of origin?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134709	Well, now a lot of things suddenly get mixed up in the discussion. It is true that in 2014 we have seen an increase in the number of asylum seekers. It is difficult, of course, if you look at the conditions in the rest of the world, to understand that it is the government's responsibility or the government's fault. In other words, when we have such a bloody conflict in Syria and Iraq because of the Islamic State and a number of areas of conflict elsewhere, it is no wonder that more asylum seekers are coming to Denmark. The UN estimates that we have the highest number of refugees since the period just after World War II. It also rubs off on conditions in Denmark. That is something we are then trying to address with some tightenings in the area of asylum. But it was just to clarify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134748	Then we have a co-questioner. It's sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134752	Thank you. Following on from what Mr. Peter Skaarup has referred to, and so, in addition to what the Minister has already replied to, there is, after all, a draft law put forward by the Minister, as the Minister also mentioned, I would like to know whether the government will be involved in the introduction of a more permanent and permanent border control system. For all other things being equal, it must be the case that if you have someone standing permanently at the border, it is also the case that you are able to catch more people who violate or want to violate an entry ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134823	I can answer that question very simply. Now that I have the task of being the Minister of Justice of the country right now, I have an extraordinary interest in knowing what is happening at the borders of the country. And I note that a great deal of the crime taking place in Denmark and occurring in Denmark is cross-border in its character, either directly because it is committed against people or because it is crossing the Danish border. That is why, of course, I would very much like to have more control over what is happening at our border crossings, and I would like our authorities to have as good tools as possible. We will then be able to discuss how best to achieve this goal, and that is where I believe that the use of new technology is useful; passport scanners at our airports so that we can free police resources from all travellers who come here for a valid purpose, for those who travel on the wrong passport or have committed document counterfeiting or are illegal immigrants, just as I believe in automatic license plate scanners by, for example, the Danish-German border. I think we need the technology. I think we need to introduce intelligent ways of controlling our border crossings, and I think that is much, much more important than setting up some stationary either customs officers or officers. Actually, I think the effect of the other is greater.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128134936	I think you have to be careful not to tell people that we can solve it with scanners and with some surveillance of license plates and the cars that come in. It can help make a difference, of course it can, and thus it is also positive. But it goes without saying that it is good if you have people standing at the border and we then give them a mandate to officials, police officers and/or customs officers to assess whether the car that is coming is one that you have to pull over and control. So, there I have to say that there, after all, I still have a lot of confidence in the people we train in Denmark and that there you may be better able to make an assessment on the basis of your experience than a scanner or anything else is capable of. So the question is still gone: can the Minister not see that everything else equals must be more likely to catch more people if you have a fixed and permanent border control, where the authorities are allowed to assess whether people should be dragged to the side? That is one part of the question. And the second part is: will the increased effort that the Minister is talking about mean that more resources will be provided in the form of more police officers and more customs officers?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135045	I think that perhaps Danish history is being written at this moment. Did I actually hear a prominent representative of the Danish People's Party say in the Chamber that you should not pretend to the Danes that there are easy solutions to cross-border crime? It is a piece of Danish history that is written, for that is what the Danish People's Party is travelling in. No matter what problem arises, you have a solution. It's not always thought through. Nor is it certain that it is feasible, but one is trying to instill in people the belief that you do this, the problems are solved. I believe that a small piece of Danish history is being written, and that is why I must agree with Mr Delors. Martin Henriksen. When it comes to cross-border crime, there are no easy solutions. There are no solutions that can stand alone. That is why the problem must be tackled from many quarters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135131	Then Mr. Peter Skaarup this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135137	I think there is a tendency for the Minister to speak out a little, so I would like to ask a very precise question which I also asked before but did not get an answer to. This is how it sounds: why are deportations being sentenced to punishment, and why is the rest of the sentence that should not be automatically served, not served if you break the rules on which half the penalty is imposed? Can the Minister just answer yes or no to that and tell us if there is anything to be done about the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135217	Now it is difficult to give a yes or no answer to a why question, because the questioner starts by asking why there is a penalty rebate. It is true that this applies to expelled foreigners, and it may seem incredibly strange. Why is it that foreigners who commit crime in Denmark are on parole at an early stage with the rest, and it is important that the very, very clear premise is that they should return to their home country? I've asked the same question, had the same wonder. It is to get them out of the Danish prisons, that is the very short answer. And it is also an essential element in this whole discussion, because we already have, I think, too many foreign servings in Danish prisons. They're taking up expensive prison places. I'd really rather have them home to their home country. I do not refuse to tighten up the penalties in this area, because if you have been expelled and returned, you have to be sanctioned, but we also have to consider whether we will fill our Danish prisons with foreigners who should not be here at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135312	Before we move on to the next question, I would like to point out that in the first place there are therefore two minutes of speaking time for the questioner and minister, then there is only 1⁄2 minutes. And the co-author starts with 1 minute and then 1⁄2 minute. Just for the record, because I think we're about to enforce it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135331	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135338	The next question that has been asked is this: what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that more convicted criminals in the country of origin are expelled and will the Minister be more forward-looking in concluding bilateral agreements with the most relevant countries on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135355	This is a very relevant issue, which is very much linked to what we have just discussed, because it goes without saying that we in Denmark must have a common interest that if you are a foreigner and come here and commit crime, you are quickly sent to serve in your own country. There is no reason why we as a foreigner should sit and fill a Danish prison place; I would much rather use our criminal services to also start the rehabilitation of Danish citizens which is necessary if we want to have less crime, fewer victims and fewer criminals in Denmark. It has to be said that something has happened in this area. I can tell you that in the years from 2010 to 2011, five foreign servings were transferred to serve in the country of origin, and this is after all during the period when Peter Skaarup has had a great deal of influence on the legal policy pursued, at least most, under the former government. Since 2012 and that's before my time, so it's not my merit... changing Social Democratic Justice Ministers have given priority to the effort, and since 2012 81 foreign servings have been transferred, and this is a fairly large increase. It is actually a very low starting point, it is a very low figure, but it is a great increase, and it is so good evidence of why it is good with a government other than the one that was in the past, if there are no examples of it, including from Mr Tugendhat. Peter Skaarup's side. Are we in the finish line? No, we're not. For example, in my view there are too many European citizens in Danish prisons, and that is why it is of course necessary for us to go further along the road where we can do our homework. In fact, I have just written to the new Commissioner myself and said that I think we need to move on in this field, including creating a practical technical group that can support the repatriation of more people across countries. So it's going in the right direction, but there's still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135554	Yes, there is a lot to be done, because what has happened under the current government is that there have been considerably more asylum seekers, that there have been significantly more travelling criminals doing crime in Denmark, and that means that there are a great many people in our prisons who could very well be sent to the country of origin they have and ensure that atonement takes place there. And the countries concerned are, after all, some countries with which we should actually be supposed to have reasonable cooperation; many of them are EU countries, they are Eastern European countries, so why it should be so difficult, I find it hard to understand. I think it is obvious that efforts are being stepped up to make more people serve in their country of origin. Indeed, it should be a requirement for those countries to accept their own citizens who come to Denmark and do crime. It is true that in 2014 30 foreigners were transferred to serve in the home country. Of course, it is fine that 30 have been sent out, but when you think about how much of the inmates are in Danish prisons and how many come back after being expelled and doing new crime... these figures are also increasing... what the minister says is not good enough. That is simply not good enough; it is too little and too little is happening on the part of the government. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he would like to strengthen the agreements in this area and create new agreements with the countries concerned so that more convicted foreigners in Denmark can serve their sentences in their country of origin. I would also like to ask whether the Minister will personally go into that effort by making an appointment with the ministers of the relevant countries in relation to these cases. on Romania, which is a large country in relation to crime, and it is about Lithuania, which is also a large country in relation to crime committed in Denmark. Will the Minister himself personally go into these matters and make sure that something is going to happen now?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135804	Now, as long as I am the Minister of Justice, I am personally committed to all the relationships I surround myself with, and that is quite a lot, and so am I here. There is no doubt that foreign servings must return to their homeland as quickly as possible. Here, too, there are some nuances which Peter Skaarup's favourite job is not always to take an interest in, but that is also true here. For example, it is the case that some countries' legal systems have rules whereby matters of home-country service must be tried in the courts, and this may take some time. It is also the case that part of the foreign servings we have in Danish prisons are sitting there for a very short time, so they cannot be returned at all. It does not alter the fact that those who are to be repatriated are to be repatriated. That is why, of course, it is important that, in addition to European cooperation, there is also close bilateral contact between the Ministry of Justice and the authorities of the countries concerned. This applies, for example, to countries such as Poland and Romania, and this is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128135904	It is true that there are rules in this area that have been created primarily in the European Union, and one of the rules is that you have to have six months or more of your prison sentence in order to be able to get home at all. What I would like to hear from the Minister is whether it is not an idea to change it and to make a bilateral agreement with the countries with which it is obvious to negotiate with Romania and Lithuania, and there are other countries that you could go along with so that we get beyond the fact that you have to have a sentence in really one year's imprisonment before you can be sent back to serve because you are not deported until half the time. It would be obvious to take this initiative now and here, and a very large group would be hit. It is the case that many of the burglars do not receive a sentence of 1⁄2 or 1 year in prison. I would therefore like to hear the Minister very clearly: will the Minister ensure that such bilateral agreements are made?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140005	It has to be said that a common European agreement is what we are going to do the longest. You always want to react quickly to things. This is important and we are constantly aware of what we can do more. But to break with the agreements we have reached at European level, I do not think that is the way forward, even here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140027	Then we have a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140029	Thank you. Now we'll see if we can write another Danish story. I think it's fine that the Minister of Justice, among other things. has written to the new Commissioner responsible in this area, but following on from what Mr. Peter Skaarup asked about, I would also like to know how regularly this is something that the Minister of Justice travels. For example, there are: have held meetings between the Danish Minister of Justice and the Ministers of Justice of other countries where these matters have been discussed? Is this something that runs exclusively through the EU system and at official level, or is it lifted up at ministerial level?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140109	So this is a strange séance we have right now. Does the Danish People's Party seriously believe that I, as the country's Minister of Justice, should stand and explain what conversations and meetings I have in all areas? Well, this is an important and priority area. I have been Minister of Justice for quite a short time and must be completely honest about what I have spent my main efforts on in European cooperation, which I have managed to enter into, and it is the fight against Syrians, it is the fight against radicalisation, and it is the fight against terrorism. I think that is clearly the right priority. I would also like to say that when we meet the Ministers of Justice right now, and we do so tomorrow in Riga, it is the fight against radicalisation, terrorism and the uncertainty associated with it that has our main priority and our first priority, and I think that is the right priority to have right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140205	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140206	Well, it is also important that this is the first priority and clearly a main priority, of course. But now the European Union is a great device that spends a lot of money, and that is why it might also be possible to think that sometimes they could spend time on other things. There is something I do not know what it is that holds the Minister of Justice back in relation to answering the question. Last time, I asked whether more officers and more customs officers were being added to the strengthening of border controls which the Minister of Justice and others from the government have mentioned. I don't think I got an answer to that. I ask whether it has been raised at ministerial level and discussed with the justice ministers of other countries. We should be able to answer that question relatively easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140249-2	It is the case that I have had the opportunity to take part in a Council meeting where we mainly discussed data security, we discussed the efforts in the area of asylum, among other things. the situation around the Mediterranean, and then terror and radicalisation. In addition, we have had a meeting of Ministers of Justice a few days after the attack in France, where I believe we made the absolutely correct and correct priorities and discussed our joint efforts against terrorism. We, as the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, are responsible for a great many things. This is an important area. There are other areas too. Therefore, Denmark is working hard to get more servings returned. That is why I have just written to the new Commissioner asking for more structured cooperation between the countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140338	Then Mr. Peter Skaarup this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140341	Unfortunately, I think that the Minister speaks a lot, but that too little action is being taken. That is why, both in this question and also in the question before, we have tried to get the Minister to give a concrete answer about the broadcast that was on TV 2 that showed up a lot of people in Denmark again, even though they have been expelled. In the light of common sense, it is not at all connected that one can be expelled from Denmark because one has really done something that we will not accept and yet come back. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister: what specific action will the Minister take to reverse the situation so that those who are expelled from Denmark actually get their punishment and come home and serve?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140431-2	But foreigners who have been expelled from Denmark should not be in Denmark, and if they return, we must do everything we can to find them; before they return, we should like to catch more at our border crossings. That is why I am hoping for broad support for the legislative proposal that we have just presented for reinforced border controls. And then my request will be that the authorities continue their good work, of course, so that we can do something about this. That is crucial, and it is important, and I believe that the answer to the question put by the questioner lies in continuing the intensified work that we already have in the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140507	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, who also has a question for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140516	Thank you to the Minister for answering questions. My question is this: will the Minister explain whether the Minister will initiate an investigation into the extent of harassment of Christian asylum seekers in the Danish asylum centres because of their religious beliefs, cf. the article in Jyllands-Posten on 23 January 2015 • Christian asylum seekers: We are threatened and harassed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140540	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140542	I think it must be absolutely obvious and obvious that you come to Denmark as an asylum seeker and have a need for protection, so you must of course be protected and taken care of when you are at a Danish asylum centre. I would therefore also like to say very clearly that any form of harassment at asylum centres, whether it be about sexuality, gender, ethnic background, religious beliefs, political conviction or something quite sixth, is totally unacceptable. And it is my clear expectation that both immigration authorities, the Red Cross and other operators will hit this thing hard. The absurdity of the fact that in one of the most peaceful countries in the world we can see that asylum seekers had to harass each other on Danish soil under our protection. Of course, we should not accept that. That is why I have also indicated, in consultation, that I have asked the Foreign Affairs Agency to contact the asylum centres of the country to ensure that the problems of harassment are, of course, brought to an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140649	Thank you. After all, the Minister and I share an opinion in this area, I understand, and I am extremely pleased about that. It is absolutely absurd that, for various reasons, people flee from strife in one's country of origin, but then continue the persecution of minorities when they come to Denmark simply because they do not belong to the same sexuality, religion or gender as oneself. After all, the Minister was kind enough to take part in a longer consultation a few weeks ago, when the Minister promised to examine this in a more informal context. Now that I have bothered the Minister in the Chamber today, it is because the Minister was very clear at the hearing that the extent was not known, there were very few examples brought to the market. Unfortunately, the article in Jyllands-Posten that I have written my question is another example of the fact that this harassment and persecution is increasing in scope and will only likely grow in the future. It is precisely for this reason that I believe that there is a need for us to get documentation into the political debate in order to deal with the issue, both in principle and in concrete terms. I believe, for example, that it should be the case that the people who are harassing others in the country's asylum centres are being moved. I believe that there must be economic consequences and possibly penalty consequences, where appropriate. I hope the Minister will agree with me on this, and that is precisely why I call on the Minister to set in motion his strong official capacity to carry out an official study of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140821	Many things can be investigated, but I think it might be better in the specific situation to act in relation to the problems that may be, that is to say, to have all asylum centres, all operators, keep an eye on it here, pay attention to the problem, tackle it when you experience it. I agree with the questioner that there is something fundamentally wrong with the fact that it is the person who is being molested that has to be moved away. Then you have to sanction some others, possibly isolate them if they can't figure out how to behave properly. I'm not so afraid of sanctions. We do not have so many sanctions in the case of asylum seekers, because unless there is a relatively violent crime, it is very difficult to expel refugees because they are given protection, even in relation to international conventions. However, I do not deny that there are some steps we can take in this direction, because it should be quite simple, in fact, that when you are an asylum seeker in Denmark, you must comply with the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128140919	My concern is that in the south of the border, in Germany, we are having a debate these weeks and days, when prominent German politicians are forced to propose simply to set up asylum centres for Christians and asylum centres for Muslims, because the degree of harassment has taken precedence and is a daily and major problem. I do not suppose that the Minister today is only a few weeks ago, after all, we had a consultative meeting and are able to inform Parliament of the degree of harassment, assault and other activities. But I hope, when the information is available, that it will of course be multiplied in the Folketing. My question is also, of course, due to the fact that the Minister has been very loud in his call to protect Danish Jews from harassment on the streets and straits and calls on the police to act. I think we owe it to the same way to protect Christian minorities in asylum centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141015	I believe that we owe it to everyone to protect whether they are in the minority or in the majority, against any kind of harassment, threats, assaults, abuse and other activities, acts that can molest. I would like to warn against taking out some religious groups and making it a special problem, because anyone harassed on the basis of his religion must enjoy our protection. This must be the case in a democracy. Then there may be groups in a very special situation, and I do not reject, if there is a small religious minority in an asylum centre, that they may then be in a particularly vulnerable situation. However, it is a responsibility of the operators who run the asylum centres to remedy any problems that may arise. I have heard of the situation in Germany. So I have not received any official indications that we should be in something comparable here in Denmark, but of course that does not change, even with some of the people who have appeared in public, that if you are at a Danish asylum centre, you should of course not be harassed or threatened or molested because you are a Christian or otherwise belong to another religious belief.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141130	The next question is by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141133	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141135	Yes, and not surprisingly, it is in the same vein: will the Minister explain whether the Minister thinks that enough is being done to ensure that asylum seekers are not harassed on the basis of religious beliefs in Danish asylum centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141148	It can be said that if there are asylum seekers who experience harassment over and over again, then not enough is being done. And if there are asylum seekers who experience and report to the Red Cross or others that they are subjected to harassment or threats, and there is no response, yes, not enough will be done. Can we be absolutely sure that there are people whose tolerance, inclusiveness and democratic conviction are so small that they cannot be able to behave properly towards others? Can we guarantee that this will never happen in the asylum centres? No, we may not be able to do that, but what we can at least do, and what I can do, is to make it clear that conditions in the asylum centres must be proper. And it is a responsibility for operators to react if you see that there are problems, for example. With religious harassment, that should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141232	Thank you, Minister. Of course, that is absolutely right when the Minister says that it does not matter what religion you have, that it is about preventing harassment. I agree with the Minister. When I mention the examples of Christian asylum seekers, this is due to the fact that only those who have been promoted in the daily press, and most often minorities, at least in the examples, have been brought to the market. The reaction that has been from the operators, often the Red Cross, is that one has said a little backwards: we help to assist and call the police. We'll do what we can. However, the harassment is quite serious, as some of the reports on what is going on show. My question is therefore: has the Minister made any specific action, in other words, in addition to making representations and making representations to the operators, that this is of course not accepted here? Has the government taken an initiative, provided funds, made the law enforcement authorities aware that they want their involvement, or has it simply confined itself to making representations to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141323	Well, it shows something about the challenge in Danish politics when a questioner from the Left says: Now that is what we know about, because it has been in the press. Well, we can't run a country on the basis of individual cases in the press. It cannot be that there are some groups in the asylum centres that we are more concerned with than others because a journalist has written about them. It must be the case that whether you are in the newspaper or not, whether you are a Christian or not, whether you have one or the other or the third skin colour, you must have a proper level of protection when you are at a Danish asylum centre. So I ask the questioner: have resources been added? You want us to run our police so that the Justice Minister calls the police and says, "Now you have 5 million." kr. to ensure that no Christian asylum seekers are persecuted in Denmark? That is not how we should operate the asylum system or the police. What we need to say is clear and clear: when you are an asylum seeker in Denmark, you have to be treated properly, Christian or not, and that is the responsibility of the operators.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141426	That was a long half minute. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141428	So, the Minister has just made himself an obvious candidate for the rhetorical trick of the DR Detector, because in the previous question I asked the Minister: why is it that we do not want to launch an in-depth study so that the Folketing can get to the bottom of the problem? That is precisely why I am obliged to ask the Minister on the basis of what has been brought to the market. I am not a politician, the Left is not a party that wants to conduct politics on a case-by-case basis. But since the Minister has done nothing more than the Minister has done so far, it is my limited opportunity to ask the Minister on that basis. I think this is an unfine form of argument which actually also distracts attention from the issue which is actually quite serious, namely that people in need come to Denmark and have protection and experience that their religious values mean that they have to put up with serious harassment and assault. I do not think the Minister can be aware of the debate at this level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141516	I would like to repeat what I have already said. It was not so long ago that we spent a whole consultation on the issue. As far as I can see, not much has changed since then in terms of the nature of the problem. It is quite obvious that when you are in Denmark and are an asylum seeker, you have to be careful and you have to be protected. It is unacceptable if there are asylum seekers who enjoy our protection and use it free space to harass others. Is that a problem that can be solved in this Chamber? We can discuss it here, but it is up to the individual asylum centre to take care of this issue. The best thing would be if the asylum seekers who are in Denmark behaved properly towards each other, towards Danish society. When it is not always possible, evidently, we need to ensure that operators and immigration authorities focus on this, and that is what I have asked them to have in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141610	The questioner ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141612	I thank you for your answer. I look forward to receiving a little more in-depth information in the Danish Parliament. Despite the rhetoric, it is basically my view that in this case, the Minister and the Parliament share the specific objective. And there is no doubt that we will be able to return once we have become wiser on the basis of the Minister's request. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141634	Thank you. The last question to the Minister for Justice is from Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141642	Thank you. When the Minister as Minister of Employment, specifically on 23 September 2012, replied to the newspaper Politiken that she would not speak on behalf of the government about the government's attitude to imposing a ban on buying sex, and instead referred to the Resort Minister, what is now, since the Minister himself has become Minister of Justice, the Minister's position on imposing a ban on the purchase of sex?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141712	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141714	It goes without saying that I, as Minister of Justice, would very much like to take part in discussions on prostitution, which I think is an important social issue. The government's attitude to imposing a ban on the purchase of sex remains the same as when I was given the question as Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141735	At the time, however, the Minister for Employment said: "You have to respect the fact that there is a distribution of resources when you are in a government. In other words, I am working on employment policy. Prostitution is Karen Hækkerup and Morten Bødskov's area. Then I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is because the Minister has also changed his attitude to criminalising the purchase of sex from when the Minister was the Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141804	I think we should try to distinguish between objectives and means in the debate on prostitution, because I think that our social position should be quite clear. In my view, prostitution is a major social problem. It can have very great human consequences, and I basically do not like the fact that people are for sale. That is why we must do what we can to counteract this, and, of course, not least where trafficking and trafficking are concerned. Of course, how best we get there must always be open to debate. The government has therefore chosen to listen to some of the concerns that the Criminal Code Council has had in this regard, and that is why we have taken the decisions that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141852	When I keep asking insistently, it is because, as I said earlier, the Minister was a social rapporteur, and I would like to read out a little to the Minister from a speech to the Social Democrats Congress in 2009, where the Minister explains precisely why a criminalisation should be introduced for the purchase of sex: I did not stand here in the Chair and recommended a yes if it was not because, through my time as our party's social rapporteur, I had talked to so many of these women. If it wasn't because I had been allowed to see their bruised bodies. If it wasn't because I'd met the foreign women. If it wasn't because I'd met those drug prostitutes at Vesterbro. When you meet them, when you talk to them, and when you see their fates, you can actually do nothing but make the choice that we will protect them at all costs. There is, of course, a very clear position; the Minister clearly expresses what she is in favour of, and she actually persuades the Socialists to vote in favour of criminalising the purchase of sex. I would like to know whether the Minister has changed his position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128141955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142000	Well, my answer remains the same. I believe that this is a social problem, and I have spent quite a lot of time, quite a lot of energy on this issue and are also deeply affected by some of the human fates I have seen; the consequences and consequences can be completely incalculable. That is why I continue to believe that we must do what we can to combat prostitution and the trafficking in human beings and the trafficking in human beings that exists in connection with it. I am always open to discussing the means to be used to achieve your objectives. What we have done on the part of the government, for example, is: to extend the reflection period of how long traded women can be in Denmark. We have stressed the possibility of seeking asylum for women who are trafficking in human beings if they need protection. We have ensured that we can stay in the country during the investigation and then a number of social initiatives have been launched. It is therefore from an overall assessment the tools that the government has assessed are the best, but the objective is absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142102	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142104	I am delighted because that has been said by the very same person who, in the past, mixed the three areas together. We like in the Left to divide it into three. There are the trades where there must be no doubt whatsoever that we must strike hard. Then there are those who are in prostitution for other reasons; that is, there may be social challenges or another problem is the primary problem. And then there is the third group that the Minister, as rapporteur, always chose to overlook, namely those who are in it of their own accord. So, of course, I am pleased that the Minister has clearly changed his position. For in the past they were merged, and a solution was provided; criminalising the purchase of sex was the solution to it. I'm glad. Then there is one last question I would like to ask the Minister about the fact that there has been a new report from Norway showing something other than what we have seen in the past. It describes that there has been a reduction in the prostitutes by criminalisation. When the Minister says that we must combat prostitution, will you look at that report and perhaps we hope that we will not consider criminalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142209	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142211	I shall be honest and say that I am not familiar with the report and therefore I do not wish to comment on it. However, I would like to repeat that I believe that prostitution is a serious social problem. I believe that this is a serious social problem. I believe that we owe it to those victims of prostitution and trafficking in human beings to provide them with the protection and assistance we can at all. I am always open to discussing the best means of achieving our objectives, and I am, of course, also in the field of prostitution. But the direction I think is indisputable: of course we must do what we can to have a country where people are not for sale and where there is not so much potential human consequences of the actions of others.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142249	Then we release the Minister of Justice. We shall now proceed to the Minister for Culture, who will have a question from Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142303	Yes, I have put a question to the Minister for Culture, who is puzzled that we have in Funen and that they also have in Jutland. It is about the fact that we have obtained an inventory from Odense Municipality, which according to TV 2/Fyn shows that there is a very large difference between how many state resources are allocated to cultural institutions in Copenhagen, Odense and Aarhus. This has resulted from the fact that we can see that Odense Municipality and Aarhus Municipality themselves have to co-finance their art academies and film workshops, while we can see that the corresponding Copenhagen institutions get so much support from the state that the municipality does not have to co-finance anything at all. So my question to the Minister is whether that distortion is reasonable and if not what the Minister will do to help change the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142356	One has to read one's question in the first place. But I'm gonna let mercy go for it. The Minister of Culture is responding.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142405	Thank you. The current distribution of state cultural resources between the capital and the rest of Denmark is often the result of Copenhagen being the capital and therefore having some special tasks. It is also often conditional on a historical situation at a time in our history of Denmark, so it cannot be said that this is the result of a particular government's policy as such. We have some national tasks in the capital, which means that the National Museum is here, that the State Museum of Art is here, that state higher education is linked to Copenhagen. We have among other things. The art education, the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, and I think it would be right, real sin and shame if the tradition that is in the house, the special building created for this purpose in 1754, were suddenly to be abolished, because we had to accommodate Odense or Aarhus with some contribution from it. So some things I would like to defend are here in Copenhagen. Then I have noted that Odense and Aarhus have found out that they also want a municipal art academy and have created one, and it is their full self-determination to do so, it is their priority to do so. But now that I'm dimensioning an education in here because it's state education, I also have to help finance a municipally organised education in Odense and Aarhus, which is covered by Copenhagen. The question may be asked whether this has been done, and especially when you look at the employment situation of the employees who are trained there. Finally, attention should be paid to the fact that there are no research obligations and dissemination obligations in the same way as there are at the Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen, in the two other municipal art courses, which are, moreover, excellent, it is not a criticism of them. As for the film workshops in Denmark, they are located on Funen, in Aarhus, in Viborg and in Copenhagen. We have made an effort in the film agreement circle to distribute the film workshops across the country, so that they are not just located in Copenhagen. The film workshop in Copenhagen was placed under the Danish Film Institute in the late 1990s, and this is why the workshop is fully funded by the Film Institute. Then I can come back with the next answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142618	Yes, that was not quite as clear an answer from the Minister as I had hoped. I fully agree that there is a history, but I also hope that the Minister will be involved in the development of things and, of course, a lot has also happened, including on the art scene, in the image training since the academy was set up. I hope that the Minister, and I would like to confirm this, will agree with me that it is good that we have a whole Denmark, that we ensure art and culture throughout Denmark. I have not mentioned anything about the need to dismantle well-functioning institutions in the capital city; I just ask in connection with a surprise to the Minister's willingness to look at how we can create a coherent Denmark, a whole Denmark, where cultural and artistic resources in particular are one of the things that can be brought together. At one time there were only universities in Copenhagen, but then it was found that it is good that the population is being trained, and that is why we now have a number of courses throughout the country. So much recognition for Aarhus and Odense that you also go in actively and work to have art academies and film workshops, and then it's just a question for the minister: Will the Minister acknowledge that there may be a bias and that we are actually missing out on very talent and that that is some of the things we want to bet on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142743	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142743-2	I do not recognise it in this context. I have been asked about two types of institution: visual arts education and the film workshops. I do not recognise that there is a distortion through them. I respect the fact that Odense and Aarhus choose to do a municipal education in the field of visual arts, that's fine, I don't have to worry about it. I just stress that the two institutions do not have the same obligations as the one in Copenhagen, which is why we cannot compare how much money it costs to train them. However, I would like to point out that they have become SU-eligible, and that is a recognition of the education as such and an important help for the municipality of Aarhus and Odense in that particular area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142825	Well then, I will catch the ball from the minister and ask if the Minister will be involved in a dialogue that if you give the same commitments • of course in dialogue with the academies now, they are also SU-deserved • then you could also recognise the talent that there are plenty of in Copenhagen, but which is also there in the rest of the country. So on the dissemination part and on the research part, if you could get it, I hear the Minister being positive about looking at it a little more differentiated than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142900	I can promise the Minister isn't. Because I think it is a problem on the principle that there are two visual arts courses, one in Odense and one in Aarhus, when you look at dimensioning and training, because we are training for unemployment. We have a dimension at the state academy, located in Copenhagen, which is fairly balanced according to what we think people can get to work on. That is why I hope that the two in Aarhus and Odense will do something special that makes you have a different type of labour market opportunity in front of you. This does not necessarily mean that you have to add research etc., but that you put in a special local profile that would meet some needs in the local area, which is slightly different from those coming out of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142947	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. Well, then, sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen a question to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128142957	Thank you for that, President. The question is: Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable that there are no OSH limits for ultrafine particles, so DSB legally exposes its employees to an extremely high amount of harmful and potentially carcinogenic • ultrafine diesel particles in double-deck vehicles on several regional lines?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143022	I assume that the questioner refers to the fact that DSB has just published a report on the exposure of DSB's employees to so-called ultrafine particles. I would like to start by stating that it is not, of course, fair for you to get sick from doing your job. Neither Denmark nor most other countries have limit values for ultrafine particles in dieselos, because so far there has not been sufficient scientific basis for setting such a limit value. However, the absence of a limit value does not mean that in this case the employer can legally expose his employees to harmful amounts of ultrafine particles from dieselos. It is, in fact, a fundamental principle of health and safety legislation that an employer must ensure that his work is planned and organised in such a way that it can be carried out in a safe and sound manner. There may be several solutions to the problem. It can, for example, be done. be technical solutions, but it can also be organisational measures, for example. change of mode of work, etc. etc. So it cannot be said that because there is no limit value for working conditions based on ultrafine diesel particles, the employer should not do anything. The employer has a clear obligation to ensure, even on his own initiative, that unnecessary effects from ultrafine particles are avoided in the working environment. The Danish Labour Inspectorate informs me that since 2012 there has been a close dialogue with DSB on the prevention of the problems, and on the basis of the report and the new knowledge on the matter that has emerged, the Danish Labour Inspectorate has now called DSB for a meeting to get a statement on how DSB intends to follow up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143204	Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143207	Thank you for your answer. According to the report by the Department of Public Health with the University of Copenhagen for DSB, the most vulnerable DSB employees are exposed to an average number of harmful particles of up to 150,000/cm3. It is about 30 times as much as in a typical office landscape. As early as spring 2013, a sample showed that the level of these particles was sky high in DSB's double-deck wagons, but despite this knowledge and DSB's subsequent initiatives, the concentration of the harmful particles is still very, very high. I would therefore like to ask the Minister on the basis of the answer here that the Labour Inspectorate will now take a meeting, whether the Minister, such as Minister and owner of DSB, will ensure that a company such as DSB does not neglect the problem of health risks with regard to the potentially carcinogenic particles.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143312	Now, sir. After all, Flemming Damgaard Larsen is an experienced transport policy, and he also knows that DSB has some material problems, and I believe that we have together done everything we could to ensure that there was as much rolling stock as possible, given the situation in which DSB is in. This has given rise to these challenges, but, as I said in my initial answer, it is not the same as that nothing should be done about influencing staff. As I said, there is no limit value in this area in countries with which we usually compare ourselves, but that does not mean that nothing should happen. With the latest report we have now got a working tool to work on, and that is what was my main point in my first answer, namely that now the Labour Inspectorate will ask DSB for a meeting where DSB will indicate what action they intend to take in relation to the knowledge gained from the new report.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143403	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143405	We can see that the efforts made so far by DSB are not at all enough to secure employees against this high amount of harmful particles. The absence of a limit value on these particles can also well signal that the health risk of being exposed to a high concentration of these substances is not taken seriously by the company and thus the absence of a limit value can help slow down the process of reducing the extent of the potentially carcinogenic particles. It's not enough just to have a meeting. There is a real need for action, both to ensure the health of workers and also to ensure the health of passengers. That is why I would like to follow up on a question: if there are no these limit values in this area, does the Minister believe that the health of employees and also passengers should not be a high priority among the efforts to be made by DSB?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143508	Perhaps I should start by stating that it is not the case that there is an acute danger to anyone, either to staff or to passengers. When it is the case that there is no limit value in this area, it is because it is not so easy to create such a limit value. Denmark is not the only one to have a problem with. Other countries also do. However, I would like to stress that this does not mean that nothing should be done. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't take this seriously, and I have to say to Mr. Simpson. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, that I actually think the Factory Inspectorate does. Since 2012, we have been in dialogue with DSB. There has now been a report which, as I said in my initial reply, indicates a number of perhaps organisational ways of resolving this, and we will keep DSB firmly in mind that the possibilities that exist at all must be used because the health of passengers and staff is, of course, crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143557	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143559	It is only interesting that private truck drivers, private truck drivers, are forced to put particulate filters on their wagons, i.e. buses and lorries, while DSB is not obliged, in the same way, to impose particulate filters on locomotives. After all, it is striking when DSB is now state-owned that the state is going after the private hauliers alone and not its own. We have to note that it is for an unreasonable period of time that DSB's employees have gone to work with the certainty that they are exposed to this very high concentration, which is 30 times higher than in an ordinary office landscape. I would like to ask whether the Minister does not understand that employees are experiencing that their health is not being adequately taken into account when they still have to go to work with fear of their health.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143657	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen does not have a patent on wanting to protect employees or passengers. I would also like to say, and I think it is actually necessary to say that the Labour Inspectorate and also the DSB have taken this seriously. I think sir... Flemming Damgaard Larsen knows that there are no easy solutions to this. However, with the report we now have in hand, there is the possibility of being able to make a much more precise and clear effort, and that is what we are now discussing with DSB. I am just as concerned that there is health present, both working on the locomotive and with passengers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143735	I would like to thank the Minister for Employment and thank him. Flemming Damgaard Larsen for this question. It is the case that Questions 12 and 13 have been removed from today's agenda, so we move on to Question 14. It's for the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building, and it's by Mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143800	Thank you, Mr President. How can the government expect 28.5 billion in the light of the Minister's own information? kr. In addition, to finance the Togfonden DK, when the Minister himself admits that revenue is decreasing? The reason for the question is that the Minister himself has made an inventory showing that there has not even been a drop of extra oil out of the North Sea as a result of the latest tender round, and the Minister said on that basis in the Stock Exchange in November 2014: revenue has been decreasing for a period of time. I don't think there's so many new fields on the jump.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128143844	Thank you very much. The revenue for the Togfonden DK was originally calculated as the accumulated State additional revenue from the harmonisation of North Sea taxation. A framework of 28.5 billion has been set aside for this purpose. kr. for the payment of the Togfonden DK equivalent to the sum of the additional annual government receipts. I can also refer to the Minister for Finance's reply to the Committee on Transport's question 814 from June last year. Regardless of the length of the profile of the costs of the Train Fund DK and the additional revenue from the harmonization of North Sea taxation, 28.5 billion will continue to be allocated. kr. to Train Fund DK. As can be seen from the reply given by the Minister of Taxation to the Tax Committee's question 33 from November last year, any deviations between the assumed and the realised additional proceeds from the harmonisation of North Sea taxation will be dealt with in the context of the ongoing organisation of fiscal policy in accordance with medium-term fiscal objectives. In June 2014, the Danish Energy Agency published the report entitled "Danmarks Oil- og Gasproduktion 2013·." The report states that it is expected that oil and gas production in general will decrease, but that production levels will stabilise in 2016 and 2017, and stabilisation is mainly due to the start of production from the Hermit Field. Since the publication of the report, the production start of the Heron field has been postponed until 2017. This delay has been caused by delays in the construction of the production plant, but apart from this there are no significant changes in the expectations of Danish oil and gas production. There is still great potential for oil and gas extraction in the Danish part of the North Sea, and the government has therefore, together with the industry, launched work on a long-term oil and gas strategy to realise the potential.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144025	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144027	Thank you. It is somewhat worrying that the government will continually correct the funding. After all, the government has chosen to base its expectations of oil prices on the International Energy Agency, the IEA, which stands out by the fact that their long-term scenarios have a very different calculation than virtually everyone else. Indeed, they expect the price of oil to rise steadily. Therefore, I would actually like to ask the Minister to comment on the statement by Norwegian energy professor Ole Gunnar Austvik when he is one of those who says that it is not only possible to count on a steady rise in oil prices when it comes to funding projects. Does the Minister agree with that statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144125	Thank you. I am at least convinced that the price of oil is going to go up and down; I am also convinced that in the longer term we will see an oil price above the level we are seeing today, since a low oil price which today bears the seeds of a higher oil price later on. But the fact that we should be able to calculate and say precisely how price developments will be is, of course, a very difficult discipline.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144151	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144154	The Norwegian Energy Professor is not alone in criticizing the government's way of financing the Togfonden DK. For example: Jens Hauch, Deputy Director of the Think Tank Kraka, also criticized the government for the way in which the Togfonden DK is financed and stated that it is unfortunate to base secure expenditure on uncertain revenues. Can the government and the Minister not see any challenge in basing safe expenditure on uncertain revenue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144224	I am afraid that the issue is largely outside my remit, as I do not have much to do with the financing of the Danish Railway DK itself. But I can at least say that we are counting on oil to continue to exist and will continue to be picked up from the North Sea and that harmonization will also generate additional revenue in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144241	Then we have a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who has the floor now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144248	Thank you. I would like to turn the time back to March 1, 2013. There was then a large press conference in which the Prime Minister, the Transport Minister and the Prime Minister's predecessor in the office were present. And then the Minister's predecessor said this: it is a relatively cautious estimate that we are using here. We've been using the projections that we've been using all along, so it's not like we've calculated a huge increase that wasn't there before. We haven't spent the money until we get it. It is our hope that we can make the cake even bigger in the future. Would the current Minister for Climate and Energy have used those words if he knew what we know today, namely that oil prices have fallen dramatically and have left a huge gap in the Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144337	I shall not try retrospectively to imagine what I would have said at that time if I had had the same information available to me probably the same, but I do not know. On the other hand, I can say that the price of oil will not continue to be at the current level, and to start to take account of the fact that the oil price we are seeing now is the one that will be in force in the years to come, I think would be completely destructive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144407	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144408	Thank you. But perhaps I could ask whether there are plans for • I understand that it is the Danish Energy Agency which helps to calculate the official oil price that the state uses for its calculations, for example about the Danish DK Fund • to re-evaluate the price that is being applied now. For it is at least significantly above the real market price. The second question I would like to ask is whether it makes an impression on the Minister that former director of the Ministry of Taxation and former chairman of the North Sea Committee Otto Brøns-Petersen-Petersen has said the following: "If we had been asked to assess the sense of spending all the money on a Train Fund, I have no doubt that we had come to the conclusion that we would not recommend it. It's a bad idea to earmark taxes for specific purposes. It also increases the risk that so many billions will be spent so early on modernising the railway network before you know whether the money will actually come in in sufficient quantities. That's not wise. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144505	I am of the opinion that when we invest the additional revenue from the harmonisation of the North Sea in a collective good as decent railways, this is an excellent way of using a resource that we can only pull out of the North Sea once. This ensures that it is not only us but also our descendants and society as such who benefit from it. So in this way there is a part of the political assessment that has just been read out, which I disagree with in the affirmative. As I explained in my previous reply, I certainly believe that this money comes in. It is only a question of how many years they come in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144543	Then we go back to sir. Thomas Danielsen, who is the main questioner and gets the last question here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144548	Thank you. In other words, I am still unaware that we are insisting on implementing or deploying the Train Fund DK, as we can see at this stage that we are missing 18 billion. kr. to finance it. It's a huge amount of money. I would therefore like to ask why we are stubbornly sticking to the fact that we have to roll out the Togfonden DK when there is less revenue of 18 billion. kr., on the one hand, the consequences of this on the oil policy of the Minister. After all, the Minister says that he is sympathetic to the use of oil funds to finance public transport. It is also a sympathetic thought, but it has to have consequences when you can see that the means that should be obtained from it do not come into the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144632	Thank you. No, I'm afraid it's a mistake to say that there's going to be a shortage of 18 billion. This is due to the fact that the current oil price over the next 20 years is projected, which, as we know, is not the government's prerequisite for this. After all, the price of oil is such that when it can get down on the current rent from 130 dollars per annum. barrel, it can come back up, too. I think it would be very careless to consider that the current oil price will continue throughout the period set aside to fill up the Train Fund DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144701	I would like to thank the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building and thank Mr. Thomas Danielsen. We're done with Question No. 14. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It's for the Minister of Transport, and that's what Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144718	Thank you. The question is this: can the Minister guarantee that all parts of the Train Fund DK will be realized if it turns out that the funding of 28.5 billion? kr. In the case of extra taxation from the North Sea, will there not be anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144735	Thank you for the question. Yes, we in the government believe it is reasonable to spend up to 28.5 billion. kr. to an absolutely needed and historic modernisation of the railway in Denmark. Yes, we would like to guarantee that the Train Fund DK will become something. No doubt about it. I can see that a broad majority in this Parliament, unfortunately without the author's party, the Left, also thinks so. In September 2013, the government reached a broad political agreement that the additional proceeds from the harmonisation of tax revenue from North Sea oil should be devoted to modernising the railway for the maximum benefit to the Danes. With the payout agreement from January 2014 with SF, Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten, only 23.3 billion were initially allocated. kr. for investments in new rails and faster train connections. With investment, we can, among other things, do something about it. electrify the main sections, it's a good thing; realize the hour model, it's a good thing; build a new track for Billund, it's a good thing; give shorter travel time on most regional lines, it's a good thing; and increase the possibility of rail freight transport, it's a good thing. The Danish Railway DK is therefore of benefit to the whole country. It was also agreed that the funds should not be used at once. So there is a buffer of 25.2 billion. kr. This means that in 2024 the economic conditions behind the agreement will have to be reviewed; that is a good precautionary principle. In addition, the conciliation circle will be able to decide on an ongoing basis on the use of funds which may be returned to the Togfonden DK; there are large reserves attached to our projects. As an assurance that we will be fully involved in the projects in the Train Fund DK, it has been agreed that any differences between the realised and the anticipated additional revenue for the harmonisation of North Sea taxation will be dealt with in the context of the ongoing organisation of fiscal policy in accordance with the budget law and the medium-term fiscal objectives. It is, of course, no different from the fact that the state's budgets are always based on certain assumptions about future tax revenues; it is shown that this is a principle that all governments usually follow, including the former VK government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144955	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128144956	Thank you for your answer. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Transport on his 40th birthday today. We just invited the minister over here to make it a little extra festive. So it is good to see the Minister here in Parliament. I agree with the Minister that there are many good things in the Train Fund DK, there is no doubt about that, among other things. electrification is something we have to do in any case. But what we in the Left have chosen to focus on today is the gap that has arisen, of 18 billion. kr. of the 28 billion. kr., we can't just ignore that. We have then chosen to focus on that today. I would therefore like to follow it up by asking the Minister: will the Minister obtain the lack of funding from the Togfonden DK by dropping investment in the road network? be the planned motorway between Næstved and Rønnede that has come to last?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145048	Thank you so much for your congratulations. Thank you, too, for the opportunity to celebrate part of my birthday here in Parliament. There's nothing better than being in this place and talking about this project that I really think is important to Denmark. After all, I heard an interesting view from the Left Transport Policy rapporteur here, namely that the Left also supports electrification. We could then ask a small question, and that is: how does the Left intend to pay for the electrification of the railway network? After all, they are not in favour of our taxation of foreign oil companies in the North Sea, but what is the Liberals' proposal for this at least could we get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145126	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145127	Now, as I said, it is the Minister's birthday, and that is why we should perhaps make an exception, but it is the opposition in this Chamber who is asking, and not the Minister I understand, that you want to exchange it. We will be on target to provide sustainable funding for the electrification, for which the Minister can be calm. But I would like to ask a further question, because it is interesting about this gap that has arisen, namely what is the Minister's view that Dennis Flydtkjær of the Danish People's Party, one of the Conciliation Parties of the Togfonden DK, has said the following, and I quote: 'You cannot drop the agreement on the train fund, but we have to adjust the ambitions it gives itself. With a much lower oil price, we will get much less money in, and then we will either have to drop some of the projects, or we will have to find the money elsewhere. What are the Minister's comments on that remark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145222	This view has, of course, been addressed in the broad conciliation, which unfortunately was without the Left, and I am sorry. Because transport policy lasts a great many years in the future, and I regret that the Left is not there. But this thing's been taken care of. It is true that if, in 2024, when we make a mid-term review of the oil price situation, there is a lack of funding, a difference, then the parties, as I said in my first reply, have agreed and written down in the conciliation, that we meet around the table and find the remaining funding. But I think it is extremely exciting to hear that the Left says that we should be aiming for sustainable financing of the electrification of the Danish railway and that there will be nodded. So I'll interpret that as saying that there's a plan coming from the Left on this point. When's that plan coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145311	I've seen on the list that there's a co-questioner who's Mr. Knox. Troels Lund Poulsen, and it's his turn now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145318	Thank you. What the Minister has been discussing on several occasions is, of course, the whole question of the financing of the Train Fund DK, and that gives good reason today to ask the question which has also been put to other ministers, namely what is going to be done about the under-financing that is currently in place. There it is, among other things. The Danish People's Party, which has said that then you will have to look at the agreement you have made, not least in relation to, for example. The bridge over Vejle Fjord, which is a very, very expensive investment compared to what you get back. There is my trivial question, whether it is something that the Minister himself is concerned about or whether it is very important for the Minister that the Vejle Fjord Bridge should be implemented no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145359	I think that the Togfonden DK, that is, the timetable and the electrification, and it should also be quite clear that it is important for Denmark. It is clear that there is the question of the Vejle Fjord bridge, where I know this is an area where the questioner has his constituency, and it is quite natural that one is concerned about it. But the point is that it is 12 minutes out of the schedule, it is 12 minutes away from travel time, and if we then multiply it up and so on. and look at how long you have to sit on that train, then it is a completely fundamental part of the schedule and of the upgrading of our train operation. At the same time, the Vejle Fjord bridge, if you're going to have a good and sensible service of the new track for Billund, which I think is very good and up to the middle Jutland area, is a prerequisite for that, and that is why I am glad that this question has been taken care of, which I find interesting. Now, of course, it is a little difficult to get an answer from the Left, and I do not know whether the questioner can explain it here. The left disagrees with the Vejle Fjord Bridge, but they agree with the electrification. How are you going to pay for that part? We have not really received an answer to that from the Left. After all, this is a two-digit billion-dollar question to which no answer has been given.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145510	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145511	After all, it is not for me to be President of the Danish Parliament, and I am not able to be Minister it would require me to change party, and I have no intention of doing so, at least not today, and probably not in the future, but it is fortunately or unfortunately the case that I am asking the questions to the Minister and the Minister who has to answer them, so the Minister of Transport must arm himself with a little patience. And that is why I would just like to ask the Minister again whether it has become such a big thing for the government that you have to implement the Vejle Fjord bridge no matter what. After all, the minister has been out trying to be a little nuanced before, he has been out listening to some of the many neighbours who have been deeply worried, because it is a huge construction project and the money that has been set aside is probably not enough, and there is just what I trivially allow me to ask: when you now need 18 billion. kr. of the 28 billion. kr., could it not be an idea to look at whether you can implement everything or whether there are things you have to compromise with? Speaking of the 12 minutes, we have also discussed them in Danish politics before. The 12 minutes were then something else before the last elections, where all the problems could be solved in 12 minutes, but it turned out that this was not possible when the government was given power.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145617	In relation to the issue of the Vejle Fjord bridge, I think that the whole of the Togfonden DK is important and good for Denmark; I am in favour of finally getting rid of it, that we should have diesel trains in Denmark, which are impossible to buy, and we also have the IC4 scandal. It is sensible to have electrified, and it is sensible to reduce travel time by train between the parts of Denmark, and that is exactly what the Togfonden DK is all about, and there is therefore a prerequisite that you also build a bridge over Vejle Fjord, so that you can cut off 12 minutes compared to the journey time on the trains. There will be more capacity where it is also something to remind of S-train operations, i.e. operation every 20 minutes, in the Triangle area and all the way up to Aarhus. It is also something that will strengthen the travelers from Vejle's opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145702	Thank you, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen in this round, and then Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen as the main questioner the opportunity to come up with the last follow-up question for question 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145712	Thank you. Well, the 12 minutes seem to have such a magical connection to the current government, and so do they in this context. However, if we turn the time back to 1999, we have to say that the Socialists in particular have a primary responsibility for the fact that it was a acquisition of IC4 trains rather than a stake on electric trains, and that is why we are pleased to hear that the Minister is very much focused on electrification of the railway network. After all, it is not up to the Minister to ask the Left, but when the time comes, and when we have the money, the Left will ensure that this is implemented, and that is exactly what the difference is; you must have the money before you can use it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he believes that his predecessor in office, Pia Olsen Dyhr of the SF, correctly informed the people when she said that the Togfonden DK is a historic boost to the railways, without even referring to the uncertain financing that is now manifesting itself with a shortage of 18 billion. kr., which may mean that one must drop out a number of Togfonden DK's projects, raise taxes or drop some other infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145818	I think my predecessor, Pia Olsen Dyhr, handled this case very well, and it's her settlement that I'm working on and good for it. Well, it shouldn't be necessary to lecture the Left about it, but there was actually a time between 2001 and 2011, when there were some others on these benches, and they were some from the Left themselves. If you want to complain about the S-government not electrified in the 1990s, you can just check how many meters of electrification were made under the VK government and how many plans for Denmark were in relation to it. There were no plans for that. We have now made these plans into concrete policies by means of a specific conciliation procedure. If I then try to say that the Left has no plans to pay for that promise to electrify the Danish railway, then I am told that I must not ask that. Well, I think the voters out there are entitled to know if the Left actually stands and says you want to electrify, but you don't have a penny for it. Because is it not the case that the Left's traffic policy, in the headline, is that you promise no more than what is the money for now and here? I think that would be nice, but I guess that is not what we are used to from the Left in terms of transport policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145921	I thank the Minister and that is what was in Question No. 15. But we continue with the same questioner and the same minister, so I also give in relation to Question No. 16 the word to Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145934	Thank you, sir. President. The next question is this: can the Minister guarantee that the government will not cancel or postpone already agreed infrastructure projects or capital investment to find alternative funding for the Government's Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128145950-2	Thank you for the question, and thank you for being creative and formulating a little differently on the same theme. It's fine. The Government invests in the Togfonden DK because it is a good transport policy initiative. After all, the railways have a shared responsibility for decades, and I would like to take that on as a social democrat; I would like the Left Party to take it on board too, because they have also been in power while it happened in the railway sector in Denmark in relation to our neighbouring countries, which have already invested in high-speed trains, in electrification. And that's what the Train Foundation DK is all about: Significantly shorter travel times with time model and electrification, so that we do not have to go into such an IC4 nightmare again in the future. That is why I am very pleased that we have a broad conciliation circle. Unfortunately, the Left is not in it. We have a broad conciliation circle, which is behind this, and which, of course, has parties both to the right and to the left of the middle. We are behind the idea that it is sensible that we should now do so, that we should now invest in our Danish railway. The financing of the Train Fund DK has been mentioned in the past, but perhaps that is what one would like to have an answer to again. I don't want to repeat myself, but I'm going to make it a little shorter. First of all, the government and the conciliation board agreed with the train fund agreement in January 2014 that everything should not be translated at once. So there was a precautionary principle and a buffer of 5 billion. kr. Secondly, it has been agreed that it is possible to decide on an ongoing basis on the use of funds returned to the Togfonden DK, where there are large reserves, as I know the Left's traffic rapporteur also knows about large reserve amounts when we make large infrastructure investments. Thirdly, it has been agreed that a derogation may well be made between the amount realized and the anticipated additional revenue for the harmonisation of North Sea taxation will be handled in the context of the ongoing organisation of fiscal policy in accordance with the medium-term fiscal objectives as set out in the conciliation text.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150202	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150203	Yes, I can hear the Minister trying to minimize the fact that a gap of 18 billion has arisen. kr. It is a great deal of money, such a large amount that many people cannot grasp the scale of it. That's why we have to drill on how to handle that hole. It may be that there are some reserves and some buffers and so on, but it doesn't cover this hole. Then the Minister says that the Left will not do anything at all in the railway sector, that is the picture painted by the Minister and some colleagues here today. I must remind you that back in 2009, we set up an infrastructure fund of 95 billion. kr., and I guess it was to feel the money that existed. They were in the box. Of these we have spent far more than half on the railroad. So we have been happy to take part in the major investments in the rail sector, which will now benefit passengers in the years to come. We just don't go out there and spend the money until they're in the box. That's the difference. I have to ask the Minister if he agrees that what business is currently asking for, what they are begging for in order to create something more productivity in order to increase competitiveness, in order to create some new jobs, are better ways forward. This is being demanded right now by business and trade unions and all sorts of others. It's not big, fine train projects where you get some trains to drive a little faster than today, it's the roads you want. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150323	Now I'm getting a little confused. Just before we heard that the Left was very much in favour of electrifying our rail network. I was trying so hard to help give you the opportunity to say how you would find the money for it • a two-digit billion amount. I did not get an answer in any way, I think that was quite clear. But it is also fine if you do not want to answer it, because then people out there have to find out for themselves whether they think it is particularly credible. But now, apparently, it's just roads. I think it's a boat and... I think it is both rail and roads that are at stake. That's probably where there's the big difference. And then I went to the big negotiations with the VK government when we set aside the large amount of money. Let me just remind you that no, there were not 95 million. kr. In the box. That is something we can see every year in our Finance Act up to 2020. So at the time, what comes from the budget bill was also taken up on the assumption that there will be some tax revenue to pay it. So it was not money that was saved; it was money that would come in from now on. Therefore, the difference may not be so great compared to the Train Fund DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150418	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150419	I have to correct this: it was 75 billion rather than 95 million, as I think the Minister was saying. Don't worry about it. Everything's abandoned. After all, it's the Minister's birthday. But that electrification thing, as I said, we're gonna have to find out when we have the money in our hands. We are concerned that the track will be electrified, and we want to help clean up the mess that was made in 2009. We assume responsibility for the fact that we have been in trouble with IC4 in recent years, but they were bought, they were bought and ordered before we took over government power. And it was undoubtedly a heavy burden to be bothered with. But now we need to clean up, and that is a joint task. We agree on that. I would like to ask: in the event that the Minister now agrees that business is looking for better ways, what is the Minister's suggestion of how he will find funding to cover the gap of the 18 billion? kr., which is missing in Togfonden DK right now, without affecting already planned road investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150520	I think there were a little too many premises on that question for me to be able to refute them all. As I tried to say earlier, maybe it was a question that had been written in advance, so I think it's a both-and-a-boat. As I know the business community, it's also a boat and they're looking for. It is both faster trains, so the commuters, their employees can get back and forth; it is freight train upgrade, which is also located in Togfonden DK and in electrification, and which can provide better opportunities for production Denmark; and then it is also better roads and more infrastructure. That is why, I think, it is quite right from this government that we took the previous government's level of investment in infrastructure and then we made it bigger because we need to invest here in our country. That is why I am very, very pleased that we have made some progress in the transport agreements, of which the Left is certainly part.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150615	Then there's a co-questioner here too, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150620	Thank you. It has to be a very short question, and it is simply a question of whether the Minister can guarantee that the lack of funding from the Train Fund DK will not be taken from the road projects which also need to be given priority in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150638	We say quite openly that no one can know how oil prices will move forward. That is why we have laid the long-term oil price of the OECD Energy Agency as a prerequisite and say that this is what we are putting in. This is not something that we in the government have invented; it is the assessment of the OECD's independent energy agency. It is their assessment, which is then included in the calculation around the Train Fund DK. Is it so sure it's gonna be that way? No, it's not. What, then, do the parties do in the situation that oil prices do not increase as much as the OECD has provided? Yeah, well, then we've agreed to get together and find the rest of the funding. I have heard today that the Left is apparently in favour of electrification of the railway. It is, as far as I am aware, a two-digit billion amount that costs. I have not heard of any funding, but the Left can then consider with itself which road projects will then be cancelled in order to afford the financing of electrification. Because I think it is also the case that the Left wants to stop spending and does not want to spend more money, and that means that there too it must be said that you only have the money that you now have to invest for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150754	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150755	Thank you for the many questions. Unfortunately, however, I have to say again to the Minister for Transport that I am not in a situation where I am a minister. Unfortunately, I am asking the questions and the Minister should answer them. Let's try it again. Do not give the impression at all that there is currently a shortage of 18 billion. kr.? After all, that is more than half of what the Train Fund DK is set to do, namely 28 billion. kr. It is probably very reasonable for the Folketing to take an interest in the economic basis, as there may be a likelihood that the current government will not survive the next parliamentary elections. I just have to say that I can then conclude that the current Minister for Transport is completely indifferent to the fact that oil prices have fallen dramatically. The only thing the current Minister of Transport can say is that I do not really know what needs to be done either, but we are following up some international forecasts. Is that really the level we've reached? For I think it is quite frightening that they say: The future must deal with the problems; I am sitting here, but I have not really anything to do with it; there must be some others who help me with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128150858	I've just read the VK government's proposal called "Sustainable Transport" - better infrastructure. This publication was published in 2008 and launched by Lars Løkke Rasmussen personally. It says: "The government will launch a Danish high-speed strategy for rail traffic between the major cities. We have also heard today that the Left guarantees support for electrification and there is no shadow of funding. There is no shadow of funding for the promises made by the Left, from the time they sat in government, about the hour model, about high-speed trains and today about electrification. There's no shadow of that. Then we have a government here which, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, has found funding via the North Sea oil, and this is mainly foreign oil companies. You're angry and angry about that. Suit yourself. This is a political disagreement. But the difference is that we have funding for a realistic upgrading of the railway, while there is no funding from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151000	Thank you, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen and goes back to the main questioner. It's sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151005	I understand that the Minister will bring the President of the Left into the debate here. It is true that the time model was mentioned in 2008 as a vision of shorter travel times, but at the same time we knew that it would be very expensive and difficult between Odense and Aarhus because of the geography that Denmark now has, and therefore we launched an analysis of the possibilities. On that analysis, the Left has concluded that it was too expensive in relation to the gains we would get, and therefore we have no promise that there will be exactly 1 hour of train driving between those cities. That's the difference between us and the government. Another difference, we can now look at the debate here, is that the government wants to spend money that has not yet come into the box, whereas the Left insists on the principle that the money must be there before we spend it, in other words that there must be sustainable funding. Finally, I would like to ask: is it because it is now election year that may come sometime in a few weeks' time that the government is so stubbornly holding onto rolling out the Togfonden DK, when it already knows that there is a shortage of 18 billion? kr. in finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151113	When we hold on to it, it's because we have a settlement on it. The Left says that you will not spend the money until you have it, and at the same time you say that electrification of the railway is very necessary, not least when we need to get the IC4 trains off the rails and replace them with some electrical equipment. Does this mean that the Left will not spend money on roads? I haven't heard. I think that is the opposite of what we are hearing from Mr Beazley. Pihl Lorentzen, when he goes around the countryside. There is no mention of the fact that it and that path are not affordable and that we must first have money for electrification of the railway. That could be fair and fine and good. Well, you'd know. But I think, to be honest, that this is the opposite of what we hear, namely that there is money for everything. Then that's what I think it doesn't add up. Just quick enough, I want to say something about the money we get from the Vejle Fjord bridge for rail investments there. Minimum price the number of travellers is actually lower than the minute price per. number of travelers we get on the motorway around Silkeborg. In other words, if it is sensible to make the motorway at Silkeborg, it is also sensible to make the Vejle Fjord bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151211	Thank you to the Minister for Transport and, of course, special thanks to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. In any case, we have finished Question 16 and both the Minister for Transport and Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. We'll move on to the tax minister. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 17, and the question to the Minister for Taxation has been asked by Mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151229	The question to the Minister for Taxation has been asked by Mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151230	Thank you for that, President. I will read my question in advance to the Minister for Taxation. Is the Minister confident that the Prime Minister was sent to the city with a wrong message when, during the launch of the Train Fund DK on 1 March 2013, she stood side by side with the Minister's predecessor in office, and when a journalist asked if the government did not violate its precautionary principle, he replied that "No, we do not. We can be absolutely sure of this, in view of the fact that there is currently a shortage of 18 billion. kr. in the financing of the Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151308	It is certainly a large number of questions about the Train Fund DK that we are going through today. It seems to be something of great interest. Until a very short time ago, there were no listeners in the Chamber. It has now arrived, and that is good enough, because otherwise we might think that we were speaking for the deaf. That is why, with this large number of questions, I must, of course, deplore the fact that I am going to repeat myself a few times, and perhaps I will also repeat a few of my fellow ministers. But let me begin by outlining the matter. The government has concluded an excellent agreement on better infrastructure in Denmark; a comprehensive plan that binds Denmark together. The train fund DK amounts to a total of 28.5 billion. kr. and contains public infrastructure investments up to the end of the 2020s. We financed the agreement with the revenue we expected from the harmonization of taxation on North Sea oil. It is an excellent tax agreement which ensures that all oil companies have equal conditions. We wrote explicitly into the political agreement that the Train Fund DK is 28.5 billion. kr., regardless of whether the proceeds from the agreement on the North Sea oil would turn out to be smaller or larger than expected. It also states that such deviations must be dealt with within the ongoing organisation of financial policy, in other words within the framework of the medium-term 2020 plans. In this way, the Togfonden DK does not differ from areas such as health care, primary school, growth packages which the Left knows about etc. This is all a priority within the medium-term framework on which we are constantly taking a stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151452	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151454	Thank you for that and thank you for the answer, which unfortunately was not an answer to my real question. I asked about the fact that the Prime Minister was sent to the city, where she answered no and said that there was no breach of the government's precautionary principle. This is despite the fact that it appears from the forecasts that half the funding that was actually expected will not be made available. In addition, it is also quoted from the launch of the Togfonden DK, namely that this is a very cautious estimate. That in itself shows you've completely missed the ball on this shot. The tax minister then informs us in his answer that the funding will only be found elsewhere. It might be that the Minister of Taxation would then inform us, given that at least it seems that less than half of his revenue is collected, where the other places are to be found funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151555	Now I thought that Thomas Danielsen would give me further opportunities to anticipate, and I will allow myself to do so. Because you have to remember that the 28.5 billion. kr., which is in Togfonden DK, is an amount to be invested over a long period of time, and the bill states that the cost corresponds to a permanent increase in annual expenditure of just under 400 million. kr. That's less than 1%. of the public investment that we carry out every year, and that represents only about a third of the annual lower income from a permanent housing job scheme, which I understand the Left is proposing. In addition, it should also be mentioned that we have set aside a reserve of 5 billion. kr. in the Train Fund DK, which is not committed before 2024. So although the Train Fund DK gives the infrastructure a massive boost, I must therefore disappoint the questioner and say that it is not something that can overturn a state budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151643	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151645	So, I feel a little uneasy about the tax minister reading out his answer to the question I have just asked orally. This shows a little that you are very sorry to answer the real question. I would like to ask the question again if the Minister then intends to reply to what I am actually asking, which is precisely about the fact that it has not been a very cautious estimate. Those whom the government leans on are precisely the only ones who believe in a steady rise in oil prices. Everyone else tells economists in the field of energy that this is not how oil prices will develop. That is why I would like to ask again, following on from the Minister's first reply: what are these areas that the government is now going to go in and reclassify funds from to finance the enormous deficit of the Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151734	With the 30 seconds I have, I can hardly answer both. But let me start with that with the estimate on the oil price, because it's the case that the estimate on this extra revenue is about. 28.5 billion kr. is based on the production assumptions in the Danish Energy Agency's Spring Review, which was made in 2013 and is also part of the financial statement from August 2013. The actual additional revenue is, of course, sensitive, it is clear, to subsequent and unforeseen changes in the underlying forecasts for production, for costs and for oil prices, etc. That is why a sensitivity calculation for fluctuations in oil prices made by the government and sent to the Folketing is also one which points to an increase in oil prices, for example. 1% in the period from 2014 to 2042 is estimated to result in an upward adjustment of the accumulated additional revenue of approximately 2%. Or the opposite. It is just to say that it is therefore a forecast based on a degree of uncertainty, but of course on the same basis as the previous government used.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151840	Then we'll give room for a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who has changed his role here. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151849	Thank you. Now it's a tax minister's sometimes a little unpopular lot to scratch money into the treasury. That is also the idea here in connection with the Train Fund DK: it has to be scratched 28.5 billion. kr. Into until 2042. It is so worked together that the money is spent until 2025, i.e. long before they are in the box. When the agreement on the Train Fund DK was concluded a year ago, it was assumed that there were 28.5 billion. kr. Something dramatic has happened since then, so that all calculations now show that there are only about 10 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. kr. Back up. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Taxation whether the government is planning to raise taxes in order to fill the gap that has arisen in connection with the financing of the Train Fund DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128151942	It's gotta hurt a train lover like sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, that you cannot be part of an agreement such as the Togfonden DK, which must of course be something for anyone who likes to drive trains as much as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen does so, including with the cities that the questioner has asked about. It must really hurt not to be allowed to be in such a big deal, so I understand that you are interested in it. The analysis that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen refers to, I suppose, the think tank Krakas, so let me say once and for all that there is no lack of money in the Togfonden DK. I know Kraka's analysis and I know that Kraka is raining in a different way than the ministries do. The difference in estimates between Krakas and the ministries is therefore due to two different calculations which are not directly comparable. The estimate of harmonization is based on standard assumptions for oil prices, dollar exchange rates, production etc., and the bases and behavioural changes in the future are thus calculated and partially estimated under uncertain assumptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152043	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152045	I did not really get a clear answer, but I can at least confirm to the tax minister that I love trains; some even call me a train nerd. But it is not true, however, that we are sorry that we were not included in the agreement, because we were actually offered to be included in the agreement. We said no nicely because it is contrary to our nature to spend money that has not come into the box, and that is what we are doing here. But my final question must be whether, to fill this big hole, the government is planning to drop some of the infrastructure projects initiated and planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152120	If I understand correctly, it seems that there has been little uncertainty as to whether the Left thought that these extra oil revenues should be collected at all. In any case, there has been uncertainty about what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen once said in a constitutional speech, including how it was interpreted by Mrs Inger Løbberg and later Mr. Kristian Jensen. However, there may be great differences within a Presidency in how to actually formulate a precise wording. It could certainly be interpreted in such a way that the Left did not think that there should be more money in the box, but instead thought that there should continue to be an inequality in relation to how to collect money from the North Sea oil.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152204	Then we have to give room to the main questioner, sir. Mr Thomas Danielsen, last question on Question No 4 by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 17.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152213	Unfortunately, this is the last question we could otherwise use many more. However, the Minister correctly stated that the forecasts made by the IEA International Energy Agency are leaning on. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister of Taxation if he can give the names of other economists who support this development forecast in relation to oil. For all the other economists we have at least been familiar with, it is quite unrealistic to have an oil price which is steadily rising and this has been warned against ever since the government launched the Togfonden DK. That is one question. Secondly, I would like the Minister to take a very short time to mention just a few examples of the areas which now need to be spared because they insist on implementing the Train Fund DK, despite the fact that more than half of the funding is missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152313	Firstly, I have to say that revenue from North Sea oil is calculated in the same way that governments have always calculated revenue from North Sea oil, so there is no change in that. Secondly, it has to be said that, when we make calculations in the convergence programme, we will look at whether there are any adjustments to be made. And we will do so in the same way as governments normally do. So it is not something that will lead to the black vision that the Left is obviously trying to whip up on a grey day like today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152350	That was the last answer to question 17. I think, however, that Question No 18 remains a little within the same theme. Question 18 has been asked, also to the tax minister, by Mr. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152403	The question is this: when the Minister has said that the low oil price is not a challenge for the financing of the Train Fund DK and that it should be corrected, does that mean that the government will make a check-up and correct the calculations behind the Train Fund DK with a new and more realistic forecast of oil prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152423	First of all, let me make it clear that the estimates used to calculate the additional revenue from the harmonisation of North Sea taxation were, of course, realistic and fair. As has also been said several times by the then Minister of Taxation in dealing with the changes in the legislation implementing the agreement on harmonisation, the calculations have been made on the basis of the oil prices used in the medium-term projections underlying the 2020 plans. These projections are based, inter alia, on: on the oil price assumptions prepared by the International Energy Agency. The assumptions of the Agency were also used in the medium-term projections under the previous government. Secondly, I would like to repeat that there is no lack of money for the Train Fund DK. The train fund DK is 28.5 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is clear from the agreement on the Togfonden DK that any deviations between the realised and the anticipated revenue from the harmonisation of North Sea taxation will be dealt with in the context of the ongoing organisation of fiscal policy in accordance with the medium-term fiscal objectives. We have therefore also replied to the Folketing that changed oil price assumptions may have an impact on overall fiscal opportunities, etc. towards 2020, but not for the size of the Train Fund DK, which is also reflected in the agreement. We follow closely, among other things. The development of oil prices, but it is not the case that every time something has changed, we go back and recalculate all the agreements that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152604	Sir. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152606	I recognise that the calculations, when the Togfonden DK was made on the basis of oil revenue, could perhaps have been correct, but something has happened in the meantime. The oil price is significantly lower than when the calculation was made in the first place, and it would in my optics be timely care if you just figured it out and saw that there is actually not the money that we assumed when we made the Togfonden DK. But I understand from the tax minister that no matter how much revenue comes from what we did, the train projects must be carried out. That then raises the question: where will we find the money now that we have found that the revenue from the oil fund will not be as we thought when it was made?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152657	I have given much thought to how to explain this with fiscal balance sheets in a way that is also understandable in the Confederal Group of the European United Left. I shall try to make an attempt: if, for a period of time, Danish consumers were to cut down sharply on their consumption, let us say beer, and there would therefore be far fewer excise duties and fewer VAT dollars, because people bought fewer beer, that is something that is dealt with in the fiscal balance sheets. It is of course no different from how to deal with it normally if there are differences in tax revenues. What we are doing is that we make at least once a year a fundamental assessment of the overall fiscal challenges. This is done in connection with the ongoing updates to the government's 2020 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152751	Sir. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152752	Yes, there is such a rhetorical rule of thumb that what cannot be explained cannot be defended, but the Minister did try. But the minister did not answer my question, because once the minister gets this figured out, it may be that the minister is not a minister at the time, but when someone does this calculation I think they will come to the conclusion that there is no 28.5 billion. kr. in oil revenue. That is what the wise men have said, as has Kraka. You will see that there is less money. The key question, then, is: where is the Minister going to find the money? Where's Mr. Knox? Benny Engelbrecht will find the money if he still wants to spend 28.5 billion. kr. on train projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152833	In fact, I find it very impressive that Mr. Mads Rørvig is able to predict the evolution of oil prices over the next 10 or 15 years. It is quite impressive in itself that one is able to speak so strongly about it. I don't think many people are capable of that. That is why it has to be said that what we are doing in relation to the political agreement that has been made is to follow exactly the same practice as other governments have done. That is why the calculations that are being made are, in fact, those that are being made in the context of the convergence programme. As I am sure the questioner is aware, it is the case that next time we will be presenting a convergence programme in April, and we will, of course, also include new oil prices and other conditions which mark an overall assessment of the fiscal challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152921	Then there's room for a co-questioner, and that's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128152925	I think it is brave that the Minister says it is impressive that Mr. Mads Rørvig knows how oil prices are developing over the next many years. I think that would be to take it, as sir. Mads Rørvig said, just far enough. But what is interesting is, of course, that the government dares to predict how the oil price will be, and on the basis of an estimate back in 2013 the advance chooses to spend the money. And the Minister is quite unhappy about saying: well, then they will probably come in one way or the other. The minister can just • he was certainly not minister at the time • remembering what happened when we dealt with the bill at the time. Because there was a new economic statement and because the government based a new oil price estimate, a gap of just under 4 billion was struck. kr. in revenue just until 2020. And that is where we were still, with an oil price of over $100 a year. barrel. Then I think it is impressive that the Minister says: yes, yes, but, well, that was our best offer. The fact that everything is going on, but that is something we have to do with medium-term projections and all sorts of other things. It is in good Danish another word for there to be a huge bill in front of it, and the government is icy about how it is picked up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153048	But it has to be said that the calculations that have been made are based on the very thorough analysis carried out in connection with the servicing, and they have been carried out on the basis of perfectly common accounting practices and common standard assumptions, which have also been worked on by previous governments. I do not really think it would make any sense to change the method used, because there is no indication that we could count more carefully whatever that means. It also makes much more sense to count consistently in the same way as previous governments have done, with the most realistic assumptions. Then it has to be said that if it is the case that the oil price should continue unchanged, yes, it would certainly be the first time in the history of the world that an oil price did not fluctuate over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153139	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153140	The Minister says that the government has put in the OECD Energy Agency's calculations as a prerequisite. Then I would like to hear from the Minister whether the government will then include a future assessment by the OECD Energy Agency, which will give a different estimate of the oil price in the future, because it will have to qualify the work of the Folketing. For instead of being stubbornly held on to the 28.5 billion. kr. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations for use in foodstuffs is an important step in the right direction. Then we can find out right away instead of waiting until 2024.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153231	As I have already replied to one of the previous questions, it is of course the case that each year, when revising the convergence programme, we look at exactly what the general economic challenge is, changes of a positive or negative nature, including, of course, what it means in relation to oil prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153254	Then we go back to the main questioner, who will have the last question in relation to Question No. 18. It's sir. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153259	I do not think we get many answers to the questions we ask. And the key is enough: Well, when we find out at some point,... well, the wise men have found out what Kraka has found out. When the government takes the trouble to figure it out again, you will find out that there is not the money that has been promised to the Danes. The Danes have been promised bridges and extra train sets. The railroad electrification has been promised. And all of this sounds very sympathetic. This corresponds roughly to the electoral programme on which the election was held together with the SF. But when it comes to funding, when it comes to the hard part, it becomes a difficult matter. And the Minister cannot explain today where he will find the money now that we have found out that they are not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153346	Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153351	Thank you, sir. President. But as I have explained quite many times, there are 28.5 billion. kr. in the Train Fund DK regardless of the evolution of oil prices. And whatever the tax revenue from the North Sea may be, it can be difficult to predict, and it certainly doesn't matter that it just doesn't affect the Train Fund DK. That's also why I've been trying to explain how to deal with these challenges, by the way. It does not really matter whether we are talking about North Sea revenue, revenue from beer or revenue from something quite seventh. Because the point is that revenue is fluctuating, and it has to be calculated in the context of convergence programmes. In some cases things will go up, and in others they will go down.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153438	Thank you, sir. Mads Rørvig and the Minister of Taxation in connection with Question No. 18. However, the Minister of Taxation must remain here for a while, for Question No. 19 is also for the tax minister. It's from sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153451	Thank you. And the question is: how can the Minister guarantee that all the initiatives of the Government's Train Fund DK will be implemented regardless of the fall in oil prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153504	I can say with some satisfaction that this is because the government has agreed to allocate 28.5 billion. kr. for public investment in infrastructure up to the end of the 2020s. It's really quite simple. And as I have also said before, lower oil prices will not in themselves change the size of the Togfonden DK. It must gradually be clear even for the Left. In the government, we will address the fiscal challenges and opportunities in connection with the update of the 2020 plan, and here we will also include new estimates of oil prices. This will take place in April, when the next convergence programme will be published. However, as I have also said, and it is not to be blunt, the Train Fund DK is not the biggest fiscal challenge we face. I note, moreover, that the Left did not want to be part of the agreement on the harmonisation of taxation in the North Sea, an agreement which ensures that all oil companies are subject to the same set of rules. I think that the Togfonden DK's investment in the hourly model and the electrification of the main rail network are some very good initiatives that help bind the country together, but I have to say that the Left would not participate in that agreement either, and that is actually a bit funny. Let me just read out a quote: the flagship in public transport will be the so-called hour model, which will allow trains between the major Danish cities in 1 hour or less. Thus wrote Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in a chronicle in 2008, but with the Left you can easily change your position without changing your mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153644	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153645	Thank you for that very polemical answer. It was very nonsensical, as it used to be from the tax minister. But is it really understood, in relation to the reply I have received from the Minister for Taxation, that the calculation will be speeded up in relation to the oil price?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153701	I have already given the exact answer to the part which is concerned with the convergence programme, and again it is not to be silly how we deal with these issues of recognition in the context of the convergence programme, and we will do so in April.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153715	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153716	But I assume the tax minister knows what I've got from the tax minister's answer to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153722	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153724	As I have said, we are looking at the convergence programme every April to see if there is anything that needs to be re-calculated in relation to revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153739	Then we've reached the co-questioner, and that's sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153745	Thank you. Well, now we know that being arrogant or noisy is a relatively distant matter for the tax minister. Nevertheless, it could have a touch of feeling that way, when the tax minister said earlier that he would now explain it in the hope that even the Confederal Group of the Left could understand it so I think the words fell. I would just like to point out that when we ask these questions, it is because we are facing a very serious financing problem. We are asking on behalf of the Danish people, so I hope that the Minister will explain it so that the Danish people can understand it, rather than sneaking around. I would like to ask in particular whether it would not be very sensible for the government to fail to build some of the most expensive single elements of the Train Fund DK • for example a new bridge over Vejle Fjord • when it now seems that the Train Fund DK is underfunded with a total of 18 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153838	Now Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen quite well that the issue specifically concerns the area of the Ministry of Transport and, of course, has to be dealt with there. But when you make political agreements and political settlements, it is of course the case that you have to live up to them, but you also have a mutual influence on it. It is of course no different from the fact that, in a conciliation group, we have given each other a handshake to the allocation of 28.5 billion. kr., that is something that is dealt with within the conciliation circle and which is also included in the financial framework that is currently being worked on in the government's economic policy. So the actual question of specific investments in various infrastructure areas must be addressed by the questioner with the Minister for Transport. However, from the outset, it will of course be the case that if you have a political agreement, that is something that you also observe. That is at least how I remember it from the time I worked actively in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and something that all transport policyers are very concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153950	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128153951	Yes, yes, but now, as far as I heard, it was the tax minister himself who, in his initial reply here, mentioned all the benefits you get out of the Train Fund DK, which is then not financed. But then I would like to ask in another way: does the Minister of Taxation not agree that if you suddenly lose a large income in a household economy at home in a family that you thought was going to get into the bank account, you have to adjust your plans and maybe cancel the holiday trip you had planned, or the purchase of a new couch, or what do I know? I guess that's the same with the country's national economy. If suddenly there is a huge gap in the funding you require, is it not necessary to adjust the plans in some way and not spend so much money or save them somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154040	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154041	Well, there's no doubt that the price of oil is low right now. It's obvious to anyone driving past a gas station. But that does not mean that we must stop thinking long-term. On the contrary, short-term fluctuations in financial markets should not dictate economic policy. In other words, we should not spend extra money when, for a period of time, oil prices are very high. After all, some people sometimes want to do so and so we should not reduce costs if oil prices are temporarily low. It would create instability. Most people agree that in the longer term oil prices will rise. How much we do not know, and that is why we usually use estimates from international organisations when defining these long-term oil prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154124	Then we return to the main questioner, sir. Mr Troels Lund Poulsen, who will have the last question in relation to Question No. 19.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154131	Thank you. It's not really a question. I would just like to sign for the reply in which the Minister of Taxation writes to me that there will be a recalculation of the oil price only in 2024, and say that I understand that so that we will be wiser in a very short space of time, in relation to the convergence programme. So I'd like to sign for that, I thought it was useful to know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154152	Well, you have to have a nose for the big economic fluctuations. It is quite true, as I said, that in relation to the specific railway fund, we are looking at it in 2024. Conversely, we are constantly looking at all the state's revenue in the context of the convergence programme. That is what it is like to have a government responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154214	We thank Troels Lund Poulsen. The question is closed. The tax minister stays here because even if we're done with Question No. 19, the Minister of Taxation must also answer Question No 19. 20, and that question is asked by Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154227	The question is: When the Social Democrats on their new website, www.resultsfordanmark.dk, writes that the 28.5 billion. kr. To the Government's Train Fund DK is financed by having the oil companies in the North Sea pay the same in tax terms, how does this relate to the Minister's statement that there is no direct dependence between oil revenue from the North Sea and the financing of the Government's Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154251	It's a good match. As I said earlier today, they came to 28.5 billion. kr. to the Train Fund DK from the Ministry's assessment of the revenue impact of the harmonization of tax rules in the North Sea. However, it is also clear from the agreement that any changes in the underlying assumptions must be dealt with within the framework of medium-term planning. It's normal practice. On page 5 of the agreement, it states that any deviations between the realised and assumed additional revenue from the harmonisation of North Sea taxation will be dealt with in the context of the ongoing organisation of fiscal policy in accordance with medium-term fiscal objectives. As I said, you have to remember the perspective. The railway fund DK represents a permanent additional cost of just under 400 million. kr. This corresponds to approx. One third of a permanent housing job scheme, which I understand the Left has proposed without really giving funding to it, and that is at the same time less than 1%. of annual public investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154400	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154402	But the challenge for the tax minister the other day was that when Kraka makes a review of the Togfonden DK, the expected revenue is not the 28.5 billion. kr., as one expects, but considerably less. I guess there's a gap of 18-19 billion. kr. We can just take what the Minister of Transport said in the Chamber earlier today, namely that it is the additional revenue from North Sea oil that goes to rail investment. The extra revenue from the North Sea oil goes to rail investment • Perhaps some of it. Because what the tax minister says is that it must then be found on the medium-term projections. It's just thought-provoking when the government says it has a precautionary principle. The conditions are moving and the prospects for revenue are falling dramatically. Just from the moment the government put forward the bill in 2013, and until we adopted it with the government's own oil price projections, 4 billion disappeared. kr. Just until 2020. I have asked the tax minister to update that figure in writing, and it will be much bigger. That is why it is too easy to say that you just find the money from the North Sea when you know that the money is not there. And then it is perfectly legitimate to ask where the money will come from. When the Minister says that well it does not mean much whether the oil fund and the North Sea oil give what it takes, because you spend the money anyway, then there is a lack of coherence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154544	Now Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen himself to Kraka, and I think it might be worth stating that the revenue effect of investment should be seen as a central estimate. This means that, in principle, there is as much probability that the effect will be greater as that it will be less than estimated. For example, the price of oil can be both higher and lower than the one used for the calculations. This is true, for example. Such things as technological development. It's hard to judge. It is also difficult to judge in advance the quantities that can be used. It is true that Kraka also highlights this uncertainty, but cannot rule out the fact that the proceeds will be greater or less than what the government has estimated. And as I understand it, Kraka also rains quite conservatively. They do not seem to expect any technological progress at all over the next few years, and the question is, of course, whether it is realistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154640	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154640-2	But it's running around for the minister. Because if we ask about the fact that the money does not come in via the North Sea as expected, the Minister says no, no, but there is no connection either. So when Social Democracy advertises faster trains and better trains for everyone in Denmark or low taxes for selected oil companies, it is not true, because it has no connection. And when the current Minister of Transport wrote that, firstly, we ask foreign oil companies to pay the same tax as Danish companies, that is only fair and that makes it possible to invest in public transport, then it was also a misunderstanding. Or when the Social Democracy in a press release back in September 2013 writes that the agreement increases state revenue by 28.5 billion. kr. towards 2040 and that the parties behind the agreement agree that the money should be spent on faster and green trains for the Danes, it is also wrong. It would only be liberating if the Minister of Taxation said that what the Social Democratic Party has said so far was just too fresh.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154737	But let's try to spell it out. What would have happened if this had happened, as the Left had wished, that no more money had been collected from the North Sea and that there had been no extra revenue? Would Denmark then have gone completely untouched by the fact that oil prices have fallen? No, then we still had to go in and correct in relation to falling oil revenue. So the consequence that one has to go in and take on some changes in oil prices must be taken in all cases. This is not necessarily linked to the fact that an adjustment has been made where there is a higher oil income overall, because a higher overall tax will have to be paid from the North Sea in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154829	Then we have a co-questioner. It's sir. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154834	It's all black talk, and the truth is that it's pretty banal, because the Danes have been promised traffic investment in trains for 28.5 billion. kr. In the meantime, the price of oil has fallen not only slightly but rather dramatically, and then the question arises: but if the Minister is still saying that the projects have to be implemented, where do we find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128154858	But it's absolutely true that it's black talk. This is about black oil, and it is absolutely as difficult to predict as it has always been. It was also when the Left sat in government, and therefore the same recalculations, the same approaches, the same adjustments to the convergence programme as always have to be made. But that doesn't change the way it was when the Left sat in the government that when you made a political agreement, it was the one that applied, and then it was an ongoing adjustment that had to be made. But again: if anyone could predict what the oil price was in 2020 and 2025 and 2030, then of course the situation would also be a great deal easier. None of us can do that, and that is why we have to assume that we use the same calculation methods and, in any case, follow the same adjustment model as has always been done. Anything else makes no sense at all, and if we were to allow the markets to control overall economic policy when things go a little downhill, we would also have to do so when it goes uphill and thus turn up investment. I don't think any responsible parties will be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155013	Sir. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155015	I am not the one who just happened to figure out what the price of oil will be. It is the wise men and other good forces who say that the government's prerequisites may be just a tooth for the optimistic side and that we may lack 18 billion. kr. I agree with the Minister that prices can go up and down, but for me it is just crucial that we do not spend the money until we have it. The truth is that the Minister has promised 28.5 billion. kr. Away, and it may be for sympathetic purposes, but I think it would suit the government that you secured that money before you started spending it. I was also hoping that this would be the lesson of the last election campaign, where, under the same conditions, a lot of billions of dollars could be added and two teachers in the primary school in each class and everything else, and we know what it has become.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155102	But the point is, in fact, the simple one: the calculation methods we use are exactly the same as all previous governments have used, and the approach we have in adjusting is the same as all previous governments have applied. When there is a political agreement, there is a political agreement. Then it's the one that applies. This has been the case in the time of all governments, as opposed to for example. The Left, which I can understand in this way, is ready to bring up money that you do not have, even this year in connection with, for example. promises on housing job schemes, which are, in parentheses, at least three times as large financial projections per year, compared to what the Togfonden DK is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155142	Then we go back to the main questioner, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, who has the last question on question 20.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155150	The Minister managed to say something that was true, namely that it is difficult to predict the price of oil. That is absolutely correct. But then it is incomprehensible that the government, which says it has a precautionary principle, should choose to increase the sensitivity of the state budget to fluctuations in oil prices, because that is what is happening here. That is when you say: we find some money through something that is very dependent on oil prices, and then we have to see what it gives, but we are still spending the money. This means that we are more under pressure on the Finance Act today when the oil price fluctuates than if you did not have the Train Fund DK. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Taxation has so established that there has been an increase in the dependence and sensitivity of the Finance Act in relation to fluctuations in oil prices, and we can then judge for ourselves whether this is an expression of due diligence and precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155246	But I can only say that what the Left wanted was that there was no more money in the box at all, that there was no more money in the box at all when the agreement on North Sea taxation was made. There has been a great deal of uncertainty as to what it really was that the Left meant at that time. It was evidently thought that tax concessions should be given both to the banks and to the oil companies, but that is what it is going to be. But the bottom line is that in all cases oil prices fluctuate. They go to the good side, they go to the bad side, and what is the point is that if you allow yourself to be run by the markets, you have to both turn up investment when things are going well, which is unhealthy, but also turn down investment when there are some temporary downs, and that is also wrong. Our financial and economic policy must have a direction and a line that does not change after some random fluctuations in the markets.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155339	That was the last of Question 20. We continue with question 21, and it is still gone both the tax minister and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155349-2	It says: How can the Minister claim that there is no direct dependence between oil revenue from the North Sea and the financing of the Government's Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155359	There may be some repetitions. As I said, I park this, and I replied to that at first, because there is no direct link between oil revenue from the North Sea and the Togfonden DK. The train fund DK is 28.5 billion. kr., it's politically agreed, and it's not really that much longer. The initial estimate for the additional revenue from the harmonization of the taxation of North Sea oil was 28.5 billion. kr., and the amount was reserved in accordance with the precautionary principle for better rail traffic for the benefit of all Danes, i.e. what we know as Togfonden DK. If oil income is less than originally assumed, it must be handled within the medium-term fiscal framework. The same shall apply if the proceeds are greater than provided. Therefore, the income from oil does not affect the Train Fund DK. In fact, there is good reason to decouple the Train Fund DK from the current fluctuations in oil prices, because if you want to implement major infrastructure projects, it requires long-term planning and a reasonably clear financial framework. That's why we agreed to the parties that signed the agreement to spend 28.5 billion. kr. to the Train Fund DK, regardless of how the assumptions underlying the estimate had to evolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155512	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155513	This then confirms that the reports I read from the current Minister for Transport I think he was at that time a political rapporteur should not be taken so seriously. The campaigns of social democracy and this kind of thing must obviously not be so concerned about, because there is not the context that has otherwise been tried to describe. Now, what also separates the tax minister and me is that the tax minister believes that if the oil price goes up, then you have to turn up the investment, but I know it is difficult for a social democrat to see that there is some money, without rushing over it and using it to ease off the debt and ensure that there is a little more robustness. But I understand why there is such a risk of having the Socialists sit close to the money box, because if suddenly there is more than expected, they must be spent, and if the money that you expect is not brought in, you will still be spending it. Well, that's kind of interesting. Now the tax minister mentions the sum of 400 million. kr., and that's the amount that needs to be paid. I just need to make sure I get it. The Minister of Taxation says that if an annual funding of 400 million was found. kr., one could finance Togfonden DK by other means. I would like to ask the Minister to confirm that this is how I understand the Minister's statement that this is 400 million annually. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155648	I would like to start by stating that it is actually quite misleading when Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen interprets my words as he did. It is precisely the case that we deal with the fiscal challenges in exactly the same way as the previous government did: if more revenue is to come in than originally provided, investment should not be increased, then it is that we have a defined economic policy, and similarly, if revenue is to be reduced periodically, they should not be reduced. That is, in fact, the whole point of oil revenue. Now, unfortunately, my speaking time has been exhausted, but just to make it quite clear: these are exactly the same principles that this government uses that previous governments have used and hopefully any future government will use.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155743	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155744	But the fluctuations in the state budget have been increased by linking North Sea money directly to expenditure. The Minister may find this rather difficult to reject, that is to say, that it is so. Now the cost of a fluctuating income has been taken into account. It's increasing the swings. It's as simple as that. The Minister will have to stand by that, and then the Minister for Finance will have to mess with it every year, and it will be enjoyable when you pick up that bill. I did not get an answer to my question about the 400 million. kr., as I understand the tax minister says is what needs to be done as alternative funding. I would like confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155825	That figure has been mentioned several times, and it is of course not least in order to relate it to the unfunded proposal by the Left, for example. the housing job scheme. But let me also return to the question of the oil fund and the increased oil revenue. Because it is quite right that more revenue has been put into the box, and that means that we can also afford to spend more. But the truth is that the Left did not want to see a higher oil income in the box, as I remember at least from then on, but Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen de- or confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155903	Then we go ahead with a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155908	I think it is a little important in this Parliament that we have sound principles for how we run the economy. When we were in government, we laid down some good principles for it, and it could also be seen in the government's constitution that the government took over those principles in the broadest sense. But I think it's a little sad that you're now going back into the campaign trail and spending a lot of money that you don't have. It has been promised 28.5 billion. kr. away, and now we can see that funding is crumbling. Is it due diligence, sir? Minister, just promising 28.5 billion. kr. Away when you can see that oil revenue doesn't come in without doing something and seeing if it could be that you had to turn down a little until you had more security for the income?
ParlaMint-DK_20150128155959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160001	It is quite true that we continued with the same method of calculation as the previous government used, and that is the whole point. It may have been a little difficult, I think, because the questioners understand it today. Now there have been quite a lot of questions in this area, and it has to be said that we have answered the same thing over and over again, i.e. that the way you calculate is also the way that previous governments have calculated, both when it comes to what the oil revenue would be, but also how you deal with the fluctuations that may be in the oil revenue, as always fluctuates, which always go up and down. It is very healthy to stick to that principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160039	Sir. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160040	There is also something called due diligence, sir. Minister, and if you can see that the price of oil has fallen not just a little, but very much, and that it seems to remain down there, should you not take stock of it and not just continue with blindfolds just beyond the abyss? And I'm not the only one who says that. We can see that when we refuel or we can listen to the wise men. There I think it would suit the government to review this train fund, just rain it through again with the current oil price level and say: it might well be that we should face up to the truth and then say that there is not the money we were expecting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160118	The point is, however, that we have in any case agreed with each other, that is to say the parties to the agreement, between how we deal with it on an ongoing basis. It is of course no different from what any other government would be obliged to do as long as such a majority exists. Nor is it any different, as I have already said, from the fact that we should not allow our financial policy to be dictated by market fluctuations of a shorter or longer duration, either when it goes to one side or when it goes to the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160155	We shall now come back to the main questioner on Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Twenty-one, who gets the last question. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160200	But the interesting thing about the tax minister's clear answer that it is 400 million. kr. Every year, and then the bill is paid, is that since there isn't this direct coupling anyway, it's just strange that the prerequisite for joining the Togfonden DK was that the money was found. And they could only be found in the North Sea. It was not a question of finding 400 million. kr. annual. It wasn't relevant to the government. The only way to achieve this would be to increase taxation in the North Sea. So it's kind of hard to say now that you could just have found 400 million. kr. Somewhere else, because the government wasn't concerned about that at all. But of course it's nice to know it's 400 million. kr., it's about. I think it may be in stark contrast to a note made by former tax minister Holger K. Nielsen when the same message was given by one of my colleagues from the Left, but we can entertain each other with that on another good occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160303	I just have to conclude that it has been quite fine that the Left has over time seemed to make a great plan for Denmark, to make the country stick together through this time model, which among other things. Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen advocated in 2008, while he was Minister of Finance. But when it came down to it and you had the opportunity, also to secure some extra revenue, you would not really want it, because it seems that that money was actually better in the pockets of the oil companies. And when it came to the coinage, it would not really be a part of it, unsaid for what reasons. I think it is a pity that we have these discussions, which are essentially about a party, a large opposition party, which is outside an agreement on infrastructure. It is unusual for the time we usually make such agreements widely, so that we ensure that in all cases there is agreement on how to implement major, important national agreements such as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160406	That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his work and thank him for his work. Torsten Schack Pedersen. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150128160416	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 29 January 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
