ParlaMint-DK_20151208130008	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Finn Sørensen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 50 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the temporary cessation of privatisation of care for the elderly). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130037	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130054	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130143	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130205	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF, KF and IA), against 7 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130240	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130301	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and IA) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130331	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130348	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and IA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130418	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130434	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (Alternative and Enhedslisten) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, KF and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (Enhedslisten), joined by a minority (Alternative and SF) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, KF and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (Enhedslisten og SF), joined by a minority (Alternative), and can be voted on. The vote is closed. in favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, KF and IA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 4-9, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. The amendments have been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130636	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130700	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (Unitslisten), joined by a minority (Alternative and SF) and can now be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 4 and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 5 to 9, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130811	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130849	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130923	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208130955	There's got to be a little quieter in the room. Thank you. If you want to make a statement, it's from up here. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131042	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131116	Is there anyone who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131136	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131149	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131211	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 1, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of IA) on Amendment No 1. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection approved Amendment No 2 by a majority (with the exception of IA) on Amendment No 2. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Amendment No 3 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of IA) on Amendment No 3. 9 and 10 outside the report by the Minister for Justice on Amendment No. 4 and 5 adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA) or on Amendment No 5. 11 and 12 outside the report by the Minister of Justice? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131308	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131338	The debate is open. It's first Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131405	Thank you. The Socialists can support the proposed bill, which aims to create a better framework for school provision in the smaller islands. Nor can it surprise anyone, since on 7 May 2015 a press release was published by the former Social Democratic Minister for Education and the former Social Democratic Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs, stating that the government in office at that time would make it easier for free primary schools on the mainland to set up branches on small islands. It must ensure better education provision in the country's 27 small island communities. That's what they wrote back then. The draft law can no doubt be described as a small legislative proposal, but it does not make it any less important for the people to whom the bill relates. The possibility of creating a school offer in cases where there is no municipal offer in the small islands is not only important for the island's children and young people and their parents; it is also crucial for the whole community and the development of the island, because school provision, especially for the smallest school children, is of great importance in maintaining and strengthening the settlement in the small islands. The bill opens up precisely that free basic schools on the mainland or on a larger island can create a school offer, also called a branch, on one of the 27 small islands, regardless of the number of pupils and the class level distribution in this school offer. It is sensible to provide municipalities with an alternative to moving all pupils to the mainland or to a larger island by enabling branches of free primary schools and thus the maintenance of a school offer in the small islands, while, of course, maintaining the obligation of the municipalities to provide citizens with an offer of free education in the primary school. As a Social Democrat, I am also pleased that the draft law is aware that there is no increased incentive for municipalities to close up primary schools in the small islands in order to bring the pupils together in a municipal offer on the mainland. Thus, according to the bill, the municipality of residence is required to pay contributions to the State at a rate of 100 per cent. instead of the ordinary 91 per cent. of the State's average operating grants and building grants for pupils in the free primary schools. I am also pleased to read that the government has no plans to change the current requirement for geographical and building units aimed at preventing the creation of branches. The sole purpose of the bill is to provide a better framework for school provision on the 27 concrete small islands and thus does not intend to change the general principles of governance and regulation for free schools and private primary schools. The fact that the establishment of a school offer on one of the mentioned small islands requires both the approval of the Minister and the agreement of the City Council of the municipality in which the small island is located, a good balance and democratic anchoring in the development of the island community, as well as the ability of the city councils in these well defined cases to provide operating subsidies for a school offer on a small island makes sense in a local democracy where politicians work to translate local political desires into reality. Finally, it is good to see that a special provision has been incorporated in the draft law in the light of consultation responses and the accompanying dialogue, so that there is a requirement for pupils in existing free schools of 24 pupils. All in all, the bill recognises that the small islands have special conditions and challenges to maintain school provision for the benefit of small islands' children and young people, and all in all, the bill responds to these challenges in a good way, and that is why we Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131838	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208131846	Thank you. The proposal has been made to ensure that there can continue to be a school at Fejø after the municipal school closed. In the Danish People's Party, we would like to make every effort to make the 27 small islands attractive to live on and especially to families with children. Children who grow up on a smaller island experience not only safe upbringing far away from crime and dangerous traffic; they also learn to play across age and gender, and they learn to be good at resolving conflicts, because you cannot just turn your back on and find others to play with. The quality of being able to be among people you feel very different from, as they get, is worth gold later in adulthood when they have to work with others. The schools in the small islands are a separate chapter. You don't see bullying, because the teachers mock it right away if there's a student who's miserable. And the teachers in the small islands have a great ability to teach differentially and also use the surroundings of the islands as part of the teaching. In the Danish People's Party, we know that when you close the school on the island, you also shut down the growth of families with children, and in the long term you will also help depopulated the island and we will not risk that. This bill is merely an improvement on the existing one, but I can understand the concerns that people in the islands have brought up to today: what if the private school at Fur runs with low student numbers for a number of years? Why does the municipality even have to approve it? And what if they stick a stick in the wheel for it? What if it goes badly for the school of which the island school is a branch, so it has to close? There are many concerns, and in the Danish People's Party we understand them all. But we also want to say that ensuring that there are good school offers in the small islands is so important to us in the Danish People's Party that we will go very, very far to succeed. Remember why we're standing here today? We do so because the alternative would be that schools could not be run on Fejø, in other words on the basis of previous legislation. So, one island gets caught up in the legislation, and here we are in the Danish Parliament, and we are making legislation about • doesn't it just say a little bit about how much political support there is for schools in the small islands? So to all of you on the islands I would say: Do not think that the support we are showing today would be less if it were your school that was suddenly threatened with closure. So we understand your concerns, and we also hope that you see our willingness to accommodate them. So, with deep respect for the possibility of future situations that we have not just solved in advance with this bill, we in the Danish People's Party can of course warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208132151	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208132200	Thank you. L 63, which we are discussing here today, is a draft law which makes changes for free schools and private primary schools etc., and of course the Left is voting in favour of them. I am very pleased that today we are able to present this bill, as the draft law will help to create a better framework for school provision in our 27 small islands, and precisely the possibility of school provision is one of the elements that can be incredibly important to ensure the development of local communities in the smaller islands. Decentralised educational provision is crucial both in the small islands, but also in many rural areas, and especially for the smaller children, it is appropriate that there are school offers on the islands so that they do not have to take a daily ferry ride to and from the island. This bill also provides an incentive for families with children to settle on the islands, and we know that children's families in particular are an important element in creating an active local community. Those of us who live in rural areas know that it is necessary to fight many battles in order to continue to ensure both life and light in the windows outside the big cities. We know that the laws and the rules which are sometimes adopted here in the Folketing can sometimes also help to limit these opportunities for development. The existing legislation on school provision in the Danish small islands has been another one of the many obstacles to rural development, and I know that there are many Danes who, like me, want to live in rural areas, but I also know that many people do not find that the framework is always in place in order to create life in rural areas. That is why I am very pleased that today we can help to remove another block of obstacles and thereby also make life easier on our small islands. With this bill, we are both creating a better framework for the free primary schools to now be able to establish new school offers in the small islands in cooperation with the various municipalities, and at the same time we are also creating a better framework for the maintenance of existing school opportunities in the small islands, and we are doing so by fixing the student number requirement for existing free schools on a small island to be at least 24 pupils against previously normally 32 pupils. At the same time, these schools do not have to meet the requirements relating, inter alia, to: the number of pupils at certain grade levels. This creates greater flexibility, and it reduces the concerns of these schools about fluctuations in the number of pupils, for example. decisive for a free school at Fur. The Left is pleased that today we are able to deal with this bill, thereby giving a hand to both the families of children and the communities of the islands, and we therefore hope that there will be even more people who will want to settle on the small islands. We are pleased that the bill strengthens rural areas and takes another step towards creating more growth and development throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208132544	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208132551	Thank you. In Enhedslisten we share the desire to ensure the possibility of running primary school in the smaller islands. It is important for the development of local communities that there is a good framework for running schools close to the homes of families with children. Long journey to and from school means far too long days for pupils, and it can be a decisive factor when parents have to choose whether to settle or remain on one of the smaller islands. On the other hand, it is our view that the proposal as it stands is in fact not the right solution for maintaining school provision in the smaller islands. We fully share the concern expressed by the Association of Danish Small Islands in their response to the hearing and in a subsequent approach to the Committee on Children and Education, namely that the present proposal will not promote the maintenance of school provision in the small islands but risks promoting the abandonment of school provision. Although the proposal will facilitate the establishment of private school provision in the islands, it could act as an incentive for municipalities to abolish existing public school provision. This lies in the whole of the proposed economic construction. Local authorities will probably have to pay more of the cost of private schools in the islands than private schools in any case, but the cost of a private school will in all likelihood be considerably lower than the cost of maintaining a local primary school on the island. Thus, in our view, the draft law will provide an economic incentive to abolish existing public school provision. Money can be saved and the municipalities will be able to point out to parents that they can take the initiative to create a free school branch if they think it is important to maintain a school offer on the island. The proposal, which was intended to maintain primary school provision in the small islands, is therefore in danger of having the very opposite effect, namely that it promotes the abandonment of school provision in the islands. It is also clear, and I would like to emphasise this, from the general remarks on the proposal that it should be arranged in such a way that, as a result of the legislative proposal, the municipalities are not encouraged to abolish primary school provision in the small islands, but that is precisely what we think is at risk with the proposal, as it is screwed up. If we really want to maintain schools in the smaller islands, we need to supplement this proposal by providing an economic incentive to maintain primary school provision in the islands. This can be done by granting an annual grant to the municipalities in the smaller islands where there is a primary school, and Enhedslisten will propose this in the further legislative process. As far as we have calculated the bill and our amendments are concerned, the cost to the state of such a proposal would be extremely modest, but the importance to the development of the small islands could, on the other hand, be quite great because the preservation of a local school can be absolutely crucial to the success of attracting and maintaining families for children on the islands. It will be essential for Enhedslisten's position on the overall proposal to include a provision for a special grant for primary school management. This will bring the proposal into better line with the stated intention of the bill, and I therefore hope that in the forthcoming negotiations we will be able to negotiate such a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208132931	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208132937	Thank you. I am actually well aware that the Enhedslisten usually, when we discuss these things as I hear it, is often against the free schools, and that it is thought that there should only be one school election, namely primary school. Could Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj maybe discuss why Enhedslisten doesn't think this could be a good solution? Because the bill here has just taken account of ensuring that the municipality has a higher cost, if it is to be noted that they choose to close a primary school and then set up a department instead. So that is the way this bill has secured what the rapporteur might otherwise be worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133028	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133031	There is no opposition in our amendment to the proposal as such. In other words, we think it might be sensible to soften up the opportunities for open school in the islands. However, as I have at least tried to express in my rapporteur's speech, with the economic construction that is here, there is the fact that a municipality which today runs primary school on an island and here there can be an expense of between 50,000 and 90,000 kroner. or something of the order of magnitude per year. If it closes a given primary school and then pays only a few and forty thousand kroner to a free school that replaces the primary school offer, it is given a financial incentive to close down the primary school offer. And we can say that the municipalities could never do that. But we know that the municipalities are looking for every penny they can save. That is why our proposal complements the existing proposal. There are both better opportunities for free schools, but the grant to the primary school prevents it from being used to abolish primary schools, so as to achieve the opposite of what you want, namely the closure of small schools in the small islands, rather than the promotion of school management in the small islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133145	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133148	Thank you. So what I hear the rapporteur say is that the Enhedslisten's amendment will show how much extra money the municipality has to add to a possible section of a free school on one of our small islands. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133209	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133212	It must be understood that we believe that, as in the case of the small islands, a special subsidy should be granted to the islands which run primary school on the island, that is to say, the State grants a further subsidy to the municipalities. In this way, there will be an economic incentive for the municipality to maintain the primary school offer, while with the proposal as it stands, we will provide an incentive for closing the school offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133238	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133246	L 63 is a small change which will solve the legislation which has limited the opportunities to run schools on the 27 small islands in Denmark. It is therefore a legislative proposal which clears up some restrictions that have been adopted in a distant past. It is always worth remembering, when we sit here in the Folketing and adopt restrictions, that this is something you have to live with for many years to come. Some of the legislation which includes: is in relation to running branches, schools, is after all a relic from the Trendloven. There was a school form with which there were a lot of problems. There were probably some good things too, but there were so many problems that legislation had to be quite restrictive. So we stand today and solve for a corner of that. I would like us to take a fundamental approach to resolving this legislation, because it is very sensible that good schools, that is to say schools which actually comply with school legislation and which have been sought by parents and which deliver a very good quality, can also be allowed to run a branch. In general, we have an anxiety in Denmark about commercialisation, also in relation to branches. It is feared that large groups will emerge, that some rich people will sit and become even richer by children's schooling. You shouldn't be afraid of that at all. No one gets rich at all from running primary school in Denmark. Amendment No L 63 here today makes perfect sense, but there is therefore a need for much more freedom, both for the primary schools and for the free primary schools. We in the Liberal Alliance want those who are good at something to have the opportunity to do more of what they are good at, because what we are most concerned about is that there are more children who have the opportunity to go to a good school, and that is what is the point of reference. That must be the purpose of the policy we are pursuing, and that is why we hope that the government sees this as a small test, a starting point in making something more fundamental, a liberation that allows good schools to also run branches and do more of what they are good at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133518	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nicolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133526	Thank you. The draft law, as we have already heard, must make the framework for making the free school offers for Denmark's 27 small islands even better. This is done by allowing free schools in the same municipality to set up a branch of up to two small islands. The alternative is very, very much in agreement with the intention of the proposal to improve the framework for creating free school provision in the small islands. If we are to support positive development and life in the small islands at all, school provision is an important piece. In the process leading up to the submission of this bill, the Minister has been very sensitive to the criticisms of the hearings and to the fact that the alternative was concerned about the lack of consideration in the original proposal for the only existing free school in one of the small islands, Fur Friskole. We would very much like to sign for that. We welcome the important changes that have been made to the draft law. The issue is that Fur Friskole has been reduced in number, so it is 24 pupils, and we see it as something important that it has been written into the law as a permanent derogation so that the citizens and the school at Fur can look forward with greater security. It has also become possible for branches to take up children who are not resident on the islands and this provides greater flexibility and a greater potential student base. The application deadline for the establishment of branches has been moved to reduce the risk of a year without a school offer when a public school is closed in one of the islands. However, it is also very important for us that the proposal should not under any circumstances be seen as an invitation to abolish existing public school provision, and that concern has also been very clear in the consultation responses. According to the proposal, the municipalities are required to pay 100 per cent. of the tariff per year; It has been criticised that it does not reflect the real cost level of running school provision on small islands. Therefore, it could be an economic saving for the municipality in relation to the maintenance of a municipal offer. We think that this should be kept in mind. As a starting point, then, in the alternative, we are confident that the municipalities want the best possible level of service for their citizens and not on the basis of less economic considerations such as this will put an end to well-functioning school provision in the islands. But, of course, we will keep a close eye on whether this should happen, which would, of course, be contrary to the intention of the law. We would therefore like to follow developments in this area closely and support the legislative proposal, which we believe contains many good points and has been through a good and constructive process up to the final submission. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133812	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it's Mrs. Marianne Jelved, Radical Left, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208133821	Thank you. Now the bill is being examined very well by the previous rapporteurs, so I will skip that at this stage, and I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his very great sensitivity to those people who have wanted to avert a situation where school offers disappear from the islands. This happens for many different reasons. It is, of course, the municipalities that are responsible for this in the first place and which close the small schools that are on the islands. I believe that everyone can understand how difficult it is for island communities to maintain the island residence when there are such decisions that result in school closing down. I think everyone can understand that it is a great deal that the youngest schoolchildren should be transported from the island to the school on the mainland and back again at the end of the day. These are laborious and not very good conditions for the youngest school pupils, the youngest children who are going to school. That is why we in the Radical Left are very pleased with the proposal. There may be a lot of things to do, as other rapporteurs have done, about whether this is the right way to work together, but we all have the opportunity to follow up on how things are going, and we can take it up regularly and exchange experiences to see if there are things that can be done differently. I have the feeling that this will be just as much a reminder to the municipalities that we should not always be in danger of closing the small schools as soon as possible, but instead we should consider maintaining the general school provision in the small islands in one way or another. Otherwise, we know that it is the free schools that are able to carry out this task, and I certainly believe that this can be done while the free schools retain the distinctive character of them. Therefore: Good luck with the proposal and a receipt to the Minister for a very fine legislative work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208134025	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208134032	Thank you. First of all, we would like to commend the Minister for a good process. We think it has been very engaging that has been listened to, and I think it has actually been a matter that has been running just as it should, so I would like to pay tribute for that. For the SF, the school is also a matter of heart. It has, as it were, been felt that it is too many parties. Schools tie small communities together. Schools create friendships and provide education for students, and schools near home create security. We have also been a little concerned about this problem with the fact that there is a concrete example of the fact that, for reasons of austerity, small schools are now being shut down in island communities. So we also think this is important. In SF we would like to contribute to maintaining offers on the various small islands. We understand that it is important both on small islands, but also in small communities in municipalities where very many schools are being closed down right now. However, we would prefer it to be a public school offer that is out there as a starting point. We do not do this on the basis of ideological considerations in a debate that can be held at all possible other times about free schools and primary schools. But we see it because we are afraid that with this exercise, the free schools will be forced to set up departments out there. We therefore share the concern of the Free School Teachers' Association, namely that public schools will be closed down, because there is a saving exercise in this, and we will encourage the opening of a free school. In other words, we are not opposed to free schools, but we are opposed to free schools being forced into existence. They must come as an educational alternative, and this will not be the case here, and I also read that the Free School Teachers Association itself is concerned about this. We are also concerned that this bill can actually encourage the closure of municipal primary schools in the small islands. If you have a very, very tight school budget, you will be able to sit and look at the bottom line and see that if you close the school and let it pass to a free school, then we may have to pay 100 per cent. in grants, but it's 100%. of a lower average price. So there will actually be an incentive to close them. We hope not, but the way the school department around here is under pressure... we keep discussing it... it's something we fear. So we have been thinking a little bit back and forth, because we think that the intentions are good, but we support the Enhedslisten's amendments, because we actually think that this is a better model. It would simply be a better model if the government, like it is currently giving other growth initiatives to keep out the outer communities, did so here by providing a small subsidy for the public schools in the small islands to stay open. It's gonna be a better model than this one that's potentially gonna be a saving exercise. So we will support this in the further examination process, and then we will wait for a position on the reading to see how that proposal, like it, is received.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208134328	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208134336	Thank you. The Danish islands are an important part of our culture and history, and we must of course do what we can to maintain the best possible conditions to ensure that they still have the framework for settlement. In fact, I think it has value in itself if life and development can be guaranteed throughout the country, including in the small islands. I come from Ærø myself, and there we actually currently have more immigrants than we have exodus. In fact, we have population growth. But I don't think it would have been that way if the children, for example. should go to school on the mainland. Because when schools close, small communities are also at risk of quietly closing down. The school is the cornerstone of many small communities, and the generations are quietly disappearing out of the areas if the schools close. Developments have meant that more and more citizens have the opportunity to work from home, and this may be the small islands' chance to create a future in which winding up is turned into development. I think that we should support everything we can to give them this opportunity to seize the opportunity. It is clear that if you as a family of children are considering living on some small island, it is of great importance what the possibility of going to school on the island is like. I think we should try to create the best conditions for our school-seeking children, including on the small islands, and that is why we support the intentions of this draft law, because it is a clear improvement on what we have today and the opportunities that exist today. For example: as proposed, to increase the contribution to be paid by the municipality of residence from 91 per cent. to 100 per cent, it is made more attractive to maintain free schools, establish free schools and more advantageous for the municipality to maintain the primary school offer than otherwise. It can be said that by increasing the contribution rate up to 100 per cent. We are making up a little for the additional costs that will certainly be incurred in maintaining the school offer on a small island in relation to the mainland. All in all, I believe that the intentions of the proposal are good, and with the proposal we can ensure that we can maintain more schools in the small islands than we could otherwise. It is already difficult to attract families of children to the small islands to settle, so I think we should do everything we can from here. We support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208134558	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it is the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208134614	Thank you for the many positive comments on the draft law, and also for the consultations we have had in the committees, up to the submission of the legislative proposal. After all, we have also made a number of adjustments to the legislative proposal in order to respond to the concerns that have been expressed and that there are also quite rightly on a number of islands, because they are in a dilemma: whether this can help to push a development or whether it can help to stop a development which we can see has been going on over a long period of time, in some places, and we can take Fejø as an example, a direct closure of a municipal public school offer. It is clear that there are some considerations which, of course, we must also take politically into account. When we put this bill forward by the government, it is because we want to support growth and development throughout the country. Rural areas are generally affected by the disappearance of many jobs and by the fact that many move from rural areas and also from the smaller islands to the larger cities. That is why it is important that we generally strengthen the framework for the development and settlement of our rural areas and our 27 small islands across the country. Part of supporting growth and development is also to ensure that there is a good framework for establishing school provision or to maintain school provision on the 27 small islands in Denmark. That is why the draft law will also provide a good framework for setting up branches for free schools in small islands where there is no longer a municipal offer. However, we will also ensure that existing free schools have a better framework to work under than those we have seen in the past. That is why we have responded to the request that has been made, among other things. from Fur, to look at that an island may be more affected by a fluctuating number of children due to the relocation and relocation, and that we there respond to the desire that we move from the existing requirement of 32 pupils to the 27 small islands to have a right to 24 pupils in free schools in the future. In this way we can maintain a school offer on the smaller islands, even if it may be difficult for some years to reach the age of children. After all, there is no doubt that this whole case took its starting point very much when the school at Fejø was closed and in the concern that in future one could not have a school offer. It was a work that was set in motion already under the previous government and which we can now, hopefully, with the support of the Chamber and the Danish Parliament, bring to an end, so that there is also an opportunity, in concrete terms, at Fejø, to create a school offer by setting up a branch for a free school on the mainland. It has been a wish of the Fejøforeningen, and it is a wish which we in the government would like to help meet, knowing that we can then look at the inquiries that have come from the other small islands, that there may be a concern that this proposal can help push a development that we already see across the country. There I think it is important to maintain that today, in principle, there is a hundred per cent incentive for the economy if we look closely at the closure of a municipal primary school offer on a small island. Today there is no alternative. Today there is no possibility of going in and setting up a branch of a free school on the islands. And that means that today we can actually reap if that is what we think, in other words, narrowly economically, the full savings. With this bill, we will ensure that in future we also have a better economic handle, by the fact that, on the part of the municipalities, they do not in this way have a narrow cash register in relation to the forward-looking school offer coverage in the small islands, by requiring them to have the full obligation to pay 100 per cent. of the state spending on a free school afterwards, where they can, of course, settle for less today. I have also listened to the concerns, but I think that, if we do nothing, we are even more helping to push a development that has certainly not been of benefit and benefit to the small islands or small local communities in the small islands in recent years. I therefore believe that, in many ways, the draft law must be said both to take account of those places where there is an existing free school, which we provide a freer framework, but still keep a strong eye on the fact that, of course, developments are also professionally strong, so that pupils at a free school at Fur do not get a worse school offer than they get elsewhere. That is why, of course, there is also a task for us all politically to ensure that, for the sake of the children, when we reduce the demand for the number of pupils, we also maintain the demands for the high level of professionalism. In addition, the bill opens up the possibility for the municipality to grant operating grants to a school offer on a small island, so that the individual municipality can choose whether to grant an additional municipal operating grant to a school offer in the small islands as a section of a free primary school. After all, this is also an initiative we are taking with the bill to help support the fact that even more local authorities can be involved in investing in good school provision on the 27 small islands that we have located across the country. There has also been a focus on both the consultation answers and the consultations and the dialogue we have had in the committees on when such a school could be approved, because if you had to wait until August the following year, there could be islands without a school offer for a longer period of time. We have tried to meet this with the bill by changing the general rules by notifying a branch on a small island much later than can be done under the rules applicable to free schools. After all, this is all something we have done to meet the concerns that are out there. We can never give a hundred per cent guarantee that all schools in the small islands will continue to exist. However, I think that with this bill we are taking a large number of initiatives that can support both existing schools in the small islands, but also that branches can be set up on some of the small islands that have lost their school provision in recent years. And I also hope that it will find the support of the parliamentary parties in such a form that we will not find ourselves in the situation that the good intentions end up putting a brake on the very concrete need they have both on Fejø and on Fur, so that a concrete solution can be found to the school problems that are on the two islands. Thank you for the courtesy of the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208135302	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208135318	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208135335	The bill we are discussing today is part of the government's agricultural growth package, and it is basically about giving farmers the opportunity to fertilise their land even more. The proposal has, of course, fallen into good soil in agriculture, where it will turn into a sounding coin at home on the individual farm. But every coin also has a backside, and although we in the Socialist Group fully agree that we must make an effort to create good and stable framework conditions for Danish farmers, we do not agree that this should happen without regard for the environment. From the first lines of the proposal, it appears that the proposal can put us at odds with our EU legal obligations. This applies to the nitrates directive, the water framework directive, the groundwater directive, the drinking water directive, the habitats directive and the marine strategy framework directive. The directives mentioned all share the view that they contribute to the protection of our environment. According to its purpose clause, the applicable law of fertilization has inter alia: for the purpose of regulating the use of manure by agriculture in order to limit the leaching of nitrogen. We in the Social Democratic Party continue to agree with that ambition. So, just as we are concerned about creating good conditions for Danish farmers, we are also working to ensure that agricultural growth is not at the expense of the environment. The Socialists stand for a balanced approach that invests both in the agricultural industry and in the environment that we must pass on to our children and grandchildren. This proposal gives the Minister for the Environment and Food the power to issue an unfamiliar environmental bill, since the Minister, through regulations, can determine how much farmers must fertilize their land by setting so-called nitrogen standards. Since 1998, we have been working on so-called reduced nitrogen standards which ensure that we comply with EU legislation in the field of environmental protection, i.e. environmentally conscious nitrogen standards. With the proposal here, the government is breaking this standard and a vote in favour of the bill allows the Minister to phase out the reduced nitrogen standards. In isolation, it will increase agricultural production and it will mean jobs in agriculture, in slaughterhouses and in those parts of Denmark where they are needed more than ever. We, as Social Democrats, are basically behind this, but we need to see some measures that ensure that we do not get at odds with the aforementioned EU directives. For us, it is essential that the environment is also taken into account and improved. At the same time, we are behind the desire for targeted regulation that can help to pick up the environmental bill. However, we stress that the government needs to launch initiatives to collect the increased nitrogen emissions, also in the short term, before we can support the legislative proposal. Such scenarios need to be clarified and assessed before we can make up our final position, and on that basis, the Socialists will postpone our final expression in relation to the bill here until we have seen how far the government's willingness to negotiate in the forthcoming negotiations on a food package for agriculture can bring us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208135720	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208135730	Thank you for that, President. Well, here we are with the proposal L 68, which is quite an interesting proposal. When you delve into the proposal, you can see that this is a fundamentally different way of thinking about regulation, and I would say with regard to what the Social Democrat rapporteur said, that we in the Danish People's Party share the concerns that may be. Those concerns are real enough. When you move from one regime to another, you also go out on unknown grounds as to what is going to happen in this regard. And it is very important that this be clarified before we deal with the third. How do we roll out this monitoring system that has been talked about so much? We need more than 100 new measuring stations to monitor our water bodies. How do we do it in the real world? What we must also look at here is that we are moving away from a system where there is uniform regulation throughout Denmark, and the question of the way we have regulated is: it has been a nuisance to agriculture, but has it really been the best for the environment? What is also authorised here is to look at what kind of water area is involved in the environmental area of which you as a farmer are part, and thereby to make an individual assessment of what environmental measures are to be taken in the area of which you are part and where you are doing your profession. That is why we are quite confident that you now go in and look at it more carefully in the future, instead of saying that the different areas in Denmark are the same, they are certainly not the same. There are places where there are very rich lands, and then there are other places where there are very sandy lands. Yet there is the same set of rules everywhere in Denmark. So, of course, we very much welcome the fact that you are now moving away from an easy system there is no doubt that it has been easy to regulate; you have had the same set of rules throughout Denmark and over to a new system, which of course will present some challenges on day one. It also says in the bill, and it should of course be borne in mind that you can do that, but what is important for the Danish People's Party is, of course, that you have a better basis for farmers to build their business on, that is to say, that they can create added value while, of course, you do not compromise on nature and the environment. Technological development has also moved dramatically, even when you look at how to deal with the environmental challenges that can be about to be an agricultural country like Denmark. Of course, we need to take advantage of this, and that is why the legislation should not be stationary either. We should not say that what we know we will not go away from. We also need to go further, so that we have the synergies that are possible, both for the industry and indeed for the environment. So the Danish People's Party is pleased that the bill comes and looks forward very much to the dialogue that should be in connection with the discussion in committee and for that matter also with the Minister and the Ministry on how we should roll out the new system. For this is, of course, a new road that we are going to take, but the Danish People's Party has no doubt that it is the right way out, and yes, there will also be rocks and bumps on the road; so it is when you move forward that there can also be challenges, and I am convinced that we can solve that, in harmony with both agriculture and nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140104	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140108	Thank you. On the Danish People's Party's website you can read about the party's environmental policy that the party is working to protect the water reserves from pollution from both agriculture and industry, so that in the future we can also drink clean and fresh water from the tap. Does it not Klinge a little hollow when experts warn that the bill we are discussing here today puts at risk drinking water interests where there are not yet compensatory measures in place to counteract the leaching that will happen when increasing the quantities of manure in agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140148	Compared to the first about what the Danish People's Party writes, we stand a hundred percent target for it. We are very much in agreement with it and we actually have that position, and we still have it away and that is why we write it. In fact, compared with the other, we believe that to make an individual environmental assessment, that is to say, to go out and say what it is necessary to do in these catchment areas, is much better in the sense that we also have the resources we have. Today you have exactly the same set of rules where you have the very sandy soils, i.e. where the leaching is greater, as on the dead soils, where the leaching is significantly less. We have exactly the same set of rules. There is no doubt about this, and you can see it when you read the proposal here that new tools will come into use. Many of them will, of course, be voluntary, where they are currently imposed, but it is not the case, even if we abolish the demand for peripheral zones, that the peripheral zones cannot still have a value. Aftercrops still have a value away, wet meadows still have a value away. After all, all these environmental measures still have a value and will also be able to be used in future where they help the environment and groundwater reserves.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140249	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140251	In the last issue of Danish Water resources, you can read a little about the status of what is the nitrate pollution we have of our groundwater. It says that about 40%. of the oxidized ground water wells contain more nitrate than the EU limit values. And then you can read that there were 129 boreholes in this GEUS study from last year, which had more nitrate than the limit values. I can look at the map, the illustration of the fact that the rapporteur's own municipality is affected by pollution. There is a single groundwater borehole where nitrate is above the limit value. Does the rapporteur not find it alarming that we already have problems with nitrate pollution and that there will then be an increase in the emissions of nitrate from agriculture, which could reduce our groundwater?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140343	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140344	Yeah, I kind of agree that it's a challenge. We need to protect our groundwater. It is fantastic that we can open the tap, and then we have nice fresh water in the tap; we must be able to keep it. What is really important is that you look at what is the sins of the past, what was behind it before, what you didn't know before, because we can do better today. There is no doubt that this is not a question of protecting groundwater. This is actually about looking at what kind of a natural type of activity is carried out in, that is to say, the agricultural industry, just as we do with all kinds of other industries. So it is said: what is it that the profession can assign to the surrounding society? In this case, it's the farmers. What can they assign to the surrounding society? And here it is the environment. So we are still fighting away for fewer of these closures, and some of them, unfortunately, are also due to the sins of the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140431	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140448	Thank you. In the context of the examination of Bill L 68 on the modification of the use of fertilisers in agriculture and on plant cover, the Left will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal. The proposal is part of the government's legal basis and is based on the 16-point plan. I am very pleased to be here today with this bill. Finally, we can start phasing out reduced nitrogen standards so that crops in the fields can instead be fertilised with the optimum amount of manure. Danish agriculture has long been forced to starve their crops, so to speak, and this has had very major consequences for the industry. The University of Copenhagen has estimated the economic impact of the previous fertilization rules to be between 1.3 and 1.8 billion. kr. a year. In other words, the current regulation has cost the food industry and agriculture, and thus the entire Danish society very dearly. With this bill, we are putting an end to the reduced nitrogen standards. We do so while ensuring compliance with the EU's legal obligations in relation to nature, surface water, groundwater and climate, and ensuring growth in balance with nature and the environment. It's green realism. This bill contributes significantly to ensuring agriculture and the industry a reasonable framework and an opportunity to increase the raw material base. The draft law allows for increased exports and benefits growth and employment, especially in rural areas. This will not only benefit the food and agriculture sector, but will benefit the whole of Denmark. In the Left, we are pleased that we are having this long-awaited bill before the House today. It is our clear view that we must continue to have a large and varied agricultural and food sector, and it is, of course, a prerequisite for farmers to be able to provide the crops in the fields with the necessary manure. It is quite grotesque that we have reached that point, that farmers are forced to starve crops in the fields. We must do this and, of course, in balance with the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140657	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140705	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen has stated to the Agricultural News that it is logical for him that farmers should be allowed to fertilise optimally and that he will not tolerate Danish farmers being subject to tougher demands than competitors in Europe. But Mr. Erling Bonnesen not that we have some special conditions in Denmark, that we as a farmer have to look at the whole, including that we are one of the world's most intensively cultivated countries, and that we drink our groundwater uncleaned? This puts some natural restrictions on us, and it may mean that we have to produce something quite different from cereals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140745	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140747	Thank you. It is nice to note that Enhedslisten notes that we still have clean, good Danish water in the taps. It is, of course, a Danish trademark, and we must take good care of that. Every country, of course, has its own special conditions. Denmark, too, and so has Germany, but it is also the case that we must have something to live on in the future, and I think that it is quite clear to everyone, regardless of how you deal with this bill, that Danish agriculture and hence the whole food sector is enormously challenged at the moment. That is why we are also faced with the fact that we simply have to decide whether we want to have an effective agricultural and food sector in Denmark and, therefore, also to maintain a great many jobs in the future. There is a clear 'yes' answer from us in the Left and, of course, it must be in balance with the environment. We have made this clear, and we must of course take advantage of the aids and technological developments that are also there, so we are working to achieve this in a higher unity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140840	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140843	There are a number of EU legal obligations that Denmark must comply with, and I do not think that this bill has been very thoroughly worked on. It is, of course, simply giving an authorisation for the Minister to allow agriculture to fertilise more. I think this proposal is completely unbalanced. I would like to know whether the rapporteur is not a little concerned about whether we can just comply with the three EU commitments that we have to comply with when we have something here that leads to stronger nitrogen pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140917	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140919	It is quite true that this draft law must authorise the Minister to begin the removal of under-fertilisation, and it cannot be the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten that there is a lot of discussion going on here in the Folketing, in the committee and so on. on how exactly to deal with the obligations to which the rapporteur refers. This is one of the things that future meetings will have to show, and the rapporteur will also come across this in committee and so on, so that we have to have things together in this way. This is, of course, a very usual parliamentary way of working. I do not think that the rapporteur is unaware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208140949	Thank you to the rapporteur. Well, actually, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141003	Thank you. The increase in pollution of our nature and the more liberal conditions for agriculture are rolling fast. Now we have seen that this Parliament has already dealt with the ploughing of the peripheral zones, which can give agriculture 1%. extra area and which may result in more nitrogen and spray poisons entering our aquatic environment. And now we have this proposal today to give the Minister the power to allow increased manure in agriculture. I think it is a pity that there is no balance between the interests of agriculture and those of nature. What, then, is the reason for the bill? Yes, I do not know whether this is due to a misunderstanding, but it is certainly a well-organized campaign in which leading agricultural policy circles and the government have likely spoken that we have a major problem with the grain grown in Denmark. But is it the nitrogen fertiliser for the grain that is the big problem? No, it's not. What is the problem is that agriculture chooses to grow the cereals which can yield the highest yield. And I think that we lack the evidence to make it quite clear in terms of professional clarity: can we both go for harvesting as much as possible while increasing the protein content of the grain? No, you can't. There is simply no professional evidence in this, so you build a lie, and then you allow agriculture to use more nitrogen. This will probably result in several kilos of grain being harvested, but this will not result in a higher protein content in all cereals. We produce grain in Denmark to have some pig feed. That is what governs our agriculture. We do not have an agriculture in Denmark that is based on quality crops, we have an agriculture that is based on quantities, and you think that just increasing the quantities is going better. I fully recognise that in Danish agriculture we have a crisis. First of all, it is an economic crisis. And then it helps to give agriculture 1%. More land to grow by ploughing the rim zones? Probably not. After all, it is not the best lands that are given back and that the farmer can take under the plough. Does this mean that the Minister is now being given the opportunity to allow the quantities of fertilisers to be increased and thus to come into conflict with various EU directives, which are in fact implemented in Danish law? I don't think so. It is something more fundamental that we need to change in agriculture. We're actually going another way. It is there that ecology in Denmark has shown that there is another way to produce, that there is another way to invest in quality, which also provides room for nature, which also takes care of the fact that there is a reasonable animal welfare. And that's the way we can go. After all, we can choose that all our EU subsidies will be more regulated in order to promote ecology and to promote respect for nature and the environment. I think it is really a pity that the Blue Block had 16 points formulated before the elections, which are based on some loose assertions. I really think that is a shame. It has been argued that Danish grain is not worth anything, that it is not of a quality, so you can bake or brew beer of it. But that's nonsense. It is a question, of course, that if you really want to make bread quality, you have to choose some other varieties. It is not just a matter of pouring as much nitrogen as possible into the field. I also think it is a pity that we do not go deeper into what is good agriculture. It is completely overlooked that a good crop rotation is, in such a way, the prerequisite for cultivating the soil for several years and making good use of it. Why was it that a family farm was previously attractive? Yes, it was because one had then cultivated the land and taken into account that the land might have to be handed over to the next generation. This is not the kind of thing that is in focus when you look at Danish agriculture. What we experience is that the topsoil is burned by several places in the way you grow. We simply need to get back to good farming practice, where we have a Danish agriculture which is in harmony, a Danish agriculture which can produce its own feed for the number of animals you have, instead of relying on it to continue importing soya, importing protein substances from an area equivalent to one third of the Danish agricultural area. We have an agriculture that is completely out of balance and that balance is not being established by allowing farmers to use more nitrogen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141516	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141520	Thank you. Does the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten recognise the fact that the protein content of Danish cereals is generally lower than, for example, the United Kingdom? grained in some of our neighboring countries you can just go to Germany? Does the rapporteur accept that fact?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141532	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141534	Yes, I recognize that, and if you look at it over 100 years, you can see that the protein content of both barley and wheat in Denmark has been decreasing. It is a trend that extends back many years. If you choose varieties that yield as much yield as possible in kilograms, you cannot get a high protein content at the same time. Perhaps we need a little more farmers in this Chamber. After all, there are two of us now with an agricultural training programme, and there are a total of three of us here. In the old days, there were a little more farmers. I do not know whether this helped to ensure a higher quality in the debates, but I really do think there is a lack of a little more people who know more about cultivating the land and who cannot be, what to say, led to liberalise so much by ploughing up peripheral zones and by just giving in to the fact that more nitrogen can be used in Danish agriculture. In a situation where we have to look after our groundwater and where biodiversity is decreasing, we are in danger of losing the progress we have made by improving the aquatic environment over the past 30 years with more manure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141644	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141647	If the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten acknowledges that there is generally a lower protein content in Danish cereals, would it not be good to ensure that there could be a greater protein content in it so that imports of soya from South America could be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141701	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141704	Thank you. I would very much like us to come to the conclusion that we had a Danish farm without import of livestock feed. This could bring agriculture into balance, and that would be sensible. And if it is the case that farmers want to grow cereals with a higher protein content, then you can choose other varieties. It's as simple as that. If you want protein out of your cereal crop, you can choose other varieties where you prioritise protein instead of prioritising the highest possible yield.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141740	Thank you. There's a questioner about there actually being two, first Mrs. Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141751	Thank you. I know, of course, that the Enhedslisten is very concerned about an environment that is in balance, and that is why I would like to ask whether the rapporteur will recognise and will contribute to a development where we actually find a targeted regulation of agriculture, using the means that are appropriate to the specific problems where they arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141815	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141817	We would very much like a balanced agriculture. We also recognise that the system we have had so far has been too rigid. I can see that there may be clayy soils where you will be able to fertilize a little more, but at the same time it will mean that there are some sandy soils where less must be fertilised. So I'm kind of trying to get us to a system that's a little more intelligent than what we have now. I think that would be a good thing if we could develop it. But the draft law here is simply about giving the Minister a mandate that the Minister can just as well decide that you can increase nitrogen consumption in Danish agriculture. Well, this is a complex problem. 62% of the Danish area is agricultural land, and now we are dealing with a bill which simply allows the Minister to be able to establish that there may be higher fertiliser standards on that area in the future. It's not detailed enough for us to say yes to that kind of thing. But it is very possible that there is a small corner where you could fertilize a little more, and then other places where you should fertilize much less.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141924	Mrs. Mette Bock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208141925	I mean, I think it would be positive if we could find out what we are agreed on. We agree that the regulation that is taking place today is simply not based on a professional basis. We agree that we must move towards regulating output and that we must move towards using instruments that work where there are specific problems. Then I just don't understand what it is that is the reason why Enhedslisten gets off in advance when we've just started the bargain with a few years late after the Nature and Agriculture Commission came up with its report. Then Enhedslisten stands by in advance, just in case. I do not understand that, and I want to hear whether the rapporteur can give us a little explanation of that, because it is a huge mystery to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142009	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142010	Thank you. Then the Liberal Alliance rapporteur should have listened just now, when I just made it clear that there are some areas where you can imagine that the soil and nature can stand for more fertilization. But then there are other places where you have to fertilize less. I do not want to help give a general authorisation for the Minister to simply lay down rules that we do not know about. At the same time, there are three regulations from the European Union, which have been implemented in Denmark as such and which mean that we cannot simply increase our nitrogen pollution. Then comes into conflict with the European Union. In addition, we have our groundwater, which should be able to last for the next generations, and which we do not have any certainty of being properly taken care of by what is here. So I think there's a lot of details missing in this process. We cannot simply say that the Minister must be allowed to set standards without knowing the rules governing them. It is simply a blank cheque that we have been faced with here, that we should just allow the Minister to set the standards forward. We can't do that in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142112	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142115	Thank you. I really think it was an excellent rapporteur's speech, which the rapporteur gave, but we have been running a lot of experiments for a long time now, and we have spent a great deal of money on developing environmental measures that work, also to collect nitrogen nitrogen, because it is not just about nitrogen, there are also many other challenges in relation to production, so I would like to ask: does the rapporteur not agree that we can now prove that after-crops, peripheral areas in some places, wet meadows, etc. etc. Does it have an effect that, when we implement these instruments, we can at the same time benefit the industry, so that we can increase production while increasing quality? It must also be seen in relation to the fact that we have large livestock production and that we may have to import less from abroad, which also affects the environment. Can the rapporteur not see the context of this, i.e. that it is not black or white or for or against, but that this is also an exploitation of the knowledge that we have built together in Denmark after all?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142214	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142216	Thank you. Well, there is a great deal of knowledge in Denmark, and I would like to see the experience that ecologists constantly reap on the rest of agriculture. The aim here is to cultivate intermediate and post-crops in a good ecological crop rotation, and traditional farmers who grow a crop rotation with too much cereals and far too little intermediate and post-crops could learn a lot from it. One fact in agriculture is that there are very large agricultural areas where the topsoil disappears. There are some places in the country where you think there are problems with watercourses and that it is the municipality that does not maintain it properly, but when you go out and measure it, you find that it is really the topsoil that has settled; which has burned away approx. 1 cm a year. So we have, of course, seen good agricultural land in Denmark that disappears and which causes problems in cultivating, because you are exposed to heavy rainfall that can flood land, so they are harder to grow. I think that we have some quite different problems from those which the proposal here proposes to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142323	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142326	I just think that the rapporteur is a little out of the question. Because we agree that there are now some tools that we can document act as a nitrogen fixer. There are catch crops and there are the other things I have mentioned several times. Why is Enhedslisten so opposed to taking advantage of this knowledge that you have first invested in collecting? Projects, experiments and other projects have been carried out to show that these actions actually work? Why not take account of the Danish business community, in this case the farmers, so that we could produce some quality food and create some value for Denmark? We can have a welfare society where we can take care of the weakest by having a business community that earns some money and pays some tax. So why is Enhedslisten opposed to a profession when it can be said that it can work in harmony with nature and the environment... can contribute to the society that I also have the feeling that Enhedslisten supports?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142411	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142413	The Enhedslisten would very much like to help develop Danish agriculture and secure more jobs in the countryside, and it is by investing in more local food and by investing in ecology that we can get to it. But we do not get to that by simply giving the Minister a general authorisation for more manure to be used in Danish agriculture. That's not the way we're going. This is not balanced, compared to the fact that we also have to take care of our nature, in relation to the fact that we have a biodiversity in Denmark that is too declining, compared to the fact that we have some aquatic environment plans, which in the last 30 years have cost billions for Danish society and now we are starting to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142452	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142512	Danish agriculture should be measured and regulated on output and not on input, and Danish agriculture should be regulated so that there is a sustainable balance between industry and the environment. The current regulation sets a ceiling on the fertiliser allocation, and it is clear that Danish agriculture today is fertilising between 18 and 20 per cent. in relation to the needs of the plants. There is no disagreement on this. In Bill L 68, the Minister refers, inter alia, to: I believe it is important to draw attention to the fact that the directive does not require us to reduce nitrate consumption, but rather to reduce pollution, which may have been caused by too high nitrate consumption. The Nitrates Directive requires countries to designate some nitrate-sensitive areas, and there is the strange thing that we in Denmark have identified the whole country as nitrate-sensitive. We in the Liberal Alliance would like to challenge this, and we therefore consider it very important that an international evaluation of the impact of the many aquatic environment plans, which over the years have cost the Danes and Danish farmers billions of kroner, is carried out as soon as possible, without there being any real demonstrable effects of the concrete measures. What we lack in Denmark are concrete measurements in the Danish watercourses, which specifically show whether there are conditions that need to be corrected. Because if there is, there must of course be a correction. We in the Liberal Alliance think that we are making a step on the way with the proposed legislative proposal, although we do not understand why we want to maintain working on the basis of the so-called economic optimum. The economic optimum is an economic calculation; it is not a calculation whose purpose is concrete sustainability, just as it is in the balancing principle referred to in the nitrates directive. We also in the Liberal Alliance, following on from this bill, want the farmer to be guaranteed a legal requirement to be able to challenge the models that will continue to be the basis for nitrogen allocation. If the farmer himself believes he can demonstrate that the models do not correspond to the reality of his land, then the authorities must be obliged to engage in a dialogue on concrete measurement results on the current property, precisely to ensure that it is a professionality and not models that determine how much nitrogen can be allocated. We will bear that in mind in the forthcoming negotiations on the agricultural package. When we subvert, we torment the earth. We starve the plants, and we get a lower yield with a lower quality. It costs jobs, and it costs revenue, without it benefiting the environment. But it is also from a climate point of view a really bad idea. I sometimes wish that those interested in the climate not only automatically correct all criticism of all accidents against agriculture, but also look at how agriculture can contribute positively to climate accounting. Proper fertilization according to the needs of plants, but no more, actually binds much more CO2 has been demonstrated with research from Sweden. Even before the severe reductions in nitrogen standards introduced, the consumption of nitrogen in Danish agriculture fell from the late 1980s to the 1990s. This was due, among other things, to: an increasing use of manure, a better spring allocation and the crumbling of straw. Today we have gone far too far in implementing reductions and restrictions that actually destroy the opportunities for Danish agriculture to return to earning money. The proposed bill is a step on the way in a very, very important paradigm shift, which must lead to agriculture being regulated according to the same principles as industry, namely on output, as also recommended by the Nature and Agriculture Commission. The way forward is concrete measurements, better treatment of urban waste water and, above all, professionalism. Everyone, including the Enhedslisten, should be able to agree on this, and the Liberal Alliance therefore goes positively and constructively into the forthcoming agricultural negotiations in the hope that common sense and professionalism will prevail and that it will even turn out that phasing out the reduced fertilization standards will go faster than we currently expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142936	The rapporteur therefore has some time left, if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142939	Well, I kind of told you what I was gonna say. As I said, we are constructively entering into the negotiations and will carry a proposal into the negotiations, which will also need to further improve this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142948	It was just a shift change, and that's why I got up. It's okay). That's right, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208142954	I understand that the Liberal Alliance would like some measurements to be made, which are similar to what the organisation called Sustainable Agriculture says is so important. I don't know, but if you have to do such measurements, and you have to measure what comes out of the drain pipes, how do you measure it at the moment on the Holstebrokant? Well, there aren't two streams in Denmark that are the same. I do not really see what it is like in the individual farms to make measurement programmes on all drain pipes and on all surface water and like to take it and keep it up against legislation. It was certainly a comprehensive measuring system that should be on such a field, where there may be 10-15 meters between each drain pipe and where what is in the drain pipe may run into a stream below the water surface. Can the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur just unfold a little bit more of what kind of measurement is envisaged?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143057	As I said in my presentation, what we are proposing now is that the farmer be given a right of challenge. The number of measuring points in agriculture is likely to increase. We know that we do not get rid of the models and we know that the models need to be improved. There will probably be many places where there is no disagreement and where things are running as they should. However, where the farmer can challenge the model calculations by making the measurements himself, he must have a legal right to do so. That doesn't mean we have to measure every two meters in every recipient across the country and all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143135	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143136	That's amazing! Imagine if you could protect citizens inside cities with such extensive measuring programmes when talking about air pollution, that would be absolutely fantastic. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there could not be any aspects of this which, like the watchman, are different. I mean, we have this groundwater consideration that we have to take, and I fear that with these changes we will see even more drinking water wells that have to be shut down and where drilling has to be made elsewhere. This means additional costs for business and private customers, for all who drink water. Is the rapporteur not a little concerned that by increasing fertiliser quantities we can come up with a situation where we have to close more drinking water wells in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143215	No, I'm not. First of all, I would like to end with the myth that we are closing drilling after drilling in these years. Actually, we don't. There are some old injuries, and we are in the process of correcting them. Secondly, to the extent that there could be technical evidence that special areas need to be protected, we in the Liberal Alliance are of course in favour of that being possible, but the allocation must be concrete measurements and a professionalism, not feelings and sentimentality. Our objective should be the same, namely that we should, of course, continue to have clean drinking water in Denmark. We should all be able to work on this shoulder by shoulder, but let it be based on concrete measurements and professionalism and not on emotions and scaremongering.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143258	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143259	Thank you for that, and thank you for a liberating speech by the rapporteur, where there really was a slap in the face for the shilling and you could feel where the Liberal Alliance is standing. Perhaps something I missed in the rapporteur's speech was this consideration, such as a number of the blue parties and also some of the red parties, among others. The Social Democratic Party has referred to the wish that the bill for the environmental impact of this proposal should be picked up. I am talking about balance considerations, i.e. the collection of the bill for the additional burden on the environment, also taking into account directives that we are obliged to do and so on. What is the Liberal Alliance's attitude to picking up that environmental bill? Because you can get the full impact of the proposal by not doing so, but vice versa, you can also take account of the environment by picking up the environmental bill with some environmentally friendly initiatives. How does the Liberal Alliance view that relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143353	I'd like to know what kind of documentation that is, sir. Simon Kollerup has for this to lead to an increase in strain. I'd also like to hear from Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup and the Social Democrats, together with the Liberal Alliance, could make an effort to put in place where the real pollution comes from. Let me mention a few things: the millions of tonnes of untreated waste water discharged from the north of the Baltic Sea and urban waste water that we have absolutely no control over at the moment. We see time and time again that there is an overflow which also runs across farmers' fields. We should be able to agree to go to the source. Of course, if there is pollution, it must be stopped, but we must find the real polluter. At the edge of that, I would also like to say that we constantly mention nitrate as the source of pollution of our streams today. We in the Liberal Alliance would very much like to take part in the challenge, because the question is whether we should not instead look much more towards phosphorus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143505	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143507	However, until we are there, and until this huge measuring programme has been phased in and rolled out throughout the country, as the Liberal Alliance proposes, we are dealing with a legislative proposal whose aim is to regulate the use of manure in agriculture in order to limit the leaching of nitrogen, in other words, a legislative proposal which basically talks about there being a leaching of nitrogen and that we should try to limit it. What I just want to know is whether the Liberal Alliance will oppose the fact that already in the negotiations that have to take place we are going in and taking environmentally friendly measures that compensate for the additional burden that will be, or at least the increase in nitrogen that will be included in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143546	Let me get hold of Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup's last sentence. Sir. Simon Kollerup has no idea if there will be any strain as a result of our failure to subjugate. We're not talking about overeating. There's nothing about that in this bill. The bill is actually about us being able to fertilise according to the needs of the plants. There is no mention of a significant increase in nitrogen emissions in Danish waters. I think that we should have this as a common starting point and then have a constructive dialogue on this, instead of building on claims that are not professionally substantiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143625	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143627	Now I come out from a municipality where we spend a lot of time discussing agriculture, but I did not really understand what the rapporteur's answer was to Søren Egge Rasmussen's question about how to make these measurements. I understand the rapporteur's view that the farmer should be able to make a check and say: look here, it does not work. Is it on the individual drain pipe, or is it from one year to another that one should be able to prove that the requirements that are are are not working or how is this to be done? I just didn't understand it, and when you come out of the real world, it's a little hard to see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143702	I simply cannot understand that. Paragraph 1, we need to increase the number of fixed points of measurement. Paragraph 2, we must be able to move around, depending on where problems arise, if they arise, in the coming years. Paragraph 3 is, in fact, already the case today that a large number of farmers make concrete measurements on their own property. It goes without saying that if we can get through this right of challenge that I have presented today, there must be agreement on what it is for measurement methods to be applied outside the recipient. So it doesn't have to be that complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143737	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143739	It's just to understand. If you have to look at how much is emitted, you have to bear in mind that the years are very different, it is very different, how the rain falls etc. etc. Does the rapporteur think that this is something that can be measured from one year to the next, and can we just change the requirements for fertilization, or should it be seen over a 10-year period? It's just to understand how to imagine that such a program should be created, where you just move around at measuring points, and then still away can ensure e.g. The South Funen archipelago, where it is not so much that comes from outside, but where it is the local farms that pollute. How do you imagine being able to control it? Is it over a long period of time, or is it a short period of time, and can you fertilize something more?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143820	Paragraph 1, I imagine, is developing the measurement methods we are actually using today. A thorough professional discussion is under way on the methods of measurement to be used. Paragraph 2 must then be based on a debate on how long periods must be measured in order for the farmer to be able to get through with his right of challenge. But surely we must be able to agree that it is reality and not models that should be the basis for what kind of paradigm shift we are currently in the process of regulating Danish agriculture. I certainly hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143851	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143854	I think we have different perceptions of what the reality is in relation to these measurements. But what I really wanted to ask is because I was a little worried about that, was what the rapporteur said, that urban waste water is not under control at all. Then I thought, 'We're gonna have to do something about that, 'cause it's new to me. Would the rapporteur not like to clarify what is not at all under control?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143918	I assume that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is aware that we have been subjected on several occasions to the overflow of waste water plants and to the flooding of farmers' fields. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen cannot be surprised that this is happening and that it is happening repeatedly and that it continues to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143936	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208143937	All right, I thought it was such a general problem that the rapporteur raised. But now that we are at this point with flooded fields, the rapporteur will acknowledge that when, for example, we do so. are we talking fertilization today, of course, does it also have an effect on flooded fields that you want to make these retrograde steps in relation to the aquatic environment efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208144003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208144004	In other words, if we are talking about flooded fields, I have to say quite frankly that the biggest problem we have is the lack of porridge cutting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208144015	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Nicolaj Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208144023	Thank you very much. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen for an inspiring and interesting and scientifically well-founded rapporteur speech. Thank you very much. In the alternative, we are also strongly opposed to increasing the nitrogen standards without a specific technical solution which can match nutrient leaching. We do not believe that this can be done in the future. There will be significant and unacceptable environmental damage from the proposal here, among other things. in drinking water and biodiversity, and neutralising can cost a great deal in the future. As far as biodiversity is concerned, the damage can actually be irreparable. In order for this to make sense both economically and environmentally, some more specific calculations must be made of the profits generated by the higher yield and whether it is exceeded by the costs associated with both the increased greenhouse gas emissions here we are talking about nitrous oxide and nitrogen in the aquatic environment. Once these costs have been found, it should be made clear who is to pay them. We believe that the polluter pays principle should also apply to the costs of implementing compensatory environmental measures. In the alternative, we believe that if compensatory environmental measures are needed, the existing regulation should under no circumstances be phased out until the new regulation is developed and ready for implementation. That is why we cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208144202	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Anders Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208144217	The Radical Left would very much like to take part in a major reform of our agriculture. We see that agriculture can undergo the same transformation as we have seen in the energy sector. The energy sector has gone from using a lot of coal and oil to now using a lot of renewable energy and at the same time making more money, exporting for billions of dollars, creating more jobs. The kind of regulation we have on agriculture today is what is called collective regulation. All farmers are faced with the same demands: no matter how good you are at business, no matter how green you are, no matter what investment you have made, no matter what land you cultivate, you are met by the same regulation. We think it is quite obvious to embark on what many call targeted regulation, in other words that farmers who take care of animal welfare, the climate, the environment and are good at making money will have a different form of regulation than some of those who have to do something different from what they are doing today. In principle, this bill allows the Minister to allow different possibilities of fertilization, depending on what land the farmer is cultivating. We think it is obvious to go that way and start to see whether the earth can hold to it or not. What is then, of course, just the challenge, as many other rapporteurs have mentioned, is that there is nothing in the draft law about what is going to happen to those lands where you may today grow too much. It may be that on some soils you may be allowed to fertilize more than today, but other soils you may have to go out or do something special about. It doesn't say anything about that. At the very end of the remarks, it says that the government will come up with a comprehensive package on how to deal with the pollution resulting from this bill. We still have to see that, and we look forward to seeing it, and we also need to see and have a debate on that before we can support the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208144426	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I regret that I did not say the rapporteur's name correctly before. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208144444	In SF we also want to make a big agricultural package so that Danish agriculture will be future-proof, sustainable and also economically sustainable. We just don't see how this proposal helps. And, as my colleagues from the Radicals have said, why is the government so busy removing environmental rules, peripheral zones and after-crops before the targeted regulation is in place? That is precisely not what the Nature and Agriculture Commission recommends. I think that when we use this concept of targeted regulation, which the Nature and Agriculture Commission recommends just now, there are some who use it and only see it on the one hand and say: Well there are some who should be allowed to fertilize more where it can be tolerated. That's absolutely right. But as Mr. Andreas Steenberg also mentioned, there are others who are more delicate and who must be taken out or where less is to be fertilised. That was the compromise that was then to be reached within the industry. That is the great beast of the revelation, and that is what we hear nothing about. This bill is part of the government's agricultural package, which must, overall, ease environmental requirements for agriculture. I would like to put a rhetorical question to the Minister today, and it may be that we can go into it further in committee: when agricultural debt is the major factor, the main problem is how much of the debt will then be planned if agriculture is allowed to pollute more and at the same time, for example. should not contribute to reducing emissions of climate gases? I would like to hear the Minister answer that question, otherwise I will pursue it in committee because it is the agricultural economy that is the biggest problem for agriculture itself. It's the result of a land price bubble in the '00s. In addition, people can also see what the Danes want from agriculture. A significant majority of the population do not believe that agriculture's desire to produce more pigs, emit more ammonia and be allowed to fertilize more can bring growth and prosperity in Denmark. Sixty-one percent. by the Danes want Denmark to take the lead in the EU with stricter environmental requirements • only 10%. Says no. And the numbers are from an opinion poll done for Agriculture & Food • It's not something I'm standing here making up. So the Left is out of line with the people. The Danes do not believe that the government should challenge EU legislation by giving agriculture a more open environment for pollution. And it is incomprehensible to us that the government has not chosen to use the work just presented by the Nature and Agriculture Commission in April 2013, which indicates a balanced path for nature and agriculture to exist side by side, that is, where agriculture can grow, while respecting environmental rules and giving nature more space. Instead of driving in the middle of the road, the government has unintelligiblely pierced the manure truck and driven it all the way to the right mud ditch. Slagfest's been convicted out there. It may be that the policy of the Left brings joy in Sustainable Agriculture and in parts of Agriculture & Food, but understanding and acceptance of agriculture does not increase. We need an agriculture that will come into the future and that will be sustainable, including economically. The total agricultural package from the government is intended to lead to between 1⁄2 and 1 million tonnes of additional greenhouse gas emissions per year from agriculture. The government has already made it clear that they will not cut agricultural greenhouse gas emissions, and thus it can be expected that Denmark's emissions by 2020 will not be reduced by the 37 per cent that was the government's target until last week, and certainly not by the 40 per cent that a majority in this Parliament wants. Finally, I would like to mention three aspects in which the SF wants to dig into the work of the committee: firstly, does the policy of the Left and the draft agricultural economy benefit? The Left envisages an increase in agricultural production based on more of the same by looking at the framework for how much can be contaminated in accordance with EU legislation. Greater pig production will, for example, be achieved. not mean, all other things being equal, that pig prices rise. Secondly, and following on from the first: what happens to the investments in production equipment made in confidence in the Left's environmental policy if the government's search for the lowest common denominator in EU legislation is overruled in the Commission and subsequently tightened up, for example. emissions of nitrogen? Thirdly, how willing does the government think the Danes have to pay the bill for the tax ticket? In these weeks and days, over 40,000 farmers receive 6.2 billion. kr. in the case of the payment of annual aid, and in addition, with the Government Finance Act 2016 taxpayers must pay to clean up after agriculture. Reserves of 225 million have been set aside. kr. in 2016 and 300 million; kr. Annually from 2017 to 2019 to implement compensatory environmental measures. In all other professions, the polluter pays principle is followed. The SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145003	Then there are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145008	Thank you. If you are in the trade unions, for example. The NNF, the LO or others, followed this debate, and I believe that many of them do, so I think we would be very shocked by the rapporteur's speech we have just heard from the SF. For in the Left we have at least several members of parliament who have just been invited to meetings with the NNF and the LO, and that has been said: Dear politicians, now you have to do something to ensure that we also have a farm in the future. Because there are plenty of jobs at stake in the slaughterhouse sector and in the transport sector and in trade and much else, and it is said that something is absolutely necessary now. And I can almost regret the fact that the SF's rapporteur has apparently not attended those meetings and listened to what the trade unions have said. So I can only recommend that we try to listen a little to those who can do exactly something to ensure that we have jobs in the future. So I would just like to ask one question: does the SF rapporteur accept the premise that we in the Left have said that we must have these competitive improvements in balance with the environment? Does the SF rapporteur accept the premise we have put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145117	Firstly, every time we have had a meeting in the circle and every time a slaughterhouse and jobs were lost under the previous government and the former minister, I have been there to look at what we could do with compensatory measures. And I don't remember that Mr. Erling Bonnesen has been there, but it may be that my memory is playing tricks on me. On the other hand, Mr. Erling Bonnesen there a little year ago when we made a package of over 4 billion. kr., such as: went to a lot of support for pig stalls. So there are a lot of moves out there, and I think there should be too. We need a farm in Denmark. But we must bring agriculture into the future, and the fact is that Danish agriculture is heavily indebted. There are some who are doing very well, but there are also some who are extremely indebted. Why is it that we are not looking at the biggest problem facing agriculture, which the Cowi report emphasized, namely that the burden of interest, the debt burden on parts of agriculture, is unsustainable? It is to put agriculture in the eye to say: you can just get to emit some more nitrogen, then everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145222	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145224	Thank you. I asked a very simple question, but I did not get an answer to it, so I would just like to repeat that question and only that: does the SF rapporteur recognise the premise that we have put in the left, namely that we need to make some competitive improvements for our agricultural and food sector in balance with the environment? Does the SF rapporteur accept that premise?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145242	Yes, if that was the premise left by the Left. But that is not the premise that the Left has put forward, because the premise that nature and agriculture must be able to exist side by side, is a premise that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has put forward. That is not the premise put forward by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145256	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145259	So, I would like the rapporteur to repeat in relation to the thousands of Danish farmers who are currently fighting a brave battle to survive, that the rapporteur thinks this proposal will lead to, was it manure feast in the mud ditch? Did I hear you right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145317	Up to 1 tonne extra discharge. What I am saying, and I would like to repeat it for Mette Bock, is that you close your eyes to what is the overriding problem of agriculture, namely a debt of 360 billion. kr. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction, and I would like to make it clear that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction. Because what the COWI report also emphasises is that Danish farmers are actually earning money. They're productive. What makes you turn your thumb down is the burden of interest and the debt burden. So yes, I would like to have an agriculture that also exists in the future, but that means that we have to look at what is the real problem, and it is therefore not whether agriculture and the environment can exist side by side. They can if you choose a different path.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145411	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145412	I would like to take part in discussing the debt burden, which we certainly do not close our eyes to. I don't know who's closing their eyes. We don't. But the bill we have on today's agenda is about fertilization. It is about what I have such a fervent desire for us to agree across political differences, namely that we need to regulate specifically where the problems are, with the instruments that work best. But couldn't we together figure out how to go that way instead of slinging manure parties and mud ditches on each other's heads?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145446	I fully agree, and that is why I would like to read out the sentence with which I started my rapporteur's speech: why is it so busy removing environmental rules, peripheral zones and after-crops before the targeted regulation is in place? For I fully recognise what is the main message of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, namely that the targeted regulation means that there are some places where you can fertilise more and other places where you can fertilise less. And the puzzle, the overall picture must be in place. One cannot only say that there are some who must fertilize more and then would not discuss the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145523	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145525	Well, Enhedslisten wanted there to be more farmers. I do not know what the Danish People's Party would want, but at least another debate. The fact that this is going to be a manure party certainly requires a substantial increase in the number of animals. It is the case that in Denmark we handle the manure that we have in the first way. In fact, we are talking about fertiliser in relation to it. However, when the rapporteur says that we are now removing peripheral zones, we are now removing catch crops, and now we are removing wetlands and so on, I would like to say: no, we are not removing it. You do it voluntarily, that is, non-mandatory. What we are doing now is what the Nature and Agriculture Commission said. SF says that it is interesting what the Nature and Agriculture Commission has come up with. Yes, it is. After all, you are saying that environmental regulation must be made which is targeted, and it is certainly targeted to look at the individual water catchment area rather than to do what is being done today. If you hold on to what we have, you regulate all the same and equally badly or equally well. In some places, it is appropriate to regulate. There it is as it should be. In other places it is not appropriate because you do not have the soil conditions that exist for you to have a single regulation across Denmark. Does the rapporteur not agree that there should be another regime than what we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145632-2	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145640	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145640-2	I am really glad that the rapporteur can give such a clear answer. But then I simply do not understand that the SF is not more constructive in relation to this. Well, you try a little rhetorical to make this black and white: who are the bad guys, who are the good guys? This is, in fact, about the fact that there is a profession, and the rapporteur is quite right to say that there is actually a debt burden. But this would be just one of the tools that could help lift it so that you could get a better bottom line, so that you could create added value out there. And, of course, it should not be at the expense of the environment. That is also why these measures are being drawn out as general instruments and now they are becoming voluntary. Can't the SF see that there's an advantage in making targeted regulation now and, of course, using the instruments that we know work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145720	I fully agree, and I have said this before, that we must have targeted regulation. But now we only give a blank cheque to the minister to set a higher level without saying that total Danish agriculture should be seen as a whole, without saying that we are now entering into a national compromise across the parties with the total industry and saying: there are some lands that can hold on to more, some to less, and that is the overall picture. It's the whole model you have to assume. But that's not what we're talking about today. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that it should not, of course, affect nature or the climate, but it will. Well, you don't care about that, but that's not the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145800	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145804	I would like to ask Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen what the solution is in terms of debt settlement, because I am surprised that it is, as it were, the defensive argument here that we should not do anything about manure, because the major problem is the debt crisis. Does that mean we have to pay this 350 billion? kr., or what does that mean that we should look at the debt? Well, in concrete terms, how are we going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145827	I would like to thank you for the question, because I actually think it is very relevant to discuss it. I wish now it would be over by the Minister for Business and Growth that the Minister invited all the parties of the Danish Parliament and said: How can we look at this? Of course, not only can we remove agricultural debts with a stroke of pen, but I think that one of the measures should be to involve the financial sector, because, just as we had a home bubble, we also had a ground bubble in the '00s. After all, some of these banks have started to write off some of the debts themselves, but they should also come into play there, because it will have a devastating effect if those who are most exposed suddenly roll over like domino pieces. Then we had to see if we could find some way to dismantle some of those who are going to go bankrupt, and we all know that there are some who cannot survive today, regardless of what we are offering them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145924	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov? Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208145947	The bill here is part of the 16-point plan, which is why it is probably not surprising that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill. We have chosen to support the 16-point plan in general and this specific proposal because we recognise that there must be a balance between environmental considerations and the economic survival of agriculture. Both are extremely important. It is extremely important that we take good care of our environment. It is very, very important that we have a sensible aquatic environment in Denmark and in the sea around us, and it is also extremely important that our agriculture can survive. This is so important a part of Danish culture, and Danish economy also plays a crucial role in agriculture. So it is very crucial for our country that we have an agriculture that can work. That is why we also need to do something. We cannot just look at agriculture having such major economic problems as it has had in recent years. We need to act on this, and we are trying to do so with the 16-point plan. We fully agree here that there is a balance and that it would, of course, be most environmentally appropriate if we did not in any way open the door to more fertilising on the Danish fields. However, we trust the government and we trust the commitments that lie in ensuring that we do not exacerbate our aquatic environment until 2021. We trust that the additional measures that will come will enable us to maintain a good aquatic environment. It is quite a great deal of trust that we give to the government here, and we would also like to join with other parties, if you wish to keep the government up, that it will also be so. This will certainly lead to a very specific debate on fertilisers in the coming years, and it is also planned that we will keep a close eye on what action will be taken, and there we hope that those parties who are critical of the draft law today will also be constructively involved in that discussion and look at what we can do further, until we get more targeted regulation. There is also a great commitment of confidence in the government in order to implement the targeted regulation, and here we are also in agreement that there are a number of years here where there is a gap between the fact that we are now allowing increased fertilization and the fact that we are getting more targeted regulation, and there we are very excited about how we are going to put it into effect. We look forward to getting some good methods. I would say correctively that, in relation to the debate that has taken place, we do not imagine that we need to measure each river around to see how the targeted regulation is to be implemented, but we expect that some calculations will be based on more objective and more easily measurable parameters. Rather than having to go in and measure each stream to see how the condition is, we will probably look at some calculation models and thereby have a more targeted regulation. It makes very good sense to have this targeted regulation, because it strikes precisely the right balance between environmental and economic considerations, so that we can actually find a solution here where it is possible for both the environment and agriculture to be better off than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150320	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150326	Thank you. Conservatives now want to be the bourgeois green party, and I also think we have heard some fine things. I'd like to sign for that. But I want to ask you quite specifically today: in relation to the total 16-point plan, up to 1 million will come from. I do not know whether the rapporteur has read the speech in the Politiken. I do not know whether there is going to be a high level of play with 30 years of water-environmental efforts on which we have spent billions and which may turn into wasted money, what would the rapporteur say is the justification for doing this? If the rapporteur has time, the rapporteur should also be happy to follow up on the issue of debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150427	I will start with the last on the debt problem. Well, as I also said to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen before, it's a little difficult for me to see how to do something about that debt. Well, we don't have 350 billion. kr. which we can use to remove agricultural debts, and one cannot restructure oneself out of the fact that one owes a whole lot of money away. You can't ask the banks to take the bill either. It would simply be deeply unreasonable to say that the people who have put money into and lent money to agriculture should not have it back. So it is very difficult to see other solutions at least for us, otherwise we would like to hear concrete proposals from the SF. Then I have to admit that this draft law that we are discussing today is not in itself a legislative proposal that will improve the environment rather than the contrary. However, we have some additional measures which mean that we are still obliged to maintain a water environment at the same level as we have today. We also expect that this will be met; that the government will take steps to ensure that the aquatic environment does not become worse overall. However, it is clear that the removal of reduced fertilization standards is of course not an environmental measure. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150535	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150537	I think that the rapporteur and I should drink a cup of coffee and talk a little more about this debt problem, because at least we have some proposals from the SF, and they are not, of course, about taxpayers simply having to pay a debt of 350 billion. kr., but leave it for now. I would like to ask about this about targeted regulation. That is what we are all talking about, and if we were to talk about the same thing, perhaps we could also agree more that the very vulnerable soils might have to be taken out, or at least less, while we can give a little more weight to those who can hold on to something more. This is what the Nature and Agriculture Commission recommends to look at the overall picture. But does the rapporteur not agree that this is not really what we are debating today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150621	No, I do not entirely agree with that, because things are connected. I mean, we wouldn't have agreed to this bill today if it weren't because it was linked to a promise to introduce targeted regulation. It is true that this is not in itself what we are adopting today, but it is, of course, a clear prerequisite for us to adopt the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150640	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150642	The rapporteur said that the rapporteur trusts the government and that, moreover, this bill does not make the environment any worse. If you look at the bill itself, you can see that where the change is, it is quite succinctly described. It says: "The minister lays down the nitrogen standards of crops. And then there's room for two blank cheques downstairs. That's how succinct the bill is. I think that is deeply worrying, because I can well imagine that something can be done to compensate, but we do not have the certainty that we will have something that will reduce nitrogen pollution elsewhere. I find that very disturbing. I am a little disappointed that the Conservatives have not gone to the test here and have looked a little more critically at what the 16-point plan says and looked at the conditions for it. Because giving agriculture the right to fertilize more does not solve the problems. I would like the rapporteur to comment a little more on whether there is no cause for concern when you do not have the instruments where nitrogen pollution is to be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150753	At least there is reason to keep an eye on it. There is reason to keep an eye on additional measures to ensure that this does not affect our aquatic environment, and we will do so too. It is also true that it is a great declaration of confidence in the government that it is given as wide a power as we are now giving it here, to be able to set more or less nitrogen standards, without having to elaborate in detail in the Folketing. But we are very confident in the Conservative People's Party and we trust our government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150829	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150831	I look forward very much to working with the Conservatives, because I have heard that the Conservatives have submitted a motion for a resolution to stick to a 40-percent CO2 but it is of course disturbing when there is one bill after another that increases our CO2 2 So you are putting up with something here that will be harder to implement. Enhedslisten has a lot of suggestions on how we can get to grips with it, but I look like it's getting harder and harder because every time the Conservatives put votes to things that are pulling in the wrong direction CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150916	No one has said that it must be easy to be a member of the Folketing. It does not matter that you are asked to find solutions where you are not only unconsciously driving in a direction, but are actually trying to find solutions that are to the benefit of society as a whole, and thus also thinking about business interests. That is what Conservatives are trying to do. We have this balance. We are not such a watermelon party as Enhedslisten and SF, which are green on the outside and red inside. We are green, but we are also bourgeois, and we therefore also take account of the economy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208150953	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151004	Thank you for the rapporteurs' comments on the draft law. I was inspired to start by quoting Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who talked about coming back to good farming practice. In fact, I would say that this is exactly what this draft law is about, namely returning to good farming practice, where, of course, we fertilize optimally. That is what has been called for, and that is what has a very high socio-economic value, and therefore it makes very good sense that we are now taking the first step in removing the reduced fertilization standard and putting Danish farmers on an equal footing with farmers in other countries in relation to being able to fertilise economically optimally. Many rapporteurs have said that this draft law merely contains a broad mandate for the Minister and is therefore, in a sense, empty. I must admit that, because that is what it is about, because it is about being able to issue an announcement at a later date. I would just like to say quite frankly that I am not particularly happy to ask the Danish Parliament to deal with a bill with such broad authority and without knowing all the consequences that have come from at this time. I hurry to say this because I know there are colleagues in this Chamber who have heard me talk a lot about us being careful to give broad powers to ministers. If that is the case here, then it is because we are in a hurry, because if we are to give farmers the opportunity to change their nitrogen standards in the next growing year, we simply have to get to grips with the legislative process on this proposal right now. It is therefore the intention, as several speakers have also said, that we should have the substance fleshed out in the process and discuss the consequences of changing the standards of fertilization. It is the case that we do not yet have the professional basis for a concrete phasing-out model, but it will be in place here in the coming weeks, when I will also discuss how and how best to deal with it with those parties of the Folketing who are interested. This also means that we can have some good discussions when we have the professional basis and that it will then be able to be included in the committee's examination of the draft law here in the future. Once again, I would like to congratulate the previous government on setting up this so-called nitrogen committee at the beginning of the year, a committee of officials which is now gaining the professional basis for us to have a good discussion on what we really are facing in the field of nitrogen. As I have said, the actual execution is to be effected by means of a notice which is so keen to enter into force this February, when the current notice expires. It will be very close to my heart to ensure, as several rapporteurs have called for, the necessary balance, the necessary consideration for both food production and the environment. And we must ensure that the EU's legal obligations are respected in the sense that the increase in nitrogen standards could be matched by environmental compensatory measures. After all, a number of initiatives have already been launched in the form of new wetlands, more energy crops, more ecology and similar measures which we need to discuss with each other and which also contribute to the structural development of agriculture. In the overall food and agriculture package, we are supposed to agree on how to deal with nitrogen regulation, and the effects of the future relaxation of regulation need to be complemented by necessary environmental mitigation measures. So I also fully understand the worried mines that have been among some of the rapporteurs today in terms of how this is now being put into practice, but we will all be more aware of this when the legislative proposal is being examined in the near future. I am surprised that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen was just so concerned about the debt problem in agriculture, while at the same time taking such a stand against this bill. Because if anything, when you talk about economic challenges in agriculture, it is essential here. The University of Copenhagen has made new calculations of what the value is of the reduced standards, and in the past the university has calculated that it was between 0.5 and 1 billion. kr. Now the estimate is that you calculate the value to be about 1.3 to 1.8 billion. kr. So when you are concerned about the economic challenges in agriculture and that there should be a better operating result, because that is what can, in the longer term, be done in relation to the debt problem, you should be concerned about entering into negotiations on how we can change our environmental regulation, how we can ensure better framework conditions for agriculture and food production in Denmark, while at the same time discussing how we can move on to a more targeted regulation, which is, in fact, a follow-up to precisely the intentions of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, and which was later confirmed politically in the Growth Agreement in 2014. And that is exactly what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151617	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151620	Now may not be the time for the big debates, but I would very much like us to come up with something that is good farming, where the land is cultivated on a long-term basis and not grow a crop that is grown according to some particular nitrogen standard. These are the long-term glasses we need to wear if we are to make good farming priorities. I believe that the Minister can well change this bill. I have seen a few times that ministers have done so. The Minister is right, of course, that it is actually a habit to adopt this type of law, and then after a few months there will be an announcement which is actually the most important thing. I think this is a pity, because it gives the Folketing a less favourable opportunity to adopt what is right. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is not worth rethinking to have a legislative decision that contains more precision than just this authorisation for the Minister to be allowed to set nitrogen standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151723	No, I do not intend to change the legislative proposal which is now before the first reading, but, as I have mentioned, while it is now going through the committee procedure and further discussion in the Folketing, we will have the substance, namely the consequences of changing the norm reduction, and the parties are discussing with each other what action should be taken instead. However, if it is to have an effect as early as the next growing season, we simply have to start the legislative process in the Folketing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151759	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151802	After all, this is a bit complicated, because we are faced with three EU directives: the nitrates directive, the habitats directive and the water framework directive, which have to be complied with and which have been implemented in Denmark. Does the Minister think that, in a process of announcement, we can come up with something that, like ensuring that the three directives are fully complied with, when at the same time we have increased nitrogen emissions because the rim zones are ploughed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151834	I can assure you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that I intend to comply with the EU directives and the obligations that Denmark has in this regard. I think that is a very important framework for our work. At the same time, however, I also believe that the changes that come from changing the reduced fertilization standards are manageable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151855	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151857	Thank you. I would like to start by signing for the announcement by the Minister that there is a need for environmental compensatory measures as a follow-up to the legislative proposal that is being discussed today and that this is how the complete picture can be seen in it. We are very much in agreement with this in the Social Democratic Party. We also want this more balanced approach to the growth of the food industry, namely that it can go hand in hand with nature and the environment. Earlier in the debate Mrs Mette Bock spoke on the platform, saying that there was a lack of evidence as to whether increased nitrogen intake also meant increased leaching, that is, an increased impact on the environment. Does the Minister share the view that there is no evidence of that effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208151941	I share Mrs Mette Bock's wish that we should have more measurements and more knowledge of what it really looks like. Therefore, part of my proposals in the agricultural and food package will also be to strengthen the measurements so that we discuss the real figures. I quite agree with that. I also believe that there is an increased nitrogen challenge to this bill, i.e. the fact that we are changing the reduced fertilization standards. But what the effect is, then, is what we will be better aware of when we get some figures from the nitrogen committee here in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152016	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152022	Thank you. First of all, I should like to say something about the Minister's comment on what this could mean economically for agriculture. I just have to say that giving the Minister a blank cheque in relation to nitrogen standards, that is, something that will pay 0.5%. I am not willing to do so in the overall debt burden of Danish agriculture. However, since there is such a broad consensus on targeted regulation, I cannot understand why the Minister is not presenting anything. It could be something that the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF could also be involved in, where we say that we have this assurance that the overall model also takes into account the delicate, vulnerable soils, and then there are other places where we know that more can be fertilised. Then you would have made a very, very broad agreement which would be much more sensible than the status quo and would last because it might involve the whole parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152127	I must honestly say that, following today's debate, I do not get the impression that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is interested in balancing it in terms of taking account of both agricultural production and environmental regulation in Denmark. After all, it is important to be prepared for both the considerations to be taken into account, for example. in the food and agriculture package. And this is precisely when we are concerned with the economic problems of agriculture, an element that actually provides better conditions, and I have emphasized in all possible contexts that at the same time we will address the environmental challenge. However, making a regime change, so to speak, and moving from general environmental regulation to more targeted environmental regulation, is not something we do over night. It is something that takes time to develop more concretely. But agriculture, precisely because of the economic problems that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen herself highlighted in her speech today, requires us to act now, and that is why we are so busy getting concrete results.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152226	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152229	Well, there is also a whole range of socio-economic costs of this, and then you just have to ask yourself: is it taxpayers who have to pay for measures that out of the total agricultural debt will have an impact on about 0.5%.? That is what the Minister said with the 1.8 billion. kr. And that's where I just think there's a lot bigger stuff at stake. In a few years the debt has been doubled because of the ground bubble in the '00s. And that's where you could try to go in and look at it. We made some very, very big moves in relation to the banks when we had a home bubble, and you could perhaps go in and see if there were some things you could look at there. So this doesn't really mean anything economical.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152316	Thank you to the rapporteur. I must point out that when I stand up, it is because time is the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152322	Thank you. I can tell Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that we are actually spending billions of dollars in advance to protect nature and the environment, and I think that is in our common interest, because it is one of the forces we have in Denmark. And I believe that there is a socio-economic interest in ensuring proper framework conditions for agricultural production. If we take the food industry as such, it employs about 150,000 people. It accounts for one quarter of exports of goods, worth 150 billion. kr. So it is a really good investment for society to meet the challenge facing agriculture today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152406	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152409	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Minister for the speech. At any rate, it shows that it is constructive work that is starting now in relation to the opportunities and, of course, also the challenges associated with this bill here. But now that we hear SF say here that a special effort must be made for vulnerable lands... would the SF like to work for the Minister to confirm that if you maintain the regime today, you have exactly the same effort on vulnerable lands as on robust lands, precisely because you do not have a targeted regulation? It is precisely a regulation that makes everything treated the same. You have a standard reduction of 18-20 per cent, and that is what you drive both on vulnerable soils and on robust soils. So you do not take particular account of vulnerable soils. Can the Minister not confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152457	Yes, the Minister can confirm Mr. René Christensen's question about the vulnerable and rugged areas. And one of the major tasks for us in preparing the targeted regulation is to identify the vulnerable areas. And again I would say that if you are to think about what environmental measures you have to take and what the price is of the various environmental measures, then we have seen with the latest assessment of peripheral zones that it makes a very big difference whether you have done the work to find out where it is they have the optimal effect. Because we can see from the rim zones we know that it is very scattered what effect they have at all. Some have a very large effect, others have a relatively small effect. And there makes it more sense that we should then use those measures where they have an optimal effect, and that requires knowledge of the vulnerable areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152548	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked for the floor at all, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152606	The debate is now open, and that is why I would like to ask you, Mr President. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen get on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152627	Thank you for that, President. And I'm sorry I was a little eager to come up here, but now I've been sitting here waiting a while, so it's nice to come up here and get started. Because I would like to say that for social democracy a well-functioning labour market is very important. For all Danes, we want them to become part of the community that a workplace constitutes. A workplace provides good colleagues, professional identity and, above all, a dependable basis for the individual to be able to follow his or her own dreams. For the Social Democratic Party, the good work is the key to a meaningful Unfortunately, not all people have a job to stand up to. This is, for example, the case. on the many people who are being caught in the cash assistance system. Unfortunately, over time, a culture has developed in which people on cash benefits have been left entirely to themselves. In our view, cash benefits must be a temporary support and, for us, it is essential that cash benefits recipients, like all other unemployed people, should be given the right help to get back to work. As a society, we must always stand with an outstretched hand when, for one reason or another, people are outside. A good example is the mentoring scheme that is proposed here today and that a broad circle of parties were included in the cash benefits reform in 2013. Persons on the edge of the labour market must, through a mentor, come closer to the labour market • that was agreed by all parties in spring 2013. Today, two and a half years later, we are then dealing with a bill that is going to amputate the outstretched hand that we otherwise gave to the cash benefits recipients in 2013. Here we also see that the blue block shows its true face. The mentor bet gets a round shaving, so it bats. State reimbursement of the costs incurred by the municipalities in connection with the mentoring scheme, as well as state reimbursement of expenditure, are also abolished for other counselling and retraining of the unemployed. In addition, the draft law provides for the minimum mentoring requirement to be changed from every week to every two weeks so that the unemployed person will have less time with his mentor. I am very, very much surprised that the government wants to reduce the mentoring effort and the other upgrading of the activity-ready unemployed before the instruments have even been allowed to work properly. In addition, we are also very surprised that the Danish People's Party openly chooses to save 400 million. kr. to finance tax relief for the richest in our society. It's just flabby. We in the Social Democratic Party want to give a helping hand to vulnerable unemployed people so that they can return to the labour market, and that includes proper mentoring for the unemployed. This bill, which the government is presenting together with the Danish People's Party, is withdrawing society's outstretched hand to the unemployed while at the same time opening the way for tax cuts to the richest. That is why we are voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152949	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208152954	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a nicely sharp, precise and committed rapporteur speech. I agreed with every single word, because it is a question of removing one of the very good elements of the cash benefits reform that we did not agree on as a whole, but at least we agreed that this was a very good thing. And now you remove it. Then my question is: what does the rapporteur really think about this? For one of the arguments for the reform of the social security system, and that one had to do it with the Left, was that then one had some leash in the bourgeois parties. But how much leash does one really have in it, when just 11⁄2 years have passed and experience has not even been summed up, and we see that the bourgeois parties are in full swing to cut the good elements out of the cash aid reform? How is it experienced?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153044	Now I do not think we have ever had a view of what the questioner is saying here about having a leash in the right wing here in the Folketing. The cash aid reform that we agreed was precisely an agreement and not a settlement, and that also means that the government that is sitting here can do as it pleases in relation to the agreement that was made at the time. What I think is really, really a pity it is true that in such an agreement something sucks and something that is sweet, and what is being done here by the current government together with, not least, the Danish People's Party, is that you make sure you take what is sweet, and then the acid probably has to be left behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153124	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153126	Thank you. We are always told that it is very important for the Socialists to make labour market policy across the middle, because then we are sure that we will have something stable that lasts for a long time. So this is an example of how it's not gonna last. For when the bourgeois come to and get power as they have watched, they cut the good things out of it, and back they become all that is not very good, to put it nicely. Then my point is that you might as well have done a really good cash assistance reform along with Enhedslisten. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153157	Now I think it was the case that it was not possible to have a majority just with the Enhedslisten alone. At any rate, in this situation, if we wanted to achieve the things that were planned, we would not have reached it with the Enhedslisten alone. I'm absolutely sure of it. But then, by the way, we believe in the best, even when we make agreements with the blue wing here in the Folketing. We can also see in a large number of other cases that it usually works in such a way that an agreement is an agreement and that it remains so. But unfortunately, it hasn't lasted in this round. One can say that we will come back later, and then, perhaps with Enhedslisten, we will have to make this right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153237	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153240	Thank you. Now it may quickly appear that the mentor support is being removed. It doesn't. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen himself has stood up there and said that it will be changed to a minimum once every 14 days. I'm just gonna check with you on this, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen thinks it looks like the contact between mentors and those out there. Thinks sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen has contact with mentors at least once a week? I know, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen also states that there are some who have contact with them every day; there are also some who have contact with them less often, but it is at least once a week. Expects Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen saw that no one is in contact with a mentor more than every 14 days with this new bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153335	That, sir. Bent Bøgsted says that the recipients of cash benefits are talking to their mentor and that they are the ones who are supposed to take responsibility for the conversation. This is the other way around. This is about the municipality being responsible for ensuring that there is a contact with the cash benefit recipient at least once a week in the current system. You change that, it changes the Danish People's Party with the government, so it is at least once every 14 days. Either way, we are talking about the people who are out on the extreme edge of the labour market, we know that and the longer they are out, the less contact they want and have with the public, including with the job centre. That is why it is extremely important that some people take hold of these people to ensure that they can now get on track so that they get close to the labour market that we would like them to come out on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153425	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153427	Then I can inform Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen that I have then had contact with some who have only had contact with the mentor once for a period of three months and according to the legislation which Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen says that it was the Social Democracy that made that they should have the minimum once a week, but they have only had contact once in three months. Something's wrong. Is it not the case that basically, whether it says at least once a week or at least once every 14 days, it is the municipality that ultimately decides how much mentor support the individual needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153505	The fact that the recipient of cash benefits is in the situation of being entitled to mentor support does not mean that the municipality decides how much. You can decide that there is more to be done, but they cannot pull down, and the example that Mr. Bent Bøgsted refers to here, I think is right to report because it is a clear breach of the agreement that we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153524	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153529	Before you stand and regret too much that there is a change in the cash aid reform, it would not be appropriate to recognise that you did so yourself. It had not even been six months since we last made a cash assistance reform in 2013 before changing it and abolishing the mutual dependent. Other changes in the cash benefits reform have also been made to the Finance Act with the Enhedslisten. So, before criticising the blue block for making changes to what the rapporteur rightly said was an agreement and not a conciliation, perhaps we should also stress or point out that we ourselves have done so. I guess it's not that worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153614	Now I am of the opinion that this was a situation where something was given to when we made an agreement with Enhedslisten. There we added something that was certainly an improvement for the people that this is about. I think that is certainly something other than the situation we are in here today, where the Danish People's Party, together with the government, is taking something away.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153635	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153638	So the social democracy approach to this area is that you can only add something, that is, on the political side you can only add something, it can only become more expensive. It is not like making a political assessment of expenditure in one area and saying that in our view we are using some funds incorrectly, these funds can be used better elsewhere in the system or elsewhere in our economy. It is therefore the view of the Social Democrats that we can only add something to the fact that we can only do something more expensive, more expensive is automatically better. I must say, I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153714	In order to add something, it doesn't have to be about money. It is, of course, a question of designing our systems in such a way that they are best for the people it is about, in this case they are the recipients of cash benefits. So it is my view that, in so far as the parties agree that we should go a way, we should do so, whether it costs money or not. After all, this is about us dragging some people, and I think so too, sir. Joachim B. Olsen agrees with the approach of closer to the labour market, and I know that the Liberal Alliance is extremely concerned about how, for example, labour supply. Is. After all, this helps to ensure that we get a greater supply of labour, so the Liberal Alliance should really be completely opposed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153752	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208153808	Thank you, President. As I have said, the draft law here deals with mentor support, and there have been major discussions on how mentor support works. Mentor support can be a very good thing for those who are far from the labour market and have some problems, and there are different ways of using mentor support. In this context, the minimum level of mentor support is reduced to once every four weeks instead of once a week as a minimum. But it has always been the case that it has been the municipalities themselves who, in cooperation with the individual, have decided how much mentor support is needed, and we have also been able to see that there have actually been mentors who have been paid for having contact with cash aid recipients without actually having had quite a lot of contact with them. That too is regrettable. But if you need mentor support, it must be so that the individual can really feel that it is helpful. I mentioned earlier an example of the fact that one had only spoken to the mentor once within three months, and it is again the fact that it is the municipality that decides how much one needs. Then it is said that the minimum must be once a week, but if the municipalities do not live up to it, we can fix once a day or once a week, or once every four weeks, we will be on the same level, when it is the municipalities themselves who decide how much they want to invest in mentor support and how much help the individual needs. I think we can agree that there is a great difference between how much help the individual needs. There are some who can manage with little contact with mentors, while others need to have a mentor around them all the time, and the municipalities still have the opportunity to give the individual the mentor contact that is needed. As I see it, it is a change in mentor support in that in future mentors should be more targeted at those who really need it. It should not be that the mentor has contact with the individual once a week or once every four weeks, but it should be that the mentors have contact with the individual when needed. And when the individual needs help, it must of course be the case that he can get a mentor, and that is also after this is still gone. So I don't think it's so bad again when this is phased in, and I actually believe that the municipalities today judge whether the individual needs a mentor every day. Some people have that today, and they can have it in the future. Although it is at least once every four weeks, the municipality can still put away a mentor on the individual every single day as they can today. This doesn't change anything. This is just a minimum requirement for the contact the mentor needs for the individual. So basically, I think this is gonna work out. At any rate, we spend a great deal of time unnecessarily on mentors. The mentor support must be given where it can really bear something and where it can really help.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154154	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154157	I have to say that the rapporteur has paddled himself very far out at sea to find an excuse to contribute to this cut. In other words, the fact that the rapporteur has spoken to a couple of cash aid recipients in municipalities who have not complied with the law suddenly becomes an argument for reducing the right for everyone, because that is what is happening. I assume that the rapporteur agreed to introduce the system at the time, because it was targeted at one of the most vulnerable groups of cash benefits recipients, namely those ready for activity. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: how can it help people to enter the labour market, to weaken a tool that is praised by the social workers and other professionals who are close to this? How can it help those people to reduce a right they have in current legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154257	Well, they also have a right to get mentor support with this legislation. What is stated in the draft law is that it goes from the fact that, at least once a week, you have the right to have a mentor available, to the fact that it is now at least once every 14 days. But that does not change the fact that the municipalities can still say: here are some who need mentor support every day. They can still do that. There is no change in that. The only thing that has changed here is that you go from the law to the law once a week to the fact that it has to be once every 14 days. That's really it. But that does not change the fact that the case workers can say to the individual: we believe that you need a mentor once a day or once every other day. They can still do that, and they can still put a mentor on those who need it once a week. It has nothing to do with it. The bill just says that the minimum must be once every 14 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154358	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154400	With that argument, there was no reason at all to introduce the mentoring system, because the municipalities have always had the opportunity to make mentoring arrangements. But now a right was introduced for the unemployed, for a certain, very vulnerable group of unemployed, because all professionals with common sense and understanding of those things have said: take the people in hand. Therefore, there must be a requirement for the municipalities to give it at least once a week. After all, the argument that the municipalities still do so, when you read the rest of the bill, weakens the local authorities' financial capacity to make this scheme and the other schemes dealing with the upskilling and guidance of these vulnerable unemployed. So it's just a big talk out of it. Why not just admit that this is an austerity proposal because there must be some tax relief for the rich in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154450	Now it is not the case that the Danish People's Party is in favour of tax relief for the rich in this country. If tax breaks are to be granted, they must be given at the bottom. But we'll take the discussion with the government on that. I have no ability to imagine that Enhedslisten will actively go in and take responsibility for that part, at least not under this government. I think I'm right about that. However, if you look at the proposal here, you can also see that it needs to be more targeted to be able to get people in education and jobs. It's also part of what's in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154530	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154533	Well, it's really nice. And then I would like to ask, when the Danish People's Party, together with the government, chooses to cut the rights of the people on the edge of the labour market to get help to get closer to the labour market, if the rapporteur believes that in doing this action, more of them will get to work, more of them will be able to get out and get a real job, or if there will be fewer?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154604	I think we can actually agree that there is a great difference between what those who are far from the labour market need from help. Some need to have a mentor; others need to get out to get some employment, they don't need that much mentor support. They're going out for something they can use their hands for. There is a great difference between people, although they are ready for activity and far from the labour market. Not everyone needs a mentor to hang over him. And as I said, the municipalities can still leave with the law here giving them the mentor support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154640	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154642	So the logic here is completely gone for me. For what is happening is that in relation to those who are on the edge of the labour market, those who are having difficulty, those who lack some qualifications to enter the labour market, the government and the Danish People's Party are now playing some of the opportunities for them to be trained and to receive mentor support, from them at least the right to do so. So the rapporteur says: well, then the municipality has the opportunity to help them anyway. However, the government and DF cut the possibility for municipalities to do so because they take the money away from them. You take the money from the municipalities that they need to make the effort that they are no longer forced to do. This isn't connected at all. The only thing that is connected, and I can see that the rapporteur will not respond either, is that you take 400 million. kr. from those who are in trouble and use them for tax relief to the richest.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154730	Well, if you look at the refund in the future, as we are now talking about, then instead of going directly to mentor support, the reimbursement must be taken from the amount available and used to reimburse the costs of activation for some of the groups. Well, I think you should be careful not to make it worse than it is. We can see that there is a large part of the mentoring system that is not being used properly, that is not being used as it should, and that is what is being cut away here. And no matter what is said, you can still get away from the mentor support that is needed for the individual. What the law says here is that it is at least once every 14 days • minimum. The law doesn't say that you can't give mentor support for several days during a 14-day period... but you have to do it at least once every 14 days. Previously, it was at least once a week. This did not mean that support could not be given every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154841	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208154848	Thank you. As you know, the bill we are discussing today is part of the Finance Act. The draft law provides for the targeting of active action in the field of employment. We need to give better priority to our resources and target the money we spend on employment efforts. In this effort, we must be more focused in cooperation with companies in helping the unemployed into the labour market, and that is what is being proposed here in the legislative proposal. The bill consists of three parts. First, a relaxation of the minimum mentoring requirement for vulnerable cash benefits recipients. After all, it has just been debated back and forth, but that means that the minimum requirement for how often the unemployed person should have contact with his mentor is changed from every week to at least every two weeks. The proposal therefore reduces the intensity of the requirement. In the government, we are concerned with using the funds where they do the most good. Therefore, when the effect of the mentor scheme cannot be documented in all areas, we must target the task to those groups where the mentor scheme works. The second part of the bill abolishes state reimbursement of expenditure on other counselling and retraining of the job- and training-ready cash-aid recipients as well as job-ready and openly trained integration benefit recipients outside the integration programme. The third part of the draft law proposes that the separate framework for reimbursement of municipal mentor support should be abolished and that the municipalities' mentor costs should instead be covered by operating costs for activation. The mentoring scheme must help citizens in jobs or education, and we need to link the mentoring system and real jobs much more so that the unemployed get closer to the labour market. Studies point out that enterprise-oriented interventions have the best effect when the unemployed are going to work, and this underlines the importance of working with companies when helping the unemployed into the labour market. Today's draft law ensures that the mentoring system is made more flexible and effective. By reducing the demand for how often the citizen of the mentor scheme should be in contact with his mentor, we give the municipalities more freedom to organise contact based on the individual's need for mentor support. This is an active employment effort and, against this background, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155133	We shall now turn to the brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155139	Thank you, President. The rapporteur now refers directly to the draft law. I have also read it, and I find it difficult to find anywhere where there is any evidence that the efforts that we have jointly made in the agreement we made in 2013 on cash benefits do not work. There are no indications at all that what we intended at that time does not work as it was supposed to. In any case, the rapporteur must tell me and the others what the reason is for saying: we must have something that works. We know that what we agreed at the time works. What is the reason why you suddenly change tracks here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155229	The question is, of course, whether, in the context of what we jointly agreed with each other in 2013, we had specific evidence that a mentor and having contact with a mentor once a week or every 14 days were crucial to the speed with which they entered the labour market. What I can read, for example. In a recent report from the SFI, there is in fact no decisive difference between whether you have a mentor or you do not have a mentor in relation to how quickly you get into the labour market. So the Left is preoccupied with the fact that we are using resources as efficiently as possible. We are already spending 4 billion today. kr. in our employment efforts. I think it is good and sensible that we sometimes look at how we use those resources. And there has then been occasion to give some more freedom to the municipalities in terms of their use of mentors.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155322	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155325	It is very interesting that the rapporteur then refers to the SFI study. It has been made for a period that lies before the agreement that we made came into force, so no one knows that there are at least no studies that show anything about the effect that the things that have been put into effect and the way it has been done have. We believe it because the people we are talking about are the longest off the labour market, they are the ones who have the most difficulty in finding it. You need mentor support. It then seems strange, firstly, that the rapporteur refers to a study that is so old that it points to the actions of the previous government and, secondly, that it does not want to deal with the reality that exists after the agreement we have made has entered into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155411	I am happy to relate to reality, and we have assessed that we can achieve the goal of getting the unemployed to work as soon as possible, and we can do that even if we do these things. We are giving the municipalities some freedom in terms of their organisation of work and also in terms of getting vulnerable recipients of cash benefits quickly into work. Then the question is how to use the mentoring arrangement that we agreed together in 2013, and the Left therefore considers that we will be the longest if we give something more freedom to the municipalities, compared to how often they have contact with the individual unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155448	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155451	Thank you. I can only encourage all those who follow this debate on television to sit down and read the comments on the bill. There is, in fact, a rather more honest approach to it. It is a question of saving 400 million. kr., because it is part of a finance agreement where some tax relief is to be granted to the company owners. That's one reason. The second reason is that, as a matter of fact, one will have a different type of effort from that which was intended for the mentoring system and for the guidance and qualification which one will also reduce. It is clear in the comments that it is instead of this pussy about helping the unemployed and something like that, because wow, we don't have to do that; they just have to go out and work, they have to. We are therefore forgetting that we are talking about a target group that, when the cash benefits agreement was signed, was precisely a target group that could not simply be sent out into business practice and everything because they needed special help. Why are you not being honest when you stand on the platform and stick to what is actually the thinking of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155558	Sir. Finn Sørensen mentions that the unemployed are going to work. I very much agree with that. Here we are talking about vulnerable recipients of cash benefits, and in this way they have the best chance of getting into some active offers and preferably in company practices, wage subsidies, etc. That is, in fact, the best approach to it. If they are not able to do so, the mentoring system can also be used. In other words, there is still room for this. We have just proposed here that the municipalities should be given more flexibility. It is true that this bill totals 400 million. kr. That is also why I mentioned that we spend a total of 4 billion. kr. for an employment effort in Denmark. That is why I think it is reasonable that we should also look at how we use resources. Here it has been estimated that we can actually get the same effort and the same results, perhaps even better results, by spending 400 million. kr. less, but it's not to anyone's detriment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155656	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155659	The rapporteur's arguments are, of course, exactly the opposite of the annex that the government itself has put forward in connection with this draft law, namely what is called the equality assessment. After all, it is clear about the primary target group of the draft law, i.e. the mentoring effort: the target groups are activity-specific recipients of cash assistance or training aid, who have the right and obligation to offer mentor support because they are unable to participate in other active offers under employment law. This is the target group we are talking about here, and it is exactly the help for the target group that you cut down on. It doesn't add up. The rapporteur must admit that. Admit it now; it is about saving, so that there can be some tax relief for business owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155749	I am, in fact, very pleased that, in a financial law, we are able both to add more money to health care and to the elderly area. Here, then, there is one area where we say that, in fact, too little less money can still get a very, very active employment effort away. And in relation to the most vulnerable recipients of cash benefits, the best thing is that they continue to be offered active services, in business practice, and if they are not able to do so, they can receive mentor support. What we are just saying is that we do not make a quite square demand that it should then be given every week. We say that we can give it every 14 days and still achieve the goal that the most vulnerable cash aid recipients will get to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155832	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208155846	Thank you. It is an extremely bad idea to reduce mentor support and opportunities for retraining and guidance for the unemployed. Listen to how the government itself defines the primary target group for the activities we are talking about here. It is activity-specific recipients of cash assistance or training assistance who are entitled and obliged to offer mentor support because they are unable to participate in other active offers under employment legislation. It is a very precise definition of who it was that would be helped by introducing this scheme. There, the introduction of the mentor support scheme gave the right and the obligation to contact at least one weekly with the municipality and a mentor. This is one of the few good things in the cash aid reform that Enhedslisten also praised at the point when it was presented in this Chamber. First of all, it is a right for the unemployed to receive special help and support. In the introduction of the system there was a recognition that here we have a group that is particularly in need of it, rather than the perpetual whip that is otherwise slamming down the backs of the unemployed. But now you want to get rid of this good thing. Why have the conciliation parties not listened to the LO, to the National Association of Local Authorities, which they would otherwise like to listen to no, not when further savings need to be made in the municipalities, excuse the social and labour market managers, Danish Handicap organisations, the Danish Social Advisor Association and the Diabetes Association, all of which highlight the good effect of mentor support and emphasise how important and necessary it is? Excuse me, sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party, I believe that these organisations and their representatives are somewhat closer to what the reality is in the municipalities than the rapporteur is. It has not even made the effort to obtain an independent examination of what the experience of the mentoring system really is. It is also quite wrong to save on counselling and retraining efforts. There is certainly a lot that we say sometimes is stupid activation, but there are also good initiatives on the part of the municipalities, and that is what the large group of cash aid recipients need first and foremost. However, the cuts in reimbursement to the municipalities for the efforts they are making here are a huge saving of 400 million. kr. It will only lead to the municipalities turning down this necessary effort and only with the cheapest possible solutions. But I'm afraid that's the point. If you make the effort to read the comments of the bill, you can see it. It is very clear that instead of all the sensible things, namely to support, guide and train the unemployed, they must be chased out into pointless business practices as free workers. Let us now put on the words that describe reality. It may also happen with the murky ulterior motive that the unilateral use of company practice in relation to a very vulnerable group contains a double saving, namely that which occurs when many of them are unable to carry out the internship with the result that they are then punished by features of the benefit. This serious deterioration in the opportunities for the unemployed to gain the necessary foothold in the labour market comes on top of the massive tightening of the availability obligation laid down in the so-called 'job plan I', namely the reintroduction of the 225-hour rule. We fully agree with the LO, the social workers, Danish Handicap organisations and others. that it will only make it even more difficult for a large group of cash aid recipients to gain a foothold in the labour market. I would also like to add that the cuts in the reimbursement of the municipalities' costs of counselling and retraining are, after all, added to the reimbursement of the benefits themselves, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016. As the LO and FTF pointed out, when we dealt with the reimbursement change in this Chamber, this change will only lead to the municipalities forcing the long-term unemployed and the sick to the lowest possible benefits or to no benefits at all, and that only gets worse by the legislative proposal we are debating today. Unfortunately, these organisations and those of us who are critics in this Chamber speak enough for deaf ears. It has already emerged. The savings are, of course, part of a financial agreement that has a very general purpose and a clear antisocial profile, which is to save on initiatives that can help people at the bottom of society to give tax relief to them at the top. Enhedslisten votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208160315	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208160324	Thank you so much. As I said, this is a proposal which is the result of the financial agreement that has just been concluded. We spend much more in Denmark on active employment than any other country in the world. We use e.g. twice as much as you do in Sweden. The value of the extra billions we spend is infinitely small. The last billions we spend on active employment could be spent much better on, for example. lower taxes and charges which would create jobs for the people who are trying to help in jobs with the active employment effort. We're spending 4 billion. kr. the active employment effort alone for benefit and cash benefits recipients, including mentoring. With this bill, the minimum requirement is changed as to how often cash benefits recipients who cannot participate in other offers should have contact with their mentor. Today the minimum requirement is once a week, in the future it will be once every two weeks. This bill also abolishes the reimbursement of costs of other counselling and retraining for job preparation and obvious training staff. In Danish, this means that the municipalities can no longer cover the costs of everything that does not work. That's very reasonable. Finally, the framework for the mentoring scheme is combined with the framework for the activity. The new framework will be reduced by 146 million. kr. This is a small step in the right direction in terms of reducing expenditure in this area. Together, the proposal provides a saving of 400 million. kr. We can, of course, support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208160514	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208160534	Thank you. The alternative sees this as one of a whole series of deteriorations in the conditions and conditions of the most vulnerable people in this country. It is simply the economic inequality that is breaking through very much. You take from the poor and give to the rich in such a kind of reverse Robin Hood model. The main thrust of this bill is for me to see that vulnerable cash aid recipients are deprived of the opportunity to get mentor help and upskilling to get to work. This is done at the same time as lowering the ceiling on cash benefits in order to pressure vulnerable cash benefits recipients to seek work that often does not exist. This means that the unemployed are being pressured on to look for work while reducing support for finding training and work. Then you call it support for a more business-oriented focus, or you call it targeting the effort. That is to say, you almost talk it up to be an advantage for the unemployed. Quite frankly, I like Joachim B. Olsen's honest, very liberal starting point than I like to make this look like something that benefits the recipients of cash benefits. I am relatively new to the Danish Parliament, so I usually watch the debates on TV, and sometimes I have thought: Do they believe what they are saying? There I think we should be honest and call it an austerity exercise which provides a saving of 400 million. kr., instead of saying that this will benefit the employment effort. The argument for making these savings is that in general, the Minister for Employment claims that there are positive effects of a business-oriented effort, but that there is no evidence of general positive effects of other counselling and upgrading. In the alternative, we have also listened to studies that say otherwise. For example: there is a drawing attempt from the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment from 2012-2013 that shows how many of the 18-29-year-old cash benefits recipients with an affiliated mentor came into work compared to those who did not. Here it turned out that as much as 30%. several of the young people who received a mentor went into training, and that approx. 40% Got a job. I would also like to point out that yesterday in the Landstingsalen here at Christiansborg there was a conference called "Constant Help" terms and opportunities on the edge of the labour market. Here the expert explained the value of mentoring schemes, not least in relation to maintaining people in relation to the labour market and the education market. In the alternative, we have nothing against business-oriented efforts and business-oriented internships. It's one of the best things to get unemployed to work. That is not what we object to. But to call savings of 400 million. kr. for a support for business-oriented focus in the effort we do not buy in the Alternative. The municipalities will be affected financially, and this will ultimately mean that they will have to do less with bad tools. That is why we are opposed to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208160900	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208160911	Thank you, President. I think that the rapporteur, before me and also the Socialist rapporteur, has given a very good account of some of the views we have in the Radical Left. For this bill is about some of the people in our society who most need help to become part of the labour market again. That is what our cash aid reform was about; it had a broad majority behind it. But now the mentor effort is being cut. Like many of the rapporteurs, I have also been out to meet many of the cash aid recipients who have benefited from the mentoring effort and who have just taken it in as one of the things that made them feel that they were seen as individuals and recognised for what they need. There are also a number of other measures that are being turned down and that are about making these people better equipped to get back into the labour market. And that alone to find 400 million. kr., so that some of us can get subsidies for cleaning or new kitchens. We in the Radical Left think this is the wrong priority. It is quite fair if that is what you want, and I also think it is liberating to say it honestly rather. But we think this is the wrong priority. We think it is incredibly important that we continue with the more hand-held employment effort that we set up in the previous government with the reform initiatives, where we see each individual. And that was one of the goals of the mentoring effort. Firstly, we also believe that such comprehensive reforms as we have carried out should allow the measures to work. Secondly, when we have just carried out a reform and it is believed that some of the measures are not working as intended, we are trying to correct them instead of cutting them down. That is why the Radical Left is also opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161124	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161135	The government is engaged in an extremely toxic pinch maneuver. The government will put the cash aid down if 225 hours of work are not achieved and at the same time make it harder for the recipients of cash benefits to actually get to work. The government tightens the requirements for employment and tightens people's feet on their way to work. After all, we hear so often that at some point it will come to the point where companies are in need of labour. There we just have to say that the road is precisely to get more people running into the lanes that end up in jobs. That is why the answer is precisely more guidance for the unemployed and, above all, for the most vulnerable recipients of cash benefits. On the contrary, we must give more help, more education to those citizens who have drawn the very least from the education account of society in advance. There's perspective on that. However, the government's response is to reduce the personal guidance and savings on the reimbursement when the municipalities set in with upskilling. It's not just bourgeois politics, it's a hole in head politics. But when you have to find money for the owners of the biggest houses and the nicest cars, you have to start finding them and the 400 million. kr. change hands from those citizens who are on the edge of the labour market and at the bottom of society to those who have so much in advance. It is actually a very good picture of the government and the social profile of the blue parties, a precise picture, an ugly picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161342	It is not surprising that Conservatives support the bill, which really represents a reduction in employment efforts, where little money is being released for better use elsewhere in society. We do not believe that the employment effort needs to be as expensive as it is in Denmark, and when we see some areas where we think some money can be saved, we are happy to do so. Basically, we do not believe that what is needed is more guidance and more mentors to get people into work. So we think this is a good saving that we wholeheartedly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161437	There are no brief comments. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161447	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the favourable treatment of the bill amending the Act on Active Employment and the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities. As has been outlined in the rapporteur's speeches, the aim of the changes from 1 January 2016 is to ensure the targeting of employment efforts. At the same time, it is intended to support a more business-oriented focus in the effort, because business-oriented efforts have the best effect. In contrast, there is no evidence of general positive effects of other guidance and qualification. The changes mean that the minimum level of mentoring for vulnerable cash benefit recipients and recipients of training assistance is relaxed. This allows municipalities to organise the offer more flexibly and prioritise mentor support where the impact is greatest. In addition, the reimbursement of other counselling costs and the upgrading of the strongest target groups will be abolished, which will strengthen the incentive for municipalities to launch business-oriented services for the target group. The combination of a framework for mentoring efforts and interventions also means that the municipalities will be able to give greater priority to interventions tailored to local conditions and the needs of the individual. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161635	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161640	Thank you. Now I tried to ask the rapporteur of the Left when he was on the floor to get some proof of what the Minister also says, namely that business-oriented action is the best. We do not in fact disagree on this, but what is happening here is that mentor support is being cut and that the municipalities' resources for making other efforts are being removed. Where on earth does the Minister find the evidence that this is a very good tool? Where does the minister find it? Because that is not clear from the draft law, and this is not clear from the remarks, and the rapporteur of the Left could not answer it either, but perhaps the Minister can.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161727	There is no reason to hide the fact that this bill represents a priority for some economy and a targeting of our employment efforts. With the elements we are talking about here, what is crucial is that the municipalities' ability to make local priorities towards the different groups of unemployed people they are working with becomes the best possible, but it is clearly within a single narrower state reimbursement framework in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161819	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161823	That is a strange way of conducting civil policy: we want to do better, it needs to work even better, we need to get more people going, but, incidentally, we are taking the money. That is a clear line of thought, one might say. But I also understand from the Minister, who is quite honest, that this is a bottom-up task. It is a bottom-up task for the Minister and for the parties behind this bill to find some money, because some money needs to be spent to give some tax relief somewhere else. You can just say that plainly instead of making all sorts of excuses for why this should be carried out at all. After all, you do not care if you get more in employment at all, if more people can get closer to the labour market. It's all about finding some money for tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161908	No, it's not about the last one at all. This is about making our employment efforts more effective. Our employment efforts in Denmark are very expensive and have proved very clearly not to be effective for the people affected by long-term unemployment, for those who have problems returning to the labour market. Here we seek to give the municipalities a better framework, better incentives, better opportunities to assess which tools they find best possible in the specific situation of the individual unemployed. At the same time, however, major reprioritisations are being made, also in the light of the entire reimbursement reform, so that the municipalities have a freer framework and better opportunities to prioritise. They are given the opportunity, on the basis of their own choices, to do what they think is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208161957	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162002	Thank you. Oh, now I think the minister should stop talking about it. It is therefore not possible to give the municipalities better tools in the employment effort by taking 400 million. kr. from them. I mean, what's it like? You don't make anyone believe that. Back to it, whether there is any factual basis whatsoever for this proposal that has been put forward. I'd like to follow up on sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen's question: Where is the evidence that business practices or so-called business-oriented efforts are the best means of dealing with the group we are talking about here and for which the mentoring scheme is targeted? In the Minister's own words, the target group is active recipients of cash assistance or training aid, who have the right and the obligation to offer mentor support because they are not able to participate in other active offers The Minister himself has defined the target group as a target group that is not exactly where the evidence is that business-oriented offers are the best means in relation to the group we are talking about now, which will weaken the mentor's efforts towards?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162112	I am aware that there is no evidence that business-oriented action is the best response to the particular target group in which the municipalities are given a freer framework for working ment mentor support, since it is precisely in this proposal that it is a group that has difficulty in participating in other activities. So here is the main content, that the municipalities get a freer framework so that they can do what they think is right in relation to the group.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162139	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162142	I would like to say to the Minister that the municipalities already have that opportunity today. And the tool given to the municipalities by the mentor scheme in the form agreed in the cash benefits reform was such that the unemployed person had the right to be held in the hands of a mentor at least once a week, because everyone agreed that it was a good idea. But thank you for admitting that there is no scientific evidence that business-oriented offers are something that helps the group we are talking about. In other words, we are legislating into thin air. So the next question is: where is the analysis of the experience of the mentoring system, which is now going to drop down? Is it real? I don't think it does. I can't ask again, so I'm just gonna have to conclude unless the minister can disconnect with that investigation, and I don't think the minister can, because then we'd probably have heard about it. That's another proof that the whole argument you're building up doesn't hold up. It is something else that is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162243	Nor do I believe that there is any evidence that mentor support as such in relation to this group has a major impact. But what is after all the aim of this within a priority framework is to give the municipalities the freedom to do so together with the individual unemployed, which they together think is the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162302	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162310	Thank you. Sometimes it can be difficult for us politicians to get out in reality and see how the things we do work out there, and also get inspiration on how to knit it together. Therefore, there are also organisations that move their conferences in here at Christiansborg. For example: yesterday, in the Landstingshall, there was a major conference on cash benefits • Constant help - conditions and opportunities on the edge of the labour market, it was said. At that conference it was precisely these issues that were discussed by people, practitioners and experts, and I noticed that there was not a single civil politician present. I would like to ask the Minister there, and it is of course not to oblige the Minister in relation to all the bourgeois politicians: why is it that no one from the government appears in such a situation? And if it does not even help that citizens and organisations move their events right in here to inform us directly, what should be done almost as a citizen and as an organization to get us politicians to talk?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162409	Our aim is to find an employment policy which is significantly better for the people who have been abandoned in recent years. There has been an excessive influx of the long-term unemployed, which has been far too high in long-term unemployment regardless of very, very high costs. It has been chosen to leave the municipalities responsible for this and we have made a reimbursement reform that gives the municipalities the right incentives. Now the municipalities must also have room to do the right things in relation to the individual, and they will get that, among other things. by not having to hold conversations that may both they and the individual citizen find are meaningless because they take place too often.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162450	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162453	Yes, but will the Minister answer what the citizen should do to bring information into Christiansborg when not a single government politician appears when such a large conference is held?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162509	The conference or not, as employment policy is developing in Denmark today, it is very much evidence-based. And I think it is true that political decisions are being taken which are being evaluated and followed up. We are looking within a main framework that is built on the fact that it is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility here. There is evidence that for the strong unemployed it is the enterprise-oriented effort that counts. Then we need to find the tools that are the most effective in each situation, and that means that the municipalities also need to be entitled to carry out these specific assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162545	Thank you. There is another brief comment, by Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162551	It is very good to talk about the strongest unemployed, as has just been said. It is such a keyword when you are now a social rapporteur, for those we are talking about in terms of mentoring are then part of the other end. And the Minister nods, because that is how it is, for it is the allerally most exposed group, and that is that it is a group that is in the intersection between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Employment. That is why, as a social rapporteur, I have to ask the Minister for Employment the simple question: what does the government intend to replace? In other words, because we go back to the '00s, it was the case that in the field of employment there was nothing for this group of people. Now the government chooses not to shave it completely away, but one chooses to take a very large amount of money. Is it because the government wants to go back to the state that was before? Or what's the direction of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162640	The direction is that, in the specific situation, the municipalities will have the best possible tools to work with in their own judgement. That is why, looking at these three proposals together, various biased incentives are being removed. And on the basis of the reimbursement reform, the municipalities have a very obvious incentive to do what they think is the right thing to do in relation to the citizen, whom I agree with here is part of a group of weak citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162710	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162713	The whole thing about standing and talking about the best possible tools is very fine, but it's a saving proposal. I think that, as a government, we should continue to do so, that is to say that it is a proposal for savings. In other words, the Minister himself said earlier that this is a matter of priority. Yes, it is a matter of priority. In the Social Democratic Party, we are of the opinion that we must continue to invest in people, and those who use the mentoring system are some of the citizens of our society who are most at risk. It is citizens who have combinations of mental disorders, abuse and long-term absenteeism from the labour market, etc. etc. And that is the group that goes in and cuts the benefits to. I mean, in our optics and that's what we did while we were in government, this is a group that needs to be done a lot more for. This is a group where, if you invest in them, it also provides socio-economic returns on a large number of other budgets. In other words, both human and economic, it is a very good idea to invest in people. This is exactly the opposite direction the government is going in here. And I cannot hear the Minister saying that an alternative tool is being made available to this very vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162816	No, only the alternative tool is provided, which the individual municipality considers to be the right tool in relation to the individual citizen. This is not, of course, a legislative proposal which limits the possibilities for the individual citizen. These are three elements of a single legislative proposal which gives municipalities a freer framework, more balanced incentives, and that is correct within a narrower reimbursement framework than we have seen in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162843	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162902	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208162920	Thank you for the floor, President. I shall start by saying that I am in and come from an area in which the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party receive almost as many votes as it is today. The Danish People's Party gets a lot of votes from the older members of our electorate in particular. During the election campaign I visited a wide variety of nursing homes, etc., and in many places such a fine brochure could be found on the tables around which there was a small message from the chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, where he writes to the elderly: Our older fellow citizens must be offered a good and secure framework for their old age. No elderly people in Denmark should suffer economic hardship. We have a lot to thank the older generation for, and they must be rewarded with a high folk pension, a well-functioning home care, an efficient health care sector, and finally hold on to a rich selection of different types of housing. Yours sincerely, Kristian Thulesen Dahl, President of the Danish People's Party. As the debate on this bill today hopefully will cement, it is the hollow word from the Danish People's Party. We are on a rather serious business here today, in my opinion. The legislative package that we are now discussing is a violent attack on the weakest pensioners living in elderly homes, and it is also an emphasis that a number of the agreements concluded under the 2016 Finance Act are socially deeply skewed, and this is not least a fatal failure on the part of the Danish People's Party. The bill we are discussing today contains three main elements: a lower adjustment of the limits of the housing allowance, the gradual abolition of the calculation technical supplement to the rent, so that the housing allowance is calculated forward-looking on the basis of the actual rent, and a ceiling on the eligible rent in elderly dwellings allocated after 2020. So the next 10 years will be cut by about 1 billion. kr., and the saving will continue to increase until the housing benefits, as we know it, are completely hollowed out. And the consequences for the elderly are also quite quickly felt. A pensioner couple loses in 5 years, by 2020, up to DKK 8,000. a year, when the package is fully phased in, and up to 200,000 folk pensioners will be affected by the deterioration of the housing benefits of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance. It is by far the weakest elderly who receive housing benefits, which are therefore affected by the deterioration. The reasons for making these marked deteriorations for the weakest of our grandparents are not at all present in the bill, because the truth is that the poorest pensioners have to pay for someone to buy a cheaper luxury car, get the villa built out and get a top tax relief in the spring. That's the truth. The government is trying to justify the lower housing benefits by increasing the number of beneficiaries of housing benefits by 13%. Since 2001. But the reality is that during the same period, the number of pensioners who can apply for housing benefits increased by 18%. This means that it is a lower proportion of pensioners who actually receive housing benefits in 2015 than in 2001. Another justification sought by the parties to the contract is that the average housing allowance per year. the recipient has actually increased by 28%. However, it is not mentioned in one word that, as part of general housing policy, nursing homes have been modernised during the same period, so that old, outdated nursing homes have been replaced by nursing homes, and the elderly in the nursing homes now have to pay for this. The criticism is also to take and feel in the consultation responses received by the Danish Parliament. The Elders case directly asks us not to adopt the bill, and all the elements get a tough criticism along the way, including the fact that there is not a single example in the bill of the consequences for the elderly in nursing homes. Denmark's Owners' Associations call it unreasonable and antisocial. Denmark's General Housing warns against the fact that many folk pensioners may end up in a situation where you cannot pay the rent. Danish Handicap organisations call it unworthy to push the economy for older people with disabilities more than it already is. So these are serious words that this housing allowance package brings along the way, and in the Social Democrats we share the criticism all the way through. After all, it seems as if the parties to the contract have forgotten that the housing allowance is a social benefit, a benefit targeted at pensioners with high housing costs in relation to their income, and those who most often have it are the elderly who are in nursing homes. It is people who throughout their lives have done their duty before they have demanded their right. The chasm in this is to feel and feel. It comes as no surprise to me and to the rest of the Social Democratic Party that the Liberal Alliance, the Left and the Conservatives consider it reasonable that the weakest elderly should be involved in financing tax cuts, lower car taxes, a housing job scheme and a lower inheritance tax. But while the Liberal Alliance is toasting champagne over precisely the policy of distribution, it is perhaps worth asking the Danish People's Party if they feel it is fair to the elderly. Because before the formation of the government, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl that the Danish People's Party would have more influence by not going into government with the Left. But what has been gained from this in the Danish People's Party? Nothing, absolutely nothing. As the Folketing can clearly hear, we in the Social Democratic Party do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163500	The rapporteur has just to stand still, because there is a very appropriate brief remark from Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163506	Well, it's because sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen spoke a lot about the weak elderly being hit. But I guess when sir... Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen has read the bill, which I am sure he has, so he also knows that it says that there are approx. 93,000 of the weakest elderly, who get a plus out of it and are not affected by changes in housing benefits. You're actually gonna get more out of this bill. I'll give you 1,200 kroner. extra a year out of it when it is fully phased in. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also mentions that those living in nursing homes and nursing homes are affected, but if Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen reads an answer given by the Minister for Employment to question 84, alm. Mr Sisse Marie Welling, from the SF, will see that it says that citizens living in nursing homes cannot receive housing benefits, as nursing homes are a form of housing which is not covered by the Housing Support Act. In other words, they are not being hit, and thus Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen made false statements from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163619	First of all, I refer to the consultation answers given by both the Elders Case and Danske Handicap organisations. I am happy to sign for if some have succeeded in doing this less socially wrong than what was intended in the first place, but this does not compensate for the overall social imbalance in the overall legislative proposal and the significant savings of 1 billion. kr. over the next 10 years, money being taken out of the system. The second was that I referred to a nursing home that was converted into nursing homes. I know very well that this only concerns nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163652	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163655	I understand perfectly, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, for it can be difficult to communicate this text of the law, and of course it also requires some more calculations. But you have to keep in mind when Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen mentions that a folk couple loses DKK 8,000. a year that there are nuances in it. It is as if what is going to appear is that it is all that loses DKK 8,000. And that is precisely where the social imbalance comes in. Account has been taken of the fact that the most disadvantaged get more out of it, and then it becomes a few crowns that you lose per month. For example: There are 16,000 who lose 40 kroner. a month. Well, it's just that bias in what makes it look like it's the big thing, like it's all losing these 7,000 to 8,000 thousand dollars a month or a year, sorry, a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163750	But we agree, I hope, that over the next 10 years we will save 1 billion. kr. On these benefits. Then I understand that there is a big difference between how many people are going to pay the bulk of the feast and how many people might get off with the skin on their noses. We also agree that housing benefits are, after all, a social benefit granted to elderly people living in housing which is more expensive than their income. In other words, it must be said from the outset that the people who receive these benefits are people who already need it. Then there may be some who need more help, and some who need less help. Nevertheless, the end result is the removal of 1 billion. kr. from helping the weakest elderly in this society to using them to fund all sorts of benefits for the wealthiest. That's what's real.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163843	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163848	When you choose politically to support a certain form of consumption, for example. is it not a good principle that this aid is designed so that it follows the trend in prices and not the trend in wages? When you choose to support a particular type of consumption, is it a sensible principle that the development of aid follows price developments, which are linked to consumption, rather than overall wage developments in society? Is that not a sensible principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208163933	But the thing is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that the development when you are older, when you are up at the age that you are also so weak that you even need to live in a foster home and receive these services, makes that there are a large number of things that you can read in the consultation answers • extra costs associated with it, while the rents in many of these nursing homes are becoming increasingly higher all the time, and they will continue to get higher in the future because it costs something to set up these facilities. You just can't hide the fact that you remove 1 billion. kr. over the coming years, which are then spent on everything else, and that the living conditions of many of these older people are significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164014	I should just like to point out that we do not use direct indictments from Parliament's platform. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164020	Well, it is quite true that some money is being saved on this, but I would ask the rapporteur to deal with a principle, a principle of how to give support. And I am actually surprised that the rapporteur responds as he does, because this is a principle which the previous government itself adopted. In other words, the adjustment of rates was changed so that the trend of transfer incomes was more closely linked to price developments than to wage developments. It is quite the same principle that is used here. Apparently, this is a huge disaster when you do it, and we are on the brink of the social mass grave. It is quite incomprehensible to me if we are merely based on a principle which the previous government also thought was sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164104	Social democracy has the principle that we do not want to cost everyday life for real, very many older people who have spent a lifetime in the labour market, and that we also want them to have a dignified last time while they are among us, and a decent accommodation that they can actually pay, and that they actually have a life where there are still some experiences for them and their loved ones. That is the socialist principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164125	The next brief remark is from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164130	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur says that we in the Danish People's Party did not get anything out of the Finance Act for 2016, and I just have to say that it is not true at all. We got through so much and put our fingerprints, among other things. a dignified billion for the municipalities, which, by and large, helps to ensure plus growth after several years of minus growth; 2.4 billion. kr. For health, we must, among other things. reduce the overlay. So we got so much and it's just a few things that I mention here... fingerprints on the Finance Act that we're happy with. Could we have had more? Yeah, we could, if it was that there had been more money in the box. The problem was that the previous government painted a glossy picture of what the economic situation actually looked like. There was less money in the box and thus also less money for the really good things. But the housing allowance is on the wall today, and I would like to ask the rapporteur, now that the rapporteur criticises the fact that 93 000 people or households are getting more in housing benefits in the future: is that something you want to roll back if you regain power?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164244	Of course, I am not going to judge whether the Danish People's Party thinks that they have got a lot out of the Finance Act. I think that, with the naked eye at least, I can see that it is very difficult to see what has been achieved. The rapporteur mentions what she calls a dignified billion. It has come to light far and wide that in reality it is just the very same money that the then SR government already invested in the elderly. I would therefore like to invite the rapporteur to take a walk with me on Amager and ask many of the elderly, whom I know and at least know have voted for the Danish People's Party, whether they are satisfied with the cross. It is not true either, as the rapporteur says, that there was no more money and that all the money was spent. You've just chosen to spend it on something else. They have been chosen to use them on a housing job scheme that does not create enough jobs, if you ask me at least, to compensate for what money is spent on it. It has been decided to spend a lot of money relaxing registration fees on cars and, in particular, luxury cars. You have chosen to spend a lot of money on savings, so you can share some top tax concessions by spring. There was plenty of money. This is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164348	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164350	Well, one has to say that after several years with the SR government, where several municipalities have experienced negative growth, we get plus growth from 2016 and it is the Danish People's Party that can raise their hands above their heads and say: Yes, that is what we are doing, among other things. Got through in the Finance Act. It's just too bad that, unfortunately, it's not a priority from Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's party, because then you would have done it while you had the power. But I would like to ask once again: when it is that you are unhappy that 93 000 households receive an increase in housing benefits in the future, is it something that you are so unhappy about that you want to roll it back?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164431	The rapporteur is quite wrong. We are not at all sorry that there are some elderly people who get what the rapporteur calls a dignified billion. We were thus helping to give it back in the time of the SR government. There was an elderly billion, and it is, in fact, the same money, and I am very surprised that the rapporteur chooses to regard it as a great victory, that he has managed to maintain some subsidies for older people, which were already given in the lifetime of the SR government. No one is too sorry if somebody should end up getting another hundred kroner note in housing benefits. What I am arguing for is that I think that older people should have security for their economy, that they should not be insecure in the last few years, that they should not be insecure about whether they can pay the rent or whether they can afford pleasures next to them, and that is what the overall proposal does, namely that it significantly reduces housing benefits so that very many people will experience significant deterioration in their income.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164530	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208164546	Thank you for that, President. I'm ready for the next hour's debate here. There are several things in this housing bill. If you look at some of what is being changed, you can see that this is the strange calculation technical supplement to the rent, where a supplement of DKK 6,400 is added. in addition to the cost of housing for elderly dwellings. It is not money that the elderly get, but it is some money that is added, and then you calculate the housing benefits from there. It's gonna be so downhill, so it's gonna be all gone by 2020. It is then also made in such a way that it is the price index that governs the regulation of the housing service, and we really think that is reasonable enough. It is also the principles that have been used in the past that it is the development of prices that must guide the development of what can be given in grants If we then look at the housing benefits scheme and such, we can see that the limit for the annual housing costs is lifted, as it cannot be applied to persons who are entitled to housing benefits if they are assigned by the municipal council to a free-care home, an elderly home, an ordinary home or an unaided private residence. The ceiling introduced only for newly-listed persons for free-care accommodation, old-age accommodation, etc. from 2020, as I said, only applies to instructions after 2020. But if we stick to looking at what really matters, then it's the cut in housing benefits plus the upward adjustment in housing benefits for a great deal. In this context, it is true that we have looked at the social aspects of housing benefits, so that the most disadvantaged get a plus on housing benefits. These are typically those who only have the folk pension plus ATP. You actually get more out of this every year. That is to say, there is something like this. 93,000 households with a boost of approx. 100 kroner. a month. And now I might as well take all of them... 16,000... who lose 40 kroner. a month. There are 43,000 households that lose 131 kroner. a month, and 13,000 households losing DKK 208. a month; 10,000 households losing DKK 290. a month; 9,500 households losing DKK 375. a month; 12,000 households losing DKK 455. a month; 65,000 households losing DKK 535. a month, and 12,000 households losing DKK 660. a month. It's just the circling numbers. Therefore, there may be some changes in it when it all gets figured out. It should then be remembered that when you look at what is being said and you talk about elderly homes and nursing homes, it is thus the case that those living in nursing homes are not covered by the Housing Support Act. They're not covered by this legislation. We are talking about old-age housing, and there are also early-retirement pensioners on the old-age scheme who receive housing benefits. In the new scheme after 2003, early retirement pensioners receive housing insurance, and this is not covered by the bill either. So you have to look at what's being done in this connection. There is a tendency for you to use the highest numbers to throw out. That's what sounds most violent. This is also what the newspapers do; they take the highest figures and say that now there are 200,000 retired people who lose about DKK 8,000. a year. No, there isn't. It's differentiated. It's not like they all lose the same thing. But the papers want those numbers. That's what they like best, and that's what you can do most scaremongering with. One simply forgets the promise made to the most disadvantaged pensioners, namely that they are actually getting more out of it. Now the time is running out, but I have to say that it has also been agreed in this regard that the government should talk to KL and discuss the price of housing, because they have been turned up in price many times when they have been modernised. If the government does not succeed in getting through with the municipalities, then we in the Danish People's Party have not committed ourselves to this any longer than for 2016. That is to say, when we come to the 2017 Finance Act, we can demand changes in the rules if the government fails to comply with what has been agreed, namely that they must work to bring down the prices of housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165113	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I was absolutely surprised at the rapporteur's speech. Because I thought that when it was the Danish People's Party that wanted to take care of pensioners' conditions that is at least what we hear and especially belonged to in the election campaign... you'd be worried about some parts of this bill, for example. the consequence that the government itself describes there is that the calculation premium is being cut off and that it disappears, where the government itself says it estimates that approx. 132,000 pensioners on average will lose 3,780 kroner. a year after tax. That's a deterioration, isn't it? Or is there no deterioration in this bill against the elderly? Can't we just get a little clear on this? I thought that was rather unclear in the rapporteur's speech. I thought you'd have to stand there and apologize and stuff. However, it seems to us that it is a very good proposal that thousands of pensioners should be given a small amount of available money as a result of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165216	Well, I haven't said at all that this is a very good proposal. I do not think that can be seen from the minutes. I certainly do not hope so. Because it is not something that we in the Danish People's Party think is a very good proposal if we are to look at it that way. And if sir... Finn Sørensen had listened, he would have heard that precisely in connection with these deteriorations I mentioned how many, it was that lost an amount in the housing allowance. I mentioned an amount per year. month, i.e. how much you could lose. For example: I mentioned that there were 9,540 households that lost DKK 375. a month. I wrote it all up. I hope so, sir. Finn Sørensen heard; otherwise I will repeat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165259	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165301	Well, then we know the Danish People's Party again. Then you apologize anyway and say that there are some improvements for some and that you are therefore living with the fact that there are some deteriorations for some others. However, we have just had the Socialist rapporteur on the floor and he said very clearly that the Socialists are voting against this bill. And of course it is not because they are opposed to some having a slightly better regulation of DKK 1,200. a year, of course, not that it does but because they are opposed to all the deteriorations that lie in it. Then my question to the Danish People's Party is: will the Danish People's Party then take advantage of the alternative majority that is emerging here? For the Enhedslisten also votes against for the same reasons, and I am sure other parties will do the same. Then we have a clear majority to remove the clear deterioration for pensioners in this bill. Will the Danish People's Party take advantage of that majority in the further examination of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165354	Funny, it was the case under the previous government that if you put Mr. Finn Sørensen the same question, there was certainly no commitment from the Enhedslisten that an alternative majority would be used against the then government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165408	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165411	Well, it may be that I'm just the one who still has to translate some of the North Jutland, and then I'm sorry, but it sounded glorious to me, as if Mr. Bent Bøgsted was trying to sell this as something social. In fact, we have been sharing committees for relatively many years, and usually we have a similar sense of what is social and what is not social. And that is why I have to ask whether this, for example. falls within Mr. Bent Bøgsted's top ten over social suggestions, just to come up with some standard. Is this top ten over social things you can do? Because then I completely misunderstood what that word covers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165456	Well, I didn't say it does. I just said in my reply to Mr. Finn Sørensen said it wasn't a proposal we were so excited about. Then I mentioned that there was a social distribution in that we had got through, that there are 93,000 households that get more in housing benefits ■ it is the most disadvantaged. It's the social part of this. Then it is true that 183,000 people are losing something in this connection, and I also mentioned the figures, and that is not something we in the Danish People's Party are excited about. The money we are talking about here has then gone back into that dignified billion, or whatever to call it, to the area of the elderly. So this isn't a bill we're so excited about. We negotiated an agreement on housing benefits, which is in the Finance Act, and that has been negotiated by the Finance Law rapporteurs, and the agreement that has been reached is, of course, clear. But it's not like we're really excited about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165607	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165610	Then it's just that I don't quite understand why you're not voting against it. We need a vote here in the Parliamentary Chamber... one vote. It is not the case that the Danish People's Party has set itself up at a negotiating table where there was already a majority and then tried to do things better. I can really appreciate that you do. We do that a lot. But there is not a majority without the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party sits on the crucial mandates in relation to this and then chooses to take the money straight out of the pockets of the elderly, no matter how you try to cover it up. I just wanted to say that someone wrote on my facebook page earlier today: DF does not stand for Dansk Folkeparti, it stands for daily deteriorations. I can sign that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165653	Well, if I look back in time, that's what you do sometimes, especially at the age I've come at, then I remember what it was like under the previous government. That's where we heard the same thing all the way through. If you could just get someone to skip, you could knock down the government. And then there was nothing about the Social Democrats supporting parties wanting to overthrow the government, regardless of what it came to at the time. It doesn't play that way. When you enter into an agreement on a financial law, you stand by it. The Social Democratic Party has also had a great deal to say that the Danish People's Party does not take responsibility for anything. Then we'll take responsibility for this finance bill and get into the agreements that are being made, it's for good and bad, it is, and then we'll be told that it's too bad that we take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165736	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165743	Thank you. Now I remember several situations with the previous government, where we tried to get an alternative majority to stand with the Danish People's Party and where they rejected. But we can take that another day. That was among other things. in the area of unemployment benefit. When the government itself says that many pensioners in ordinary rental homes will simply have less to live for when it comes to the calculation supplement and they say that it is 132,000 pensioners who on average lose 3,780 kroner. a year, Mr. Bent Bøgsted did not see that this is a rather serious deterioration for those who do not have too much in advance? I have also traveled around with the Danish People's Party candidates in the election campaign and listened to us so that we should free the elderly. But 132,000, isn't that a pretty big group? 3,780 kr. You save a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208165836	Yeah, that's about 300 kroner. a month. That is absolutely correct. It's such a circling number. I just can't help but wondering here that sir... Christian Juhl says he's been trying to get an alternative majority. Well, where there was the possibility of an alternative majority under the previous government and where Enhedslisten then backed out, it would be the same situation as here, where it meant that a finance law could not then be passed so that the government overturned. We tried that once, and it was clearly stated from the Enhedslisten that it certainly did not. You don't knock down a government. It's the same situation here. If we don't make an agreement on a finance bill, the government will overturn it. Mr. Christian Juhl quite well, and that's not how you play. Honestly, may I say to Mr. Simpson? Christian Juhl, if you sit as a support party to a government, you go in and take responsibility. Nor was it all that Enhedslisten got through that Enhedslisten was just enthusiastic about under the previous government. At least I think it wasn't. Then Enhedslisten also took responsibility for something, but the previous government was not overturned. Of course, the Danish People's Party does not do that here either. Now we have a financial agreement, and then we are not standing here on the platform saying that we will then jump from it all. Of course we don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170000	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170004	I can assure you, sir. Bent Bøgsted that the previous government would have been overthrown if they made such a proposal and our votes were crucial. There is no doubt about that at all. I think he has to look for a long time in the archives to find a situation in which we vote for an average loss of DKK 3,780 by 132 000 pensioners. And he's gonna have to look really, really long to help say that that money is gonna be used to ease the ground for the big villas and lighten the tax on luxury cars. I can guarantee that, sir. Bent Bøgsted too. Where is the social profile in Danish People's Party policy? There is no excuse for another government to have done something bad too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170049	No, I don't. But now it is the Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats who are trying to say that I should skip and vote against this, and in the Enhedslisten's perspective we should knock the government over on this. We in the Danish People's Party have received a lot of criticism in the past that we did not take responsibility. Now we go in and take responsibility. And in this agreement, there are 93,000 people who get more housing benefits than they did before. I'm sorry, sir. Christian Juhl easy, because it doesn't mean much. It's more the thing about losing something. We also acknowledge in the Danish People's Party that you lose something here. Like I said, we're not happy about this. That's also why we've got the agreement that if the government doesn't agree on cheaper housing for the elderly, we can take this up again in the 2017 Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170145	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170151	The rapporteur makes a lot of chatter and talks about taking responsibility. Take responsibility! This bill means that thousands of real people, folk pensioners, and it's not among the rich in the villas, it's quite ordinary folk pensionists with a modest private pension payment • lose thousands of kroner a year, i.e. an important part of their monthly income. That is the result. Then you can talk about responsibility, then you can talk about what the previous government has done. It is people who have voted on the basis of trust in the Danish People's Party and who now need to have taken money out of their pocket, so that you can share in distributing tax rebates to the expensive sports cars together with the Liberal Alliance. Did you say once during the campaign that that's what you wanted to do? Have you prepared a single national pensionist for that is what the Danish People's Party wanted to use their votes for? Then the rapporteur says he is not enthusiastic. Well, I'm glad to hear that. But can the rapporteur just confirm that if the Danish People's Party had had the courage to do so, it would have been possible to enter the Finance Minister's office on the first day of the negotiations and say: this must come out of the proposal before the Danish People's Party can support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170305	I am not going to be able to say what has been said during the budget negotiations, because I was not there, and therefore I cannot say exactly what has just been said. Nor do I believe that Pelle Dragsted will ever get so close to the financial law negotiations. I have my doubts about that with the approach of Enhedslisten. But let's just leave it alone. In this connection, the Danish People's Party has agreed on a housing allowance package in which we have ensured that 93,000 households receive more benefits. Then there are a number of households that get less than yes and I mention again: There are 16,120 that get 40 kr. less a month. There are approx. 43,000, who gets 131 kroner. less a month. There are 13,980, who gets 208 kroner. less a month. There's 10,690 that gets 290 kroner. less a month. There's 9,540 that gets 375 kroner. less a month. But I haven't hidden those numbers. We've told you what it is. But Mr. Pelle Dragsted doesn't want to talk about someone getting better. That's not the point. But I also know that sir... Pelle Dragsted will only be there if you can give something and never take anything, only from others.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170427	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170428	I can promise you I'd like to take something. I would like to take something from some of the people in our society who have the most, unlike the Danish People's Party, who hunt with those who have the least. It's unsympathetic, and it's an electoral deception of dimensions that you're out in here. And I can promise you one thing: I have actually been quite close to the Finance Act negotiations as an advisor to the Enhedslisten, and we had never, ever, ever accepted a Finance Act that contained such an attack on Danish folk pensioners, ever. You should be ashamed of yourselves in the Danish People's Party for adding votes to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170502	I must point out once again that we are not using direct indictments in the Assembly. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170511	Well, with the comment that came from sir... Pelle Dragsted, I don't think it's worth answering Mr. Pelle Dragsted's question. It's not when it gets so personal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170520	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170527	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted says that the Danish People's Party takes responsibility. I also have respect for that, because I think that all parties should take responsibility when they are in the situation. What I'm just thinking about is that it's kind of a good thing that there are no more items on the agenda today where the Danish People's Party has to take responsibility. What we can see here and also see under the previous paragraph is that it is really only about one thing. It is about cuts and savings that the government needs to give some tax relief to others. We have savings in relation to the weakest recipients of cash aid, and now we are faced with savings in relation to the weakest pensioners. I understand that is the new style in the Danish People's Party. You choose to round-shave among those who are the weakest. Or what? Couldn't the Danish People's Party have just said no? Wouldn't it have been taking responsibility, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170625	We could have said no to the entire Finance Act, and then we would have overturned the government, and then we would have had the wish scenario, as Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen would like us to have a new government, or that elections had been held for that matter. Of course you could. But we didn't. We entered into the negotiations on the Finance Act and worked to get some of what the Danish People's Party wants. In this connection, we did not get through as much as we would have liked. Of course. But when you look at what's here, it's just that because we're not so excited about this, we made the deal that the government has to talk to KL about getting the price of an apartment put down. This means that if the housing falls in price, what the elderly lose will be smaller. That's the way it works. We have seen examples of the fact that when you renovate homes you have taken the most expensive option, because when there is a housing allowance, it does not mean much. You just turn the price up on everything. What the government needs to talk to KL about is that we get a more normal price range. If we do not succeed, we will only be bound for 2016, and then we will be able to demand amended rules in relation to the Finance Act for 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170740	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170742	It's exciting, because it's birds on the roof we're talking about here. Now our rapporteur brought the fine little brochure from the election campaign, and it says loud and fine: we will do that for old Denmark. In other words, for the elderly in Denmark. And when you read the booklet, you probably think, that's a really good promise. But it has turned out that, instead of being a promise, it has been a threat. What happens happens with the votes of the Danish People's Party • The Danish People's Party, which says that they want to do something for the old people in Denmark • And what you do for the old people is to cut back on the benefits that the elderly receive. What the Danish People's Party has got in return is a promise that you might want to talk to the National Association of Municipalities about perhaps putting down some rents. And, by the way, Sigurd Barrett has been put on the Finance Act. That is what has come out of the promise or the threat that has been given to the old.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170841	What has come out of it is that we have at least ensured that the disadvantaged receive more in housing benefits. We have also ensured that the government should, and this may not be the case, talk to KL about the housing price in order to get cheaper housing. And if we fail, we also have an agreement that we are not bound for more than 2016 and then we can demand the rules changed again in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170905	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208170910	Thank you for the floor. I understand perfectly well that the rapporteur says that one is not prepared to overthrow the government, since one is now its parliamentary basis and so on. I can understand that. Nor have I ever imagined that there was any alternative welfare majority at all. So it's just an emphasis on it. But there is an equation that I find difficult to get up and I would like to ask the rapporteur about it. The Danish People's Party will be the absolute largest party in the elections back in June among the bourgeois parties. You are even very aware of this because you say that you do not want to go into government because you assume to have more influence in that way. One of the major concerns of the Danish People's Party since it was founded in the mid-1990s has been the policy of the elderly and the security of older people. I cannot get that equation to go up because we have the result today that there are so marked deteriorations for so many of the weakest elderly. Can the rapporteur explain how a + b + c has suddenly become x?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171017	Well, I understand that sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen finds it difficult to understand. I've had some trouble with the bill, I'll say hello. It is not so simple to understand, and it is not so simple to explain it to people. But you may have the opportunity to talk to the individual and explain it. I've got one of them. Today we talked to several elderly people who called in to hear about this proposal. Because it is as if the press says that all pensioners are now losing DKK 8 000. A year, and they don't. It is based on what disposable income you have. In this context, we have ensured that the weakest elderly receive more. We have also ensured that some money will be returned to the elderly area in this context. So we've got something through. It is true that some people are going to lose something, and that is not what we are so excited about, but we can also see that there is a problem with housing simply becoming too expensive, and that is what needs to be changed so that we get down to a more normal price-rent as far as rent is concerned. That's what the government has to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171134	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171136	I'm pretty sure there's a lot of things in the bill itself. But overall, it is simple enough to understand that over the next 10 years, 1 billion will be saved. kr. the housing benefits for the weakest elderly. It's easy enough for everyone to understand. Then there may be all sorts of modulations of who gets what and when and how and how, but the point is that you significantly reduce housing benefits and that the vast majority of older people will experience considerable uncertainty and insecurity, and a lot of people will find that their disposable income is going to go down significantly. It's basically simple enough to understand. But sir... Bent Bøgsted doesn't just tell me if he thinks that the dignity billionard called it by the Danish People's Party and the government, which is really just the older billion, as agreed by the previous government and Enhedslisten, outweighs these marked deteriorations in housing benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171227	I didn't say it outweighs that. I have said that it is a good thing that it has arrived, and I have also said that it is a good thing that there are 93 000 households that receive more in housing benefits. That's what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171241	The next brief remark is from Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171245	That's a lot of extravagance, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted. It is, of course, a very simple bill that we have today. It is not complicated at all. Can the rapporteur not confirm that if this bill is adopted and it does so only if the Danish People's Party votes in favour, because if the Danish People's Party votes against, then it will fall, hundreds of millions of kroner will be taken every year from the Danish National Pensioners? Haps! And they leave, among other things. That it will be cheaper to buy large cars. Isn't it so simple that you can answer yes or no to this question?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171331	No, it's not that simple, because you can't say that the money that comes from here is that people can buy some cheaper cars. You can't say it's that simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171345	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171347	But cars! Then we remove the cars from the equation... we park them over here... and then we just deal with the basics: this bill means that hundreds of millions of kroner are taken from Danish folk pensioners every year. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171418	Millions are being taken from pensioners in housing benefits, that is correct, but millions are also being added to pensioners. Those with the lowest income get more. Some more money is also being given to the elderly area in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171438	The next brief remark is from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171444	Last Friday the Danish People's Party voted for 7 billion. kr. from the municipalities. In the election campaign, the Danish People's Party promised that it would give money to the municipalities for more welfare. Today, the Danish People's Party supports taking millions, as the rapporteur himself has just said, from pensioners. In the election campaign we heard the Danish People's Party tour the country with many promises of all the good that would be done for pensioners. Are these two examples not two very clear examples of what we call a break in Danish politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171524	Well, if you look at what we in the Danish People's Party have got through in the Finance Act, you will see that we would also very much have liked to have had much more through. Of course, we could have said no to the whole thing, and that is wishful thinking on the part of Mrs Stine Brix, and then we would have overturned the government, and then there would have been a new parliamentary election and perhaps a new government. Of course, we could have done the same. But there would have been many other things that we would not have got through if we had chosen to overthrow the government, because that would have stopped the negotiations on the Finance Act. However, I am sure that Mrs Stine Brix will also have some good questions for the debate on Finance Law, which will be here next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171609	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171611	Thank you for trusting in my questioning skills; I will then try to live up to that. The definition of a breach of promise is to make a promise to the electorate, for example. in an election campaign, and then you break it so completely clear. And that is exactly what the Danish People's Party is doing today, and that is exactly what the Danish People's Party did on Friday. At that rate, that is to say, you can make two such bell-clear breaks in two consecutive working days in the Folketing, I think it does look bad for the coming period. But I can certainly hear a statement from the rapporteur, because he certainly does not deny it when I say that it is a breach of the law; he just goes on to say that the Danish People's Party actually knows that it is a matter of this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171656	Well, I think I'm going to deal with this bill for a change in housing benefits, where we at least in the Danish People's Party have ensured that the most disadvantaged pensioners receive more housing benefits with this package.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171714	The next brief remark is from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171719	Well, we heard earlier, sir. Bent Bøgsted's party colleague, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, brings out the usual tirade, as has been learned from the Minister of Finance, that there was no money in the box and the yada yada yada, although we know very well that the financial room for manoeuvre up to 2020 is greater than when the SR government left the offices. It shows the latest cashier's checkup. Nor has it appeared that the financial rapporteur for the Danish People's Party's quite harsh criticism of the Finance Minister in today's edition of the Stock Exchange has been read. But that is quite another aspect of the matter. What I would like to dive into is the financial law agreement, of which this is, of course, a coinage. When you read it, you can see how long this deal's gonna take. But there is one thing that is in no way apparent, and that is how the money, the revenue that comes out of this agreement, is to be spent in the years of estimates, i.e. from 2017 onwards. I know, at least from the many debates I have had over time, that if there is something that is normally secured, it is that you have a possession of the money. I do not think that it appears anywhere that the Danish People's Party has ensured how the future proceeds are to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171836	Now, sir. I mean, Benny Engelbrecht, he's got a lot of money laws and stuff. I believe that this question is best suited to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht puts it to the finance rapporteur, because I have not been involved in negotiating it or in negotiating what that revenue is to be used for. I am, of course, only an employment rapporteur in this game. But I think that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht had to ask about it in connection with the financial bill debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171909	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171910	It is a bit surprising to me that we are not talking in such a way, that we do not just coordinate it and tell what we really intend to do, that the money will be spent in the coming years. For one thing, what comes in by 2020 is something else, like Mr. Bent Bøgsted also knows that it is even more money that comes into the following years. Has the Danish People's Party not considered at all what the money is for? Is this just a matter of cutting back on pensioners? Is that all the exercise is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208171942	Of course we have had some reflections. However, as I say, it is the financial rapporteur who has it. Mr. Benny Engelbrecht too well. After all, the Social Democrats did not tell the various rapporteurs exactly what the various amounts were to be spent on. It was only when all the negotiations and the Finance Act were in place that it was adopted that it was done. I can well remember talking to rapporteurs from the Social Democratic Party who had no knowledge of what the various funds were to be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172015	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172020	I understand from the rapporteur that we have agreed that by 2020 the Danish People's Party will take nearly 0.5 billion with the government. kr. Out of the pensioners' pockets. Sir. Bent Bøgsted has the hypothesis that now you can talk to the National Association of Municipalities about whether or not they can compensate pensioners for it through lower rents. Thinks sir. Bent Bøgsted, that it will be an easy task when you have also agreed to take 7 billion. kr. out of the municipal coffers before we reach 2020? This is going to be a bad calculation for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172056	It is actually a good thing that Mr. Jesper Kiel, I'd like to say the correct name... to mention this by 2020. Because it is the case that it is being phased in, and the figures we have mentioned are then only valid in 2020. Then there's exactly what Mr. Jesper Kiel mentions that the government needs to talk to the municipalities. And it must also be in the interests of the municipalities that the rent in newly built elderly housing should not continue to increase. There is a big difference between the cost of housing in the various parts of the country. However, it cannot be in the interests of the municipalities to continue to raise the prices of housing and to increase and increase it. So it would be quite natural to say that now you have to set a ceiling on what housing costs, because otherwise it will run out of hand, and then the housing associations and construction companies that build up the higher the prices, because there will be a housing benefit, because that does not mean much. So it would be good to have a ceiling on what they cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172206	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172208	But can we agree that it is going to be a difficult discussion when at the same time you tell the municipalities that you are going to take 7 billion? kr. Out of the county coffers? Now they have to solve a problem for the Danish People's Party, namely that they have taken 0.5 billion. kr. Out of the pensioners' pockets. You don't think this is gonna be a tough conversation? Now I know that it will not be the Danish People's Party that will take it, but the government, but I think that the municipalities will be hard to convince that it should be their job to solve the Danish People's Party's problem that they have taken 0.5 billion. kr. Out of the pensioners' pockets.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172237	I do not think this is going to be such a difficult task, because, as I say, it must also be in the interests of the municipalities that the prices of elderly housing do not continue to rise. This does not mean that the municipalities have to pay more for it, but it is a question of what agreements they make about what construction should contain and what it should be like, so that those who build the homes do not just keep raising prices and rising prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172301	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172320	Thank you. The bill we are discussing today is part of the 2016 Finance Law Agreement concluded between the Government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. As I said, the agreement concerns a housing allowance package. We want to target the housing benefits in relation to the income of the beneficiaries. The bill contains four elements. The annual adjustment of the limits for housing benefits must follow consumer prices, as is the case today with housing security. In addition, the calculation technical supplement to the rent shall be progressively abolished and instead calculated on the basis of the actual rent. In addition, a ceiling is introduced on the maximum rent which can be included in the calculation of housing benefits for persons living in elderly dwellings. The ceiling shall be introduced only for newly appointed elderly people after 2020. It is also included in the bill that the requirement for self-payment is gradually relaxed from 16,000 DKK. for DKK 14,500. annual. In this way, we also target housing benefits for pensioners with the lowest incomes. In other words, the rules on housing benefits for pensioners will continue to be more favourable than the rules on housing security. It's not gonna change this deal, and this bill isn't gonna change it. Savings are targeted at folk pensioners with relatively high incomes, while we lower their own payments so that pensioners with the lowest incomes gain more access to housing benefits. It is not reasonable that, year by year, the difference between housing benefits and housing security is increasing because of an incomprehensible difference in the rate of regulation. Of course, the housing allowance must be calculated from the rent actually paid and not from a notional amount. Overall, the Left considers this to be a sensible and balanced targeting of housing benefits, and so we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172538	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172544	Thank you. As I recall, sir. Hans Andersen also has some experience from municipal life, which is why he can well understand how the municipalities will react to this. But there's one thing I don't understand. After all, it is not uncommon for pensioners who understand that they have very little income of a maximum of DKr 18 000. a year as an additional income, has a rent in an elderly home of up to DKK 7,000. a month. How will Hans Andersen get the municipalities to build some homes that are cheaper? So, I mean, one thing is to say that you can find some really old homes that do not meet the standards you have for the elderly and all those things, but how will he get the municipalities to build new homes that are cheaper?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172636	Thank you. Well, there is certainly a task in ensuring that we build cheap housing for our older fellow citizens. That is certainly a task. It's not easy to solve, no doubt about it. And here we have a task both for the government and also for the municipalities, because we all have an interest in building housing, and the elderly are also able to pay. So here is the task of thinking differently than you may have done over a number of years, when you can say that the public has paid the remaining benefit. So there have been no restrictions or incentives to build much cheaper housing than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172724	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172725	Personally, I do not believe in it unless one then wants to accept a standard in housing which we have begun to tear down these days in Denmark. Do you really want older people in the last few years to be locked up in some concrete building in a few square meters, or what is the point of that? I didn't get an answer. I don't think you can build cheaper homes for the elderly than you do. The municipalities are doing everything they can to say that it must be at a proper price. The housing associations are doing what they can. Everyone is doing what they can to keep prices down to a proper level, otherwise they cannot be rented out. When the elderly get less money, they can't rent it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172803-2	As I said earlier, it is certainly a difficult task, but we are taking that on board. We have thus seen an ambition to have cheaper housing built in the long term. And I remember that there have been parties other than the Left that have had the ambition, that is, to build housing that can also be paid for by our older fellow citizens, even after 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172830	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172835	Thank you. After all, we have heard about the consequences of this, that over 100,000 people will become poorer as a result of this proposal. It is people who have worked and contributed to the community throughout their lives. This is where the Left, together with the Danish People's Party, can find out how to collect money when they have to make their first Finance Act • from the folk pensionists. I just have one very simple question: was there anyone from the Left and the rapporteur also allowed to answer on behalf of the Danish People's Party who, before the election six months ago, told Danish folk pensioners that the first Finance Act would save hundreds of millions of kroner, would take from their housing benefits? Did they say that once during the election campaign? Did the Danish people's pensionists get a single chance to choose to say that they did not want to, by voting for parties other than those that formed the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208172941-2	I certainly think that in the election campaign we pointed out to the electorate that we were and still are in a situation where we have to give priority to tough. We mentioned the spending freeze as one of the options forward, so I do not think it is surprising that we need to give priority to a financial law. And here we give priority to spending less money on housing benefits, but more money on making our health care even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173017	I can't believe it actually comes as a surprise to a lot of people. I think there were a great many pensioners who were quite sure that when the Danish People's Party became a parliamentary basis for a government, it would not be able to implement a financial law reducing the income of over 100,000 pensioners. I can't believe I actually think that's gonna come as a surprise. Then I would actually like to ask the rapporteur to answer my question. Did they say clearly to the voters before this election: if you vote for us in the Left or on our parliamentary basis, the Danish People's Party, will we go in and reduce the monthly benefits of the pensioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173054	But the fact is that those who have the lowest incomes as pensioners actually get more in housing benefits. It's kind of a fact. They get more in housing benefits. Then it is true that the Left said that this will be a sharp priority in the coming years, and that is where we have given priority to our health care. We have prioritised that we can also prioritise the area of the elderly, and then here is an area where we say: here we need to regulate our housing benefits in such a way that it is regulated forward-looking in the same way as housing insurance does.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173126	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173131	Thank you. However, I would like to say to the rapporteur that priority has also been given to something else. So would the rapporteur like to confirm that the reduction for pensioners we are discussing here, as well as the reduction that we dealt with in the last draft mentor scheme, has been necessary in order to make the budget law coherent? The Finance Act has also given priority to tax reliefs, particularly for large cars, which have given priority to reliefs in the land, particularly for the wealthiest homeowners at the most expensive addresses, and priority has been given to billions of kroner in business reliefs, by the way. Then the rapporteur would like to confirm that this has been a necessary exercise if we were to create room for manoeuvre, as it so finely states, for tax cuts to Overdanmark, so that, according to the government's own figures, underdanmark, namely hundreds of thousands of pensioners, when we reach 2025, contributes almost 1 billion. kr. to the tax cuts of Overdanmark, and if we go up to 2050 it is 2.5 billion. kr., you take from the National Pensioners in Underdanmark and return to them up there in Overdanmark
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173246	The questioner is asked to close the question when the President gets up. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173249	Thank you. There is no doubt that this is a priority that we have set in the context of the Financial Law Agreement. There's no doubt about it. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, there are some things that we are now regulating in a different way in relation to housing benefits. The housing allowance will be adjusted upwards in the same way as the housing security. You don't have any extra rent when calculating the accommodation allowance itself. We have now put these things into a legislative proposal. It is true, then, that, in the context of the financial regulation, we have generally prioritised, among other things. higher and health care by 2.4 billion. kr. So it is clear that there is a priority under the Finance Act. I do not want to hide that, and it has also been done in connection with the conclusion of this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173338	Thank you to the rapporteur for confirming that priority has been given, which means that by 2025, let us not go so far, pensioners in the Netherlands contribute nearly 900 million. kr. To all those up there in Overdanmark. And the rapporteur confirms that he is happy and satisfied that the Danish People's Party has realised that this is the right priority against what was promised to the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173409	The fact is that pensioners with the lowest incomes are actually getting a little more out of this agreement, this bill. That's about. 92,000, who gets a little more in housing benefits than they got in 2015, when we get this bill implemented. Then it is true that there is a priority. I am, in fact, very pleased that we could give higher priority to health, that we could give higher priority to the general area of the elderly. But that is true: priority has been given. This has also happened in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173445	Thank you. We thank the rapporteur and continue in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208173458	Thank you. Once upon a time, there was a party that decided to be the party of the elderly. That is why they called themselves the Danish People's Party because they know that the elderly's welfare is an important matter for the Danish people as a whole. After all, we were questioning that from the start, and it turns out that we did so rightly. It is good that you get an elderly cheque, as you did when you get a dignified billion. All honor and respect for it. But what is the point of voting with the other hand to tighten up the local economy, as has been done several times since 2009, with serious consequences for the care of the elderly in the municipalities? And as was done last week, when the Danish People's Party could have prevented a violent theft from the municipalities of more than 7 billion. kr. by requiring all municipalities to save 1%. each year for the next four years. What we are witnessing today, with the support of the Danish People's Party for this bill, marks the final transformation of the Danish People's Party from the party of the elderly, especially the most vulnerable elderly, to a quite ordinary bourgeois cut-off party. It is an antisocial proposal that we are debating. The housing allowance is a solidarity scheme which ensures that pensioners can stay in their own homes and that the most vulnerable, those with special needs due to disability or substantial disability, can have a dignified, up-to-date accommodation that they would never be able to afford if they had to pay it all themselves. As ATP points out, more than 90% goes. of the amounts paid in housing benefits to households with low or very low income. So it's not just the 93,000. Approx. 30% of all payments made relate to pensioners with special needs, namely the group living in elderly and nursing homes. All pensioners are affected in the long term, even if on a shorter horizon there is a small relief for those with very low rents. At some point it is eaten up by the worse regulation of housing benefits that affects everyone. However, two groups are particularly hard hit in the medium term and the short term. One is pensioners in general rental housing who are affected by the escalation and disappearance of the calculation supplement. Many pensioners in ordinary rental homes will simply have less to live for. The government itself estimates that approx. 132,000 pensioners lose an average of DKK 3,780. After baby. It is not much money for a prime minister to buy new shoes, but it is a lot of money for a pensioner who has little more to live for than a national pension. The second group affected is the group of elderly people who will in future be assigned elderly housing by the municipality. In addition to less regulation of housing benefits and phasing out of the calculation allowance, they are severely affected by the introduction of a ceiling on housing benefits in these dwellings. The rents are often high here because the homes are relatively new and furnished to meet the specific needs of the residents. It is a group of people who cannot defend themselves. They can say no, because they can't afford it, but what good does it do? Where, then, will they live with the needs they have? The government has not presented the full consequences of this bill. We've been asking questions, and it's gonna be dug up. However, the Elder Case has calculated that for a new resident in an elderly residence in 2021, where the ceiling enters into force, there may be a loss of approx. 8,200 kr. We are talking here about a pensioner with a very modest supplementary income of DKK 18,000. a year and a not uncommon rent in an elderly home of DKK 7,000. a month. It turns the heavy end down, so it will something. It is pathetic in itself that a party that calls itself the party of the elderly can dream of contributing to this sort of thing at all. But even more pathetic are the excuses you find for the occasion. It is pointed out that the housing allowance today has a better regulation than housing insurance. Yes, the Danish Parliament has adopted this with open eyes, because most people have so far believed that the elderly should have significantly better conditions than other tenants. It is about respect and fairness towards people who have worked their whole lives to create the society we have. However, it seems that harmonization must now be made downwards. It is pointed out that lower housing benefits should stimulate municipalities to build cheaper elderly housing. Why on earth should it help the municipalities to do so, to take some money from the people who are going to live in the elderly? No, there's only one motive for this proposal. It is to save public spending so that room for tax relief can be created. That is, for example, the case. tax relief on the land, which will benefit the rich living in the expensive houses at the expensive addresses, and which will further increase the inequality between owners and tenants. I would like to conclude by saying that if the Danish People's Party votes in favour of this bill, then we can quite rightly say that the Danish People's Party alone is responsible for voting this ugly deterioration against the country's pensioners, because there is another majority they can use if they want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174024	Thank you. For the time being, Mr President, there is one brief comment. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174031	Thank you. I'm actually just gonna ask you about this level of regulation. Why does the Enhedslisten think it is reasonable that there is a difference between what cash benefit recipients and early retirement pensioners in the new scheme are regulated with and what are pensioners governed by? Why is it respectful and reasonable for pensioners to have a higher level of regulation than cash benefits recipients and early retirement pensioners in the new scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174108	Thank you. I think the rapporteur is well aware of our position on this. We do not think that the form of regulation for all the other transfer income is reasonable. The rapporteur is well aware of this. As the only party in the Folketing, we are outside the pool of rates for precisely that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174130	The rapporteur just argued that it was respectful and reasonable for pensioners to have a higher level of regulation. I think that if someone is sitting and watching and is on cash benefits, then perhaps they will assess and say: is it respectful and reasonable that I have to be regulated less than the pensioners? The second question is: can the rapporteur not confirm that, as far as this bill is concerned, there are some 90,000 recipients of housing benefits who get more in housing benefits with this bill when it is adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174209	As far as the discussion on fairness and fairness is concerned, I merely referred to what might have been the reason why the Folketing has accepted and thought it was reasonable for pensioners to have better regulation for many, many years. The rapporteur then knows our views on this. Yes, we are happy to discuss harmonisation with beneficiaries of other transfer income and those receiving housing benefits. However, I believe that the rapporteur knows very well that it must be harmonisation upwards. As far as the 90 000 are concerned, my rapporteur's speech shows that we are well aware that a group is getting a little more. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is at some point eaten up by the worse regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174254	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174316	Thank you so much. A lively debate in the Parliamentary Assembly is a great thing. We think this is a sensible bill. In fact, this is a re-establishment of this area, where there are clear shortcomings, and they are then cleaned up here. We think that is a good thing. For example, it is good that housing benefits are changed so that it is regulated with consumer prices and not wage trends. Of course, that is the way it should be. If you have now chosen to grant aid for a particular consumption, the aid must, of course, be linked to the development of the price of the consumption you want to support. It is also a principle which the previous government chose to follow when it changed the rate regulation so that transfer income was regulated by price developments rather than wage developments. This was the view of the previous government; now it is evident that it is a huge disaster that the very same principle is being applied in this area. Then, according to Section 21 of the Housing Support Act, the housing allowance is calculated as the difference between 75% on the one hand and 75% on the other. of the annual cost of housing with a supplement of DKK 6,400. and on the other hand 221⁄2%. of household income above an income limit of 151,000. So this is the fictional supplement of DKK 6,400, which will be escalated towards 2020. That is also sensible. The housing allowance should, of course, be calculated on the basis of the actual rent and not on the basis of a rent which has been allocated a notional extra amount. This bill also introduces a ceiling on the maximum rent which can be included in the calculation of the housing allowance for persons in elderly dwellings corresponding to the ceiling in the second rental residence. This part of the draft law shall not take effect until 2021 and only for newly appointed persons. We think that is also sensible. Studies have been carried out to show that the level of housing benefits also affects the price of elderly housing and also other types of housing. That's the way it is in the nature of things. When you support a certain type of consumption, prices also increase on what you want to support. Then there is the last part of the bill, which means that pensioners will receive a higher housing allowance. Thus 92,720 households will increase their disposable income by an average of DKK 1,220. It is the pensioners who have the lowest income. Finally, I would like to say that we have witnessed a marvellous hypocrisy on the part of several parties in the Folketing. This is true, for example. Enhedslisten, who believed that Dansk Folkeparti should overthrow the government on the basis of this specific bill. They simply did not have to support the bill. It has to be said that the previous government took a large number of initiatives that Enhedslisten was strongly opposed to. All Enhedslisten could do was shout and scream outside the negotiating room. It wasn't pretty to watch. That's what it turned out to be. Then there are the Social Democrats. I would like to make a bet with all the Social Democrats here today: Social democracy is not going to change this bill; they are not going to roll it back, the accident should find that they won the next parliamentary election. But once they get to power, and they probably do that in a statistical way, they don't roll this back. I'll bet you right now. For this is basically a sensible legislative proposal, which means taking some inappropriate things out of the entire housing support legislation. That is why, of course, we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174757	Thank you. And there is one brief comment for the time being. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174804	The Enhedslisten did not, as the rapporteur claimed, say that the Danish People's Party should overthrow the government, not at all. The Enhedslisten has said that the Danish People's Party first, when entering the negotiations, should have informed the Minister for Finance that this could not appear in a Finance Act supported by the Danish People's Party. Enhedslisten has never put any votes into this kind of thing. If the rapporteur can find a Finance Act where we have voted to cut down on folk pensioners or other poorest groups in Denmark, then I invite you to a lunch down in the Snapsting. That's the difference. It is true that the government did things, among other things. together with the rapporteur's party, but we never voted for this kind of deterioration. Enhedslisten will never do that. This is a fundamental difference between us and the Danish People's Party. When such things were in the draft negotiations of the then Minister for Finance Bjarne Corydon, we announced at the first meeting that they could forget about that. It had to go out. And then we could start negotiating. We had courage to do so in contrast to the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208174905	That's right. But this is an expression of the fact that Enhedslisten is a party that can only give Enhedslisten is an implemented irresponsible party, a party with which one simply cannot conduct politics if one wants to pursue a responsible economic policy. The Danish People's Party is not. Although we have many disagreements with the Danish People's Party, the Danish People's Party is in fact a party that can go in and take responsibility for the economic development of this country and ensure that there is a balance between revenue and expenditure. It is such a party that the Danish People's Party is, and I would like to sign for it. But Enhedslisten isn't. And therefore the Enhedslisten can stand and shout and scream down in the Assembly Hall, but they can't figure out how to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175008	I'm gonna talk quietly. The Enhedslisten took responsibility for three finance laws because they took a little in the right direction towards a slightly fairer Denmark. That is why we voted in favour. That's why we took responsibility for it. What happens to this finance law and to this specific proposal is that people, employees who have worked their whole lives, who have paid for my education, and who have paid for your sports practice and a lot of other things, are the ones you first choose to say that you will find the money in the first Finance Act after the election. And was it something that was told to the voters before the election? No, of course it wasn't, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175049	The questioner should observe: paragraph 1, that one concludes one's brief remark when the President gets up and paragraph 2 that one appeals to the rapporteur in the third person. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175059	But it's just factually wrong. It is not the case that you can say that it is the generation that has paid everything. Well, that's not how it works. The fact is that during the generation that is today on a folk pension, which has done lots and lots of good for Denmark, we are in complete agreement on • large deficits were built up. But our model is built up so that you pay some taxes, and then the money is distributed. There is no connection between what one has done and what one receives. There isn't! The truth is that there were huge deficits in public finances, which were also built up during the generation, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted talks about which one had to address. That is how it is in Danish politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175150	Thank you. Next in line is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175151	Thank you. The rapporteur and the mood in general feel that he has a moment of victory right now. And I'd like to give him that, too, because I kind of understand that. So, I understand why the Liberal Alliance can feel on top of it and see this debate today as something where there is hypocrisy and what else has been used by expression. After all, it is not the rapporteur's party that has had to pay the big price. You know, you've been victorious out of these financial law negotiations. After all, it is the Danish People's Party which, as we have previously talked about, has had to pay the big price. After all, they have had to carry everything through so that you could stand up in the Liberal Alliance group room and drink champagne and toast to lower car charges and everything else. Having said that, what I do not understand is that it seems that the rapporteur is completely ignoring some of the consultation answers that have come in connection with the legislative procedure here. In contrast to what the rapporteur says, there is a warning that it will be impossible to build elderly housing of such quality that, as elderly people, you can live in them when you reach the age and are in the physical condition that makes you need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175307	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175307-2	The future will show whether it will be impossible to build old homes in Denmark. I seriously doubt it. Older homes will be built in the future in Denmark, I am quite convinced of that. We'll see about that. I would, of course, like to thank the rapporteur for saying that we have had a victory in the Finance Act. We think we do too. We thought that was a good result. However, the money available under the Finance Act has been distributed according to the size of the parties, and there the Danish People's Party has also got what was due to them. So I think more that in this case it is based on such an interest in exhibiting the Danish People's Party as a party that has not received anything from the Finance Act. It's factually wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175404	I have no interest in exhibiting anything. But now that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen makes himself rapporteur on behalf of the Danish People's Party, can he explain to the rest of the Danish Parliament exactly what he thinks the Danish People's Party has got through the financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175423	No, because I am not going to make myself rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. I just note that the room for manoeuvre under the Finance Act has been distributed among the parties. There we have had a very, very fine division of labour with respect for the various wishes of the various parties. That's how we've done it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175446	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175451	The rapporteur was a little out of his depth a short time ago when he said that the Enhedslisten is an irresponsible party that will only give money. I would like to ask, because now we need to get those words straight: is it more responsible to give money to the taxes on expensive sports cars and to give money to reduce the land of the villa owners than it is to give some money to the poorest people in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175520	The elementary difference between the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten is that we do not give money to anyone at all. We let people keep the money they made for themselves. It is a very, very big difference between the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance, and I will insist at all times that Enhedslisten is an implemented irresponsible party which is unable and never has been able to address the challenges that Denmark faces. It has not contributed to any of the reforms that have balanced public finances. They never contribute to reforms that increase growth and employment in Denmark. They want to spend money and distribute money. This is mastered in Enhedslisten, but to take responsibility for the Danish economy and conduct a responsible economic policy, Enhedslisten is not able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175619	Now I don't quite understand it anymore. In other words, if you cut back on pensioners' housing subsidies, you also take something from pensioners. If you lighten the tax on expensive sports cars, if you relieve the ground blame for villa owners, you give something to car owners and villa owners, compared to what they have and get today. Of course you can explain that, and that is why it is quite fine that it is the voters who decide which parties are responsible. But if you want to benefit the rich and take away from the poorest, you have to vote for the Liberal Alliance, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175658	No. If you want to ensure that Denmark is a rich and prosperous country, which is the prerequisite for all people to live a good life, and if you want to ensure that economic security is created in the long run by living in a prosperous society, you have to vote for the Liberal Alliance. If you want redistribution on the short track and you want Denmark to become poorer and poorer, you have to vote on the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175730	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175734	Thank you. The rapporteur said a few rounds ago that the Enhedslisten is a party that will only distribute money and that we will never be there when the goods are to be financed. Could the rapporteur please eat those words again? Would the rapporteur please confirm that the Enhedslisten has helped to balance revenue and expenditure in three financial laws of the previous government, that we have made countless times expensive proposals that improved the conditions of the general public, but that we have also always proposed funding, for example. By rolling back some of the tax concessions to Overdanmark, to which the rapporteur's party has contributed? So would the rapporteur like to confirm that it was simply wrong to claim that the Enhedslisten never proposes to finance the benefits we think the general public should have?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175830	If I made it sound that way, of course it is wrong, because Enhedslisten is always willing to take and take and take from people who make productive efforts, invest, go to work, have qualified and thus been able to get a high salary. Enhedslisten always wants to take money from them because you seem to have some belief that you can just take and take and take from people, and then we just magically get richer all together. It is Enhedslisten only the only ones who believe in it, and Enhedslisten can find no evidence whatsoever in the economic literature that it should be true. So yes, Enhedslisten would like to take from people who work, invest that makes this country the prosperous country that it is, and give to other people. I want you to have it. You'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208175928	Yes, if the rapporteur would be kind enough to confirm that it is a very specific group of people that we have proposed should contribute something more to the funding of welfare in this country and the security of employees, etc., namely a very small group of people who have been gilded by the politics of the Liberal Alliance and which, incidentally, the bourgeois parties stand for, now also the Danish People's Party. We just need to confirm that. Then there is one more thing: we just look at what is responsible policy differently. The rapporteur believes that it is responsible to take money from pensioners and to give to Overdanmark. The unitary list believes that it is deeply irresponsible. Can't we just agree that's what we disagree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180013	The small, small group that Enhedslisten is talking about must then be the group such as: Pays top taxes. In the 00s it was 1 million people who paid top tax • 1 million people • ordinary employees who paid top tax. As far as I remember, the Enhedslisten was opposed to giving them top tax concessions, allowing them to keep more of the money they earned. The Enhedslisten is also against it now that 0.5 million people pay top tax, including school teachers, nurses and others with ordinary salary incomes. And I would also like to say that people who have high salaries do, of course, because they are good at something, and I do not think that should be punished. I think that's really stupid to punish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180059	We thank the rapporteur and continue in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180112	Thank you. The present draft law proposes that the Housing Support Act be amended so that the limits for housing benefits are adjusted on the basis of price increases rather than wage adjustments; that the calculation technical supplements be gradually abolished so that the housing benefits are calculated in the future on the basis of actual rent; that a ceiling be introduced for eligible rents in elderly dwellings corresponding to the ceiling in the second rental house; and finally that there is a gradual relaxation of the own payment. In our view, the deterioration in housing benefits which this is leading to is an undermining of the purpose of housing benefits, which we believe should act as a hand for pensioners and early retirement pensioners who have high housing costs in relation to their income. We believe that the proposal affects a group of the weakest elderly, who live in expensive housing for the elderly and who do not simply have the opportunity to move to a cheaper accommodation or can choose to stay in their own homes, which many of them would at least prefer. They often have special health needs, which are the reason why they are initially assigned to an elderly home and which is also the reason why elderly housing has to be designed on special grounds, and this gives higher rent than in, for example, the Netherlands. regular family homes. In recent years, there has been a great deal of focus on the elderly housing policy, and the conditions for pensioners and early retirement are something that the Danes are very concerned about, and this is also why housing benefits have so far been prioritised. We see that these deteriorations have a social disadvantage and put municipalities in an even more difficult situation in relation to finding suitable housing for their citizens. It is the poorest elderly people in elderly and nursing homes who are hardest hit by this. It is often those who have a modest pension fund and who already today in some places receive special supplements from the municipality because they cannot pay the rent when they move in the nursing home that they need. Is it reasonable to reduce this housing subsidy and thus the individual's available amount? We don't think it is. Firstly, it is already difficult to find and build cheaper housing for the elderly, as it is by its very nature a form of housing which has certain accessibility requirements and is therefore often more expensive. Secondly, it should be pointed out that it is not possible for municipalities to lower the rent level for existing buildings. Today, there are a number of legal requirements for housing, which limit the ability of municipalities to build cheaply, so for the elderly, who already live in an elderly or nursing home, this incentive thinking will only mean a reduced amount of availability and the ability of municipalities to find suitable housing for affected citizens is likely to be considerably more difficult. We recognise that there is a need to increase the proportion of general housing and elderly housing, but lowering housing support does not solve the problem, but merely creates more obstacles for municipalities. We believe that the state should instead support the municipalities by providing them with a better framework for building cheaper housing. I also think that it seems unreasonable that the proposed savings in housing benefits, which hit the poorest elderly hardest, should be used to finance this, as we have mentioned in the Finance Act tax cuts for homeowners, among others. the freezing of the land, which is primarily of benefit to the most prosperous citizens. In our world, it gives blinking red figures on the social bottom line, and so we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180432	There are no requests for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180450	Thank you, President. As a starting point, in the Radical Left, we do not believe that pensioners should be put separately from all other groups, in terms of how we regulate rates. It is clear that we think it is fair to regulate by price. It is also clear that we can take political initiatives together to help the elderly, especially the weakest and most vulnerable elderly, but this is very much about regulating some rates more for this group than for others, for example. the young people and the recipients of cash benefits. We think that is a little special from the outset. That is why we are actually inclined to agree with the government here. On the other hand, however, I would also like to wait and hear the Minister's comments and also take the process in committee before we take a final position, because of course I have also taken note of the criticisms in the answers to the hearings. In particular, I am a little concerned about the response from Danske Handicaporganisations on how disabled people on early retirement are made. So I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify this and that we will be able to have clarity in committee on it. But on the basis of this we have the feeling that, in terms of regulating rates, it should be the same for the different groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180619	There is a brief comment. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180625	It was then the day when the Danish People's Party and the Radicals became a brother in this Chamber. I find that interesting. When we have a proposal that will take, yes, in the long term over a billion, because this is increasing year by year, out of the pocket of Danish folk pensioners, then we can find the brotherhood between the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. I think that is an exciting new alliance in Danish politics. I would say that I am more surprised by the line taken by the Danish People's Party in this matter than by the Radicals. And then I understand it's all about putting the cash aid recipients on the same footing. As far as I remember, these calculation allowances have been changed for those groups a few years ago. Then the Radical Left was also in favour of it. So it will be a little bit like that that we can put them down and pensioners even more down, and then we can say that no, it is also strict that the recipients of cash benefits are getting a little less now. Could it be that at some point the Radicals actually thought that some of these groups, which are some of the poorest groups in Denmark, should have a bit more to live for and not less to live for?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180730	There's too much background noise in the hall. I must ask that that telephone call be conducted down there outside the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180738	Thank you. It is quite true that we were involved in implementing that rates were regulated by price. We think that's fair. That is why we also think it is fair that it is being done all around. We are actually concerned about wanting to and there I think we differ significantly in this case from the Danish People's Party, which I am comfortable agreeing with about things; it's about content and not about which parties it is investing in education, also like to the most vulnerable. We also have a number of proposals for this in our draft Finance Act, and that is something quite different from what we see that the government's Finance Act is about. Now I am dealing with the specific legislative proposal, and it is about the rates, and there we actually think it should look the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180829	Then I'd like to ask you something else. We have heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party stand and tell you up here that if you did not support this, the government would have fallen. Now the Radicals also have some experience of sitting in government and also experience of having periods as a support party. Can the radical rapporteur confirm that this is not quite the way it works, that one can say well as a party: here is our pain limit, it just has to go out, and then we will continue to negotiate without the government having to resign?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180902	I think that was quite a good point. I must, of course, give the rapporteur that the rapporteur had when he asked about the Danish People's Party's proposal. I myself remember financial law negotiations with the rapporteur's party of a similar nature, disagreements where we come to terms with one another. Of course, when you are dependent on your support parties and, as another rapporteur from the rapporteur's party said earlier, we agreed on three financial laws in our time. So the Danish People's Party should also be able to influence that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180935	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208180938	Thank you to the rapporteur. The announcement by the Radicals may surprise me a little, because if the Radicals can see something sensible in the government's proposal here, why have they not raised it while they had the opportunity as a government party? It is, of course, a philosophical consideration, but nevertheless. Now this proposal is not just about the rates and the regulation of them. It is also a question of two other serious interventions, namely the abolition of the technical supplement and the consequences I have mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, to the extent that we know them, at least on an average basis, and this is, of course, about the ceiling on the rent that can be subsidised in elderly housing. Perhaps I did not listen very much, but does the rapporteur think that these are good proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181029	As a party we look at it together, and I also said in my rapporteur's speech that I would like to hear the Minister's comments and, moreover, take the committee's reading in relation to the hearings on these various points. I think most of it is fair. It's all about putting the rates on an equal footing and abolishing this computational supplement. There are other parts of it where I can see that there are some challenges, including when it comes to the phasing-in period, and that is what I would like to take during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181103	Thank you. If you read the Minister's hearing answer, he has answered everything. He thinks it is fine and there is a clear majority in this Chamber for it to be fine as it is. So the Radicals are faced with the choice between voting in favour or voting against. There is no indication that we can enter and botanize and remove one or the other. The rapporteur will agree with this. In the end, it is about the Radicals making the same choice that the Danish People's Party has made, namely that it is okay to take almost 1 billion. kr. from pensioners in 2025 and give them tax relief to Overdanmark. That is the choice facing the Radicals here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181144	For us, this is about dealing with the bill. We presented a draft Finance Act before the elections were held, and there it was obvious what we wanted to prioritise. These were quite, quite different things that we could have prioritised for the same funds that the government prioritised for quite different things. But I have to consider whether I think it is fair that pensioners should be provided with a basis for calculating them in the same way as other groups on transfer income, and that is what we think from the point of view of the Radical Left, and then we will see what answers we receive during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181230	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181236	I really have to have it one more time. Radical Left thinks it's okay to take 3,780 kr. Every year from 132 000 pensioners' housing subsidies, when you know the housing market, when you know how little a pensioner has? I just didn't think so. I have to be absolutely sure that is absolutely right. Do you really think so, even if the money went to education? Isn't there more socially fair places that you could take the money from than taking it from the pensioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181318	It is clear that, overall, all things are, of course, about the government's priorities. And there we basically disagree with a large number of the priorities that the government is making. Here I have to consider whether I think that the amount for pensioners should be adjusted at the same rates as for cash benefits recipients, students and others on transfer. There I find it strange that there is a group that has a higher regulation than everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181346	But there are two options when it comes to putting the two regulations on an equal footing. There is no need to make a group poorer because another group is. Well, I mean, where's the logic of that? I also asked whether it really is a radical policy to take money from 132 000 pensioners, let alone to talk about the strange thing about the fact that you are now going to build the air castle that you can make cheaper housing. Well, I mean, we've seen up in Thisted how to make cheaper homes. There are people living in tents. Is that really what pensioners are going to do in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181423	The conclusion reached by the rapporteur was a little far-fetched. I think the rapporteur knows very well what the Radical Left thinks of the horrible conditions that the government is offering refugees. So this is basically about the • and there I agree with Mr. Christian Juhl to disagree with him, completely disagrees with how we regulate the transfer income rates. Now it is the case that they are regulated by price and other rates, and that is why we also think it is right that this should be done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181458	Then there are no more questioners and the rapporteur has resigned. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181509	How small can it really be for the government? Well, we've got a little of the answer to that here, because this law sets a new low standard. "How low can you go?" the blue parties sang when they made this deal; the champagne corks jumped at the Liberal Alliance; the Conservatives could hardly be in their conservative bodies; and the Danish People's Party snuck along the foot panels out of the party room. Elders The case writes to us that the law will have a number of unfair effects, especially for the residents of elderly homes, who will experience significant reductions in housing benefits and thus in their already very low level of availability. Danske Handicaporganisationer (Danish Handicap Organisation) states that many early-retirement workers in the transition to a pension receive significantly less money, and with this deterioration they may not be able to stay. Yes, the traditional bourgeois parties are so well aware of their antisocial profile, and they are not even trying to keep a mask in front of their faces. The Danish People's Party, on the other hand, tries to stand out a little from the other parties on the right. It often happens with sweet words about the elderly and about people with little money. Therefore, we have to say that this law, with the support of the Danish People's Party, is a breach of the Richter scale. This law will move millions from tenants with small incomes to owners of especially large houses. Pensioners are supposed to pay for the party in the wealthy villagers north of Copenhagen. We think this is an exceptionally bad idea and distribution policy when it is worst.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181700	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber, so we move on to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181718	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the favourable treatment of the bill amending the law on individual housing subsidies. After all, the purpose of the draft law is to amend certain special rules in the Housing Aid Act, which have helped to increase the average level of aid and which are not particularly targeted in relation to the beneficiary's income. The proposal must be seen in the context of the fact that the total cost of housing benefits has shown real growth of approx. 13% Since 2001 and today, approx. 10 billion kr. The draft law therefore contains the following amendments: a change in the adjustment of the limits for housing benefits, so that the annual adjustment follows consumer prices, as is the case with housing insurance. A gradual abolition of the calculation technical supplement to the rent, so that housing benefits are calculated in the future on the basis of the actual rent. The introduction of a ceiling on eligible rents in elderly dwellings. The ceiling shall be introduced only for newly appointed elderly people after 2020. And then a gradual relaxation of the self-payment requirement. Overall, the draft law provides for a strengthening of public finances after tax and reflows by approx. 90 million kr. In 2016, growing to approx. 480 million kr. in 2020. Following on from our discussions today, I would like to make it clear that the rules on housing benefits will continue to be more favourable than the rules on housing security. The change in the benefit per person for most recipients, the household will be relatively modest and the change will be phased in over a number of years up to 2020. In addition, the reduction of self-payment contributes to ensuring that the economically disadvantaged pensioners are only less affected by the changed rules, while at the same time the introduction of a ceiling on eligible rents must support municipalities and builders' focus on the cost-effective construction and efficient operation of older housing. Thank you for your contributions today and I look forward to a constructive discussion of the proposal in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181943	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208181954	When a government makes a bill, it usually is because the government thinks it would be a very good idea if that bill were adopted. Does the Minister for Employment think that it is a good idea to make 100,000 Danish pensioners poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182014	I think it is, of course, a good idea to put forward this bill, and I think it is a very good idea to abolish the over-regulation that is taking place so that we ensure that the regulation of housing benefits in the future is based on actual rent and not on artificial or politically created calculation thresholds and concepts, as it has been up to now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182038	Now the Minister has been part of Christiansborg for a few months, and I can hear that the Minister has learned not to answer the questions. But this bill means that you take hundreds of millions of dollars a year from the Danish folk pensioners. Does the Minister for Employment think this is a good idea? We are talking about people who for the most part have worked their entire lives, contributing to Danish society. Is it good, sensible policy to make these people poorer? That is, of course, the consequence of the legislative proposal we are debating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182117	We are dealing with a bill on housing benefits, and what we are ensuring with the proposal is that the housing benefits you receive for the future reflect the actual price increases in your housing, and I think that is actually a very good idea, so that we see that housing security and housing benefits are developing approximately in the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182139	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182143	Sir. Minister, I think that the pensioners who lose 3,000 or 5,000 or 6,000 kroner. In fact, it does not matter whether the Minister calls it over-regulation or whether the Minister thinks it will be equivalent to some other benefits. For the pensioners, and this is one of Denmark's poorest groups, it just means that they have less money to live for. It's as simple as that. That's what this bill is about. Everything else is just bureaucratic chatter. It's money out of the pockets of the folk pensionists. Period. But I really want to ask the Minister something, because we heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say before that it was necessary to support this because otherwise the government would have to be overthrown. I would just like to know if the Minister can confirm that this was the case during the financial negotiations that, if the Danish People's Party did not support this, the government would have resigned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182243	I have no knowledge of the latter, so I can't comment on that. But I have a knowledge that nothing is taken out of the pocket of anyone. What we are ensuring with the bill is that in future we will receive fair compensation for the rent increases that occur when you receive housing benefits and no longer receive overcompensation that is unbalanced with housing security.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182308	As a service to the pensioners out there, I would say that what the Minister for Employment just said was that, yes, the pensioners will have less to live on in the future than they would have had if we had not adopted this proposal. I think we can agree on that, sir. Minister of Employment. But just to follow up on my previous question: can the Minister confirm that if the Danish People's Party today votes against this proposal, the government will resign? This was the impression that was given by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182335	I have no basis whatsoever for making any statements about the constitution or the operation of the government. I can only comment on this bill. I hope it will be adopted and I think it is perfectly reasonable that housing benefits should be regulated in line with the increase in housing prices and not on a fictitious, artificially created basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182358	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182401	Thank you. Will the Minister withdraw the words he said when he said that it is not right for money to be taken out of the pockets of anyone? That does not correspond to what is described in the draft law. Then the Minister will confirm that, according to the Minister's own figures, the abolition of the calculation technical supplement hits 132,000 pensioners who, on average, lose about 200,000. 3,700 kr. A year after tax? Will the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182436	I can confirm that in future a little less money will be taken up by the State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182456	I would certainly have expected the Minister to remain silent, but I did not expect the Minister to stand on the floor of the Parliament and say something that is quite wrong. After all, it is quite wrong for the Minister to say that this bill does not mean taking money out of the pockets of pensioners. That's not true. It is clear from the government's own comments and calculations and economic assumptions that this is being done because the phasing-out and abolition of the calculation technical supplement also affects thousands of living pensioners. Will the Minister be so kind and kind and confirm that it is true what I am saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182533	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182535	I would like to confirm that there are beneficiaries of housing subsidies that are affected by the implementation of the bill in the sense that in future there will be a slight increase in the development of housing subsidies, precisely because we want housing subsidies to evolve in line with the actual price increases in housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182555	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182600	Thank you. In the course of this afternoon's debate, we have discussed a great deal of how hard this social imbalance, like it, is going through. Would the Minister not just confirm, for the sake of good order, that those who are hit hardest by these deteriorations in housing benefits are the elderly who have low incomes and high rents? There are some who have then been tried to relieve a tiny bit of the effects of it, namely those who have both a low income and a lower rent. But those who get hit hardest by this are those who have a low income and a high rent, i.e.. also those who live in the most expensive and newly built elderly homes. Would the Minister not just confirm this in the Chamber for the sake of good order?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182648	Apart from the compensation paid separately for the lowest incomes, I can confirm that there is a relation between income levels in addition and rent levels which may mean that people with medium-low incomes will experience less regulation than now in housing support, because housing support regulations are becoming more consistent with the actual price increase in housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182726	The reason why I am asking is because the Elders case in its hearing has said that just this group, which has both a low income and a high rent, are some of those who are also going to have the hardest time sitting in their homes. And it is also very, very difficult for them to be assigned a different kind of accommodation. We are then in a situation where we can risk simply not having housing available to this new group of people who have experienced such a marked deterioration in their income. And on top of that, this government has decided that it will not allow new homes to be built, as otherwise planned. Will the Minister not comment on what the Elders case says in the hearing answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182809	Now there are several elements in the bill, including elements that seek to create incentives for older housing to be built at a lower price level for the future, because there will be healthier incentives for it. The second point I would like to draw attention to is that it has been calculated how much the individual family in the present is being affected by this change of regulation, and this has been taken into account with transitional arrangements in such a way that it is not massive changes that each family is confronted with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182845	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182849	I would like to say to the Minister that sometimes I go to universities and it happens that I say: Hey, would you please speak Danish so you can understand what you are talking about? When pensioners lose some money, you take something from them, and you can rub it into some nice talk, but I wouldn't have thought this minister would do that. Tell me honestly when you make a decision: We take money from you, yes, that's right. If that's what you're doing and it is. What I would like to ask is: which of the parties in this conciliation has, in the view of the Minister, given proper information to pensioners during the election campaign, namely that they would come and take money from them and that they would change their housing subsidy options? Which of the parties, the Left, the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and now also the Radical Left, have said in the election campaign: yes, we will do that when we get into government or when we get an opportunity for it in the Parliamentary Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208182951	During the election campaign, all those parties have indicated that they were interested in making the necessary priorities to be made in Denmark to ensure that we have the money to finance our core welfare. This is among other things. In relation to the elderly. That is why we must also be careful not to have regulatory arrangements for the future based on fictitious amounts, but to regulate compensation amounts according to the actual costs that exist. And that's what's in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183022	I don't know if I should laugh or cry about the Minister's language. None of these parties has said anything at any of the more than 30 meetings I attended in the election campaign that they would regulate pensioners' housing subsidies. No and it was otherwise leading politicians, for most of them are currently in parliament. Can we simply ask: has the Minister's own party informed pensioners about this? Not about all the chatter he told us about before, but about whether money is being taken from their regulation of housing benefits. Yes or no, I almost said, not all that academic talk, but clear message.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183104	The clear message is that it is very important for the Left to secure the necessary funds to finance our core welfare in the coming years. This means that we must be keen on how we spend the money, and it must be clear what the money is spent on and on what basis of assessment. The basis for calculating housing benefits is fictitious, and everyone must have an interest in being coordinated with the regulatory basis, which is the actual price development of housing expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183137	There are no more brief comments. The questioner's had two rounds. So we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183200	The debate is open. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183225	Thank you, sir. President. At the Social Democratic Congress in September, my President called for a national compromise in the field of foreigners. It rejected the Left at the time, but fortunately reality caught up with them, and we have then got the Left to think differently. Because in Denmark there is a need for broad cooperation in the field of foreigners, cooperation that can provide sustainable solutions to the serious challenges we face, and cooperation that ensures that we can keep up with and make integration work. That is why I am also pleased that there is a broad agreement on the conditions for citizenship on the basis of the draft law we are considering today. It is an agreement that ensures calm about the requirements attached to obtaining Danish citizenship. I think we owe this to the citizens who work hard to become Danish citizens. In the Social Democratic Party we hope that when you choose to live your life in Denmark, you apply for citizenship. We Danes have many colours, ethnicities and religions. You do not have to live in a special or a specific way to be a Danish citizen. Diversity makes our community richer. But one must want our community, where we meet each other with expectations, contribute and seize each other if life is difficult and where we talk in Danish, in Danish at school, in jobs and in the democratic debate. We think it is right that there are requirements attached to Danish citizenship. One must be able to support oneself, comply with the laws of the country, know the organization of society and the democratic institutions and master the Danish language, so that one can actively participate in the communities in which one is part of. We believe that a common language and culture play an important role, as it makes joint conversation possible and creates cohesion across ethnic, geographical, religious and social divides. With this bill, we're introducing a new citizenship test. The birth test will replace the present citizenship test. In future, 32 out of 40 questions must be answered correctly instead of 22 out of 30 questions, and in future more emphasis will be placed on Danish culture and history. We think that is a good starting point. Much more cannot be said at this stage, because we have not yet seen the questions which are the basis of the test. So I have heard the following criticism put forward: Can it really be true that young people who have been born and raised in Denmark, young people who have attended Danish school and see Denmark as their own country, must pass a test to prove their Danishness? Are they not as Danish as all of us? Well, they are just as Danish as all of us, but not in the sense of the constitution. This means that they are not Danish citizens legally, and if you want to be a Danish citizen with the rights that go with it, it means that you have to pass a citizenship test. In my view, there is no problem in having to pass a test of citizenship, as there are many facets in Danish society that require a test. It is simple right and duty. As I said, I am pleased that there has been broad political agreement on the conditions for citizenship. There is now a fine starting point for a citizenship test. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183551	Thank you. There is, for the time being, one brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183558	In fact, when the Social Democrats were in government, the Social Democrats joined forces with others. Enhedslisten to abolish the VKO birthright test, as such it is what is being reinstated now. It was one of those things. with the argument that it seemed that the historical issues did not belong in such a test, for example, which country bombarded Copenhagen in 1807. What has caused the Socialists to change their attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183632	We have given priority to the question of language • that you should be able to speak the Danish language. And it is clear that then we will enter into a debate when we sit with other parties, in this case the bourgeois. There is no doubt that forward-looking we would of course like to discuss, including in committee work, what requirements should be in relation to history and culture etc., but we do not see any problem in that one must be able to meet basic requirements in the field of history and culture in order to be a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183704	Okay, but does that mean that the Social Democrats' message from Parliament's platform today is that one is real Dane only if one can answer which country bombarded Copenhagen in 1807, or who Tycho Brahe was? What about all the citizens of Denmark who cannot answer such questions and who have lived here in Denmark for many generations? Aren't they real Danes? I would also like to ask: does the Socialist rapporteur think that this test will make it harder for people who do not have a long education behind them to become Danish citizens? Because I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183747	There is, of course, no problem in making a test, which consists of some questions that need to be read out. That means reading the answers and practicing them. We in the Social Democratic Party think that it is a sign of health if you want to show an interest in the country in which you now live and want to be a national. That is why we do not think there is anything wrong with the fact that we should, of course, read up on the country in question, that is. in this case Denmark, both history and, of course, culture. It is a question of reading; it is not a question of being able to do so on the spine after many years for that matter. This is a test like so many others, it's some kind of exam. I don't remember everything I've learned in the 9th grade, 10th grade, high school, etc. There is a lot of what I have forgotten, but yet I read it out because I wanted to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183819	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183847	Thank you. I think the rapporteur said that this is a matter of technical or legal constitution. And then the rapporteur also said that it is a question of reading. But for me, this is all about having to pass some demands to become a Dane. You know, you're a Dane when you're a citizen. Then you are part of Danish society. There I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that it makes a more Danish idea to know when Iceland broke off from Denmark. Make it a more Danish than those who do not know, if you are otherwise self-supporting, contribute to Danish society and go down and vote in elections etc. etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208183926	It will be very much the same answer that I just gave to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, and that is that of course this is not a question of knowing some facts. After all, it is not a question of being able to say exactly what happened in 1864. This is a matter of showing interest in a country's language and culture and, in this case, history. And we really don't think there's anything wrong with that. There is nothing wrong with reading something to understand and help to see why a country like Denmark is now as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184007	You can read, yes. I just still don't think you're getting more Danish by remembering something for a month. It's more the principle of what good it does for Denmark that these people can do this. I would like to ask the rapporteur why the Socialists believe that the new test, that is, the test of citizenship, that is to say, the re-establishment, is better than the one we did together when we sat in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184030	There is no doubt that, in the negotiations we had up to 5 October, we gave particular priority to language requirements in the test of citizenship. And as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, it was a question of this being a debate, in this case with the bourgeois. This meant that we gave priority to the language requirement and helped to get it through. And, of course, there are other things that you don't get with. That is how it is in a negotiating situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184104	The next is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184107	When was the tape removed in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184118	I can almost figure out that it has to be a question that if you do not know when the tape was removed in Denmark, then you are not really a Dane. But once again I can only say that this is a question of showing an interest in this country to which you are now coming and where you want citizenship. It may well be that you read up on some things and that you memorize them, and then you forget them later, and that's the way it is. As I also said earlier, I cannot remember everything I was now learning in history in the 6th, 7th and 8th classes, or for that matter earlier or later, but I cannot, yet I read it out, because there were some demands now being made for me to move on in this society, and there are many demands being made. Demands are made throughout one's life in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184205	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184207	I do not have any more questions, but I would just like to say that it is a little strange that the Socialist rapporteur himself cannot answer one of the questions that will be asked in the test to see if they are Danish enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184224	I mean, I feel like Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184232	The next one is sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184235	I believe that many of them too will be excluded from citizenship, just as the rapporteur does. The aim of this proposal, which cannot be seen in isolation from all the other restrictions on citizenship which have been implemented and which will affect, among other things, the Member States. People who, for various reasons, find it difficult to pass this test are, of course, that fewer people have to acquire citizenship, and that will also be the consequence. I have a question for the rapporteur. Is it positive for integration that we will have a larger and larger group of citizens living in our societies, many of whom have been born here and many of whom want to be part of Danish society, but who are a kind of second-class citizens, because they cannot acquire citizenship because of the many tighter demands that are now being made? And does the rapporteur think that this is something that will make us come closer together and will make these people move closer to our society, or is it the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184338	There's no doubt that this question is a lot about symbolism. It is true that if there are stricter requirements and if there are more stringent requirements, as in this case a language requirement, then some will have more difficulty in doing so. But now it is the case that we, who sit on the Committee on Bodily Rights, have an opportunity to grant dispensations if we do not have the possibility of remaining, in relation to the requirements in question which are now in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184401	Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184403	I don't really think I got an answer to the question I was trying to ask. The consequence of the things that are happening now is that in Denmark, if you can say so, we will have a B-team that is growing bigger and bigger, that is people who live here, and many are born here, but who cannot be part of society in the same way as us, i.e. the definition of an increasingly larger group of people. What will it have to do with consequences, the rapporteur believes, for our chances of having a good life together here in Denmark, that we get this division and this growing group of B-citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184444	There is no doubt that if there are some citizens who find it difficult to meet some of the demands, they must of course have as much support and as much help as possible. But it does not matter that, in order to be able to cope with these demands, we must put some work into it and in some cases, and for some people too, hard work. But, of course, if you find it difficult to accept it, you need that help, so you now have the opportunity to pass the right of birth test in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184509	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the series of rapporteurs. The next one is sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208184524	I can only say at the outset that we are voting in favour of the proposal in question. The proposal is part of the agreement that we reached with the government and the Social Democratic Party in October 2015, and it meets our persistent demand to improve the test of citizenship, and we believe that this has now happened. The history is of course known to most of us here in the high things, but I would like to summarize. In 2013, the Social Democratic led government, together with Enhedslisten, concluded an agreement on citizenship, which resulted in significant reductions, among others. with regard to language requirements and citizenship tests, which is why we voted against. Now is the time to rectify this bill and others, and we are pleased that after the elections the Socialists have changed their side and changed their position and have agreed to the new agreement. This ensures that a fixed course has been established in the years to come. With the present bill on a new citizenship test, there has been a significant improvement in relation to the requirements for knowledge of Danish culture and history, and this is crucial. When people come here as strangers in relation to Denmark, it is crucial that they get a knowledge of how Denmark is connected, and a knowledge is gained by understanding Danish culture and history in such a large way. Humans are pr. definition of a historical being, and our cultural baggage is very much the framework for the way we live and understand ourselves and Danish society. So it is important that people who want to be citizens are given a knowledge of Denmark and the cultural and historical foundations on which it is based. Here there must be some necessary requirements so that the person who wants to be a Danish citizen also knows something about Denmark and about the country's culture and history, and that is why we are doing this citizenship test. The test is based on the multiple choice model, which means that you will actually have more options to choose from in relation to answering each question. There are 40 questions, 32 of which must be answered correctly. And then five of the questions are topical questions. I assume that this concerns the issues that are currently up to date. The rest will be linked to a textbook. In fact, the test will take place as for example. a 9th grade examination. You prepare by reading, and you will then go up to the exam in the material you have prepared for. It is therefore not a matter of getting up in totally unknown matter, but precisely in matter which dared to be familiar if one has read. I mention this because in the press and among politicians the myth has been conjured up that the test is such a professor's test in readiness, where one should almost stand up at night and answer a question, no matter what it is. We are delighted that there will be a proper test. Citizenship is a reward for proper integration, and part of integration is that you know something about Danish culture and about Denmark's history, and DF votes yes, as I said. Then I would like to finish by mentioning that Mrs Lotte Rod asked about the abolition of the tape in 1788. But I would like to say that it is quite important that we do not have the tape in Denmark, and that is, in fact, the very purpose of asking the question: that we should take a position on the fact that we do not have tape in Denmark. So I think the question is relevant. There are a number of specific issues which are linked to a year in which it is the factual, fundamental issue that is crucial. It is just as with women's voting rights in 1915. It is not 1915, as it were, that is the decisive factor, but that is the fact that women have the right to vote. So I think the question is relevant. There would certainly be some questions that I could not answer in that test if I just took it, but now I have taken it sometimes and I think it has been very good. But I'll bet if I prepare for it, I'll be able to take that test at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208185028	Thank you. There are no requests for short remarks. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208185041	Thank you. The last time I stood here on the platform in connection with something about citizenship, I quoted Shu-bi-dua. Now I will move on and come to Grundtvig, who was a hymnist, but was also a Liberal and a member of the Folketing. When Grundtvig had to explain what it means to belong to a people, he said, "To a people they all hear/like themselves." Then many sentence there, and do not go forward, but Grundtvig went on to say: "Have a mother's ear, and have a father's country fire. These are terms that we would like to see clarified when we give citizenship to a person who wants it and who considers himself to be the Danish people. We would then like to check whether the person concerned is now also in favour of the mother tongue, i.e. can the Danish language, and has for the homeland fire. See, it can be a little difficult to check how much a person is passionate about Denmark, but one thing you can at least check is whether the person knows anything about Denmark, cares about Denmark, cares about current social issues • it is important • but also cares about Danish cultural life and Danish history and has a knowledge. One can take some of the questions that have been in the birth test and laugh a little bit of them and say: Can't a person be a Dane without knowing when the tape was lifted? By the way, it was not fully repealed until 1800. It began in 1788, but it was not fully abolished until 1800. Of course you can. But common to the questions we ask is that these are questions that very many Danes can answer, and questions that virtually no Swedes or Norwegians or Germans or Australians can answer. For these are questions that relate to Denmark and to our culture and our history. I can also answer the question put by the Socialist rapporteur, namely when the 1864 war took place. It took place in 1864. However, I can tell you that the questions that come to the test will probably be a little more difficult than the question put by the Socialists. Besides having a common history, we also have a common language. That was the first part of Grundtvig's quote. I was involved in a radio broadcast about precisely these stricter requirements, where one of the listeners called in and actually said it so snuglyly: It would be a bit funny if during the summer holiday you were in a swimming pool on Tenerife and then found out that there was another Dane at the hotel, and then we couldn't talk. He's absolutely right about that. Of course, it is important that we have our common language, because we are different in so many areas, but we have one thing that binds us together as people, and that is our common language. What we are doing today is that we are implementing the agreement reached on 5 October on a broad political agreement involving both the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party and, of course, the governing party, the Left. Much of this can be done in circular form, but what we are doing now is that we give the Minister the authority to draw up a list of questions, a new citizenship test, which will then be called a citizenship test, where there will be 40 questions. It is multiple choice, as it is called in Danish. Well, there are several different options, and then there are also textbook material. It's kind of like taking a driving test. Then there's a theory book that you can beat through so you can answer the questions for the test itself. It's gonna be the same here. There will also be some topical questions to which you have to answer and which you can answer if you just follow the social debate a little bit. So, in conclusion, we think that these are quite reasonable and sensible demands to make. However, I would also like to thank the Socialists in particular for their success in reaching a broad agreement. For many years this area has been a bit on a slinging course. Then there was one government, and then another government came, and then you changed everything, and then we came back to it, and then we change everything. Now we know that if at some point, and this cannot be completely excluded, a social democratic government comes back, this area will not have to be thrown into another major upheaval, but we have the rules that we have, and hopefully they will continue in a more or less unchanged form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208185541	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208185551	Which country bombarded Copenhagen in 1807? What was the name of the famous Danish sculptor who lived from 1770 to 1844? Was Tycho Brahe a bishop, an artist or a scientist? These were some of the questions that could arise before Enhedslisten joined the then government in 2013 in abolishing it and introducing a more reasonable citizenship test. In the Enhedslisten we do not believe that it makes sense to hold such a Danishness test at all. I think it is far-fetched to imagine that Danishism can be formalized in this way. Furthermore, there is no doubt that those applicants who are not used to going to school and memorizing will have significantly more difficulty passing this test than the applicants who are used to going to school and reading books and learning by heart. If I then say that the citizenship test that we have today is something more reasonable than the one that the right and the Socialists are now going to introduce, then it is because we will return to those deeply irrelevant historical issues. There are very many people who have been Danish all their lives, who cannot tell that it was Britain who was responsible for the bombing in 1807, or that Tycho Brahe was neither a painter nor a bishop, but was an astronomer. As I see it, it says nothing about whether a person is a Dane or not, and I really think that the Socialist rapporteur said so well because the rapporteur was unable to answer one of the questions that has previously been included in this test of citizenship. The rapporteur said: but I feel Danish. I believe that the vast majority of young people who were born here in Denmark, who have attended school in Denmark, who have grown up in Denmark and have lived their entire lives in Denmark, feel Danish, even if they, like the Socialist rapporteur, cannot answer when the tape was introduced and when it was abolished. I have no doubt that the purpose of these harder questions, the purpose of now being able to answer more questions and have more real ones, is to prevent more people from acquiring Danish citizenship. I just have to say that I simply do not understand the logic. Do you really think that it will strengthen the integration and cohesion of Denmark that the number of people living here in Denmark without full rights is increasing? Do you really think that it will be good for our cohesion that more people will live in Denmark, perhaps their entire lives, but without, for example, the fact that they are not living in Denmark? to have the right to vote in our parliamentary elections? Who's gonna benefit? What's it good for? So not the cohesion or integration. In 2013, the Social Democrats reached a sensible agreement with, among others, one. Enhedslisten to do a more reasonable citizenship test. I think it is really a pity that the Socialists have now joined the Danish People's Party car to try to prevent people living here in Denmark and living here in Denmark from having full rights. In fact, I would like to comment on the fact that the test will also apply to young people born in Denmark. I have spoken to some of the young people who have previously been subjected to VKO's citizenship test, and they were all deeply puzzled that they were suddenly about to be tested for whether they were real Danes as well. What kind of signal is it to send to young people who were born in this country to dunk them on top of their heads and say: You may think you're Danish, but now we're telling you that you're not as Danish as the rest of us? Again, I have to ask, Who do you think that benefits? The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal. And, as I said, I think the Socialist rapporteur said it so precisely because the rapporteur was unable to answer when the tape was removed, and the rapporteur said: 'Well, I feel Danish'. There are a great many people who, with the new rules, will be prevented from acquiring citizenship, who feel exactly as Danish as the Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190036	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190043	Thank you. I would like to ask how many months of voluntary military service are going on. Then I would like to ask what is taught to graduate students. And then I would like to ask what an eux process is; what year Denmark got its first female minister; and how much of the gross domestic product goes to the social tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190106	Why would the rapporteur want to ask me that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190108	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190110	I believe that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is so gifted that she can figure that out herself. That is because these are the issues that were included in the citizenship test that the previous government had and that were supported by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190127	If the Left rapporteur listened to my speech, he would have heard that the position of the Enhedslisten is that we should not have such a test at all. Because I think it is profoundly foolish to imagine that in this way you can put Danishness on a formal basis. I am certainly not enthusiastic about the citizenship test either, but the citizenship test was, after all, better than the citizenship test that we are now returning to, because there were fewer questions about Struensee and the Kalmar Union. I have to say that I simply lack answers from the right, from the Socialists to why it is that people have to be tested in this way. How does the rapporteur of the Left think that a young person born in Denmark sees such a test?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190221	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190226	There are, among other things, in the citizenship test. a question of when the Catholic Church was broken in Denmark. Well, I know, it was at the Reformation in 1536. This is the citizenship test that Enhedslisten is behind. I have to say quite frankly that when Enhedslisten went out and flagged with their backing for this agreement, that was their agreement, I think it is strange that you have a citizenship test full of years, which Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen does not want to know. Take responsibility for the debate and the agreement reached at that time in 2013, instead of running away from it now. I simply think it is a strange form, also because the rapporteur has just criticized us for the test of citizenship, which no one knows yet, but for which there are some years. And then there has been support for an agreement in which there is a test where there is a question of the year of reformation. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190411	I can very few years, I'm extremely bad at remembering that kind of thing, but exactly 1536 I can, because Vissenbjerg Taxi has 64 47 15 36, and we learned that when I went to Pastor Bang in Vissenbjerg. I don't think it's that hard to understand, sir. Christian Langballe. Enhedslisten's position is that it's crazy to put Danishness on the formula this way. And I think it's particularly crazy that young people born in Denmark should be knocked in the head with one of those you're not really Danish-tests. There is no doubt that the citizenship test that we had introduced with the Socialists was, after all, a step in the right direction, because we had to have fewer correct answers and because we had some of the stuff about Struensee and the Kalmar Union tampered with. But the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is quite right to say that if it were for the Enhedslisten, we should not have such a test. And that's because I think it's irrelevant to whether you're Danish that you're good at ready knowledge, even if the Reformation is a year, which I happen to have got knocked into the head by Pastor Bang from Vissenbjerg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190516	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190517	Now it is always good to be able to reformate the year, I would say 1536. I got it knocked into my head, too. But I think there's something strange about the fact that as soon as it's about whether Enhedslisten takes responsibility for the agreements they're behind, there's always some monkey dabei. There is always something about the fact that you do not want to do that anyway, and I think that is a strange attitude. I certainly believe that the Enhedslisten was out to take credit for the agreement and praise the agreement, and now suddenly we do not want to be aware of the agreement we have made ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190600	Ah, sir. Christian Langballe has been at Christiansborg for a while now, and Mr. Christian Langballe knows that in the vast majority of negotiations it is a question of pulling it in the direction you think is sensible. For example, I have. helped to introduce a ceiling on the class ratio at secondary schools of 28. I liked that ceiling. I'd rather have a 24-year-old. What is Enhedslisten's policy? Enhedslisten's policy is that a ceiling of 24 would be best. It's kind of the same with this citizenship test. I think it would be so sensible to abolish this Danish test, but I think it is better to have a test where you need fewer correct answers and where there are fewer historical questions than having the VKO test that is now being reinstated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190647	Sir. Naser Khader to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190651	Thank you. I thought Enhedslisten was so preoccupied with the process that you don't just have to get up for the test, but you have to prepare to get up for the test. And there you learn a lot. You learn things you didn't really know in advance. So I do not understand why Enhedslisten has something against the process itself and the fact that you can then some figures and some events that are important to understand what it is for a country you live in and must have citizenship in. But what I want to ask is: What does the Enhedslisten think it takes to obtain citizenship? What kind of demands would Enhedslisten make if Enhedslisten had 90 mandates?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190735	Well, I'd like to say to Mr. Naser Khader said I'm sorry, but the process I didn't understand. I think it was some kind of joke. It may be, sir. Naser Khader can elaborate on it. I didn't understand the process. Memorizing has never been an educational grip, Enhedslisten has supported much. What does it take to obtain Danish citizenship? Yes, if it were up to me, it was actually the case that if you were born in Denmark, you automatically get Danish citizenship. If you weren't born in Denmark, what's it gonna take? I think it is sensible to make some Danish demands, i.e. some demands on Danish knowledge. I think it is insanely important that we do not make demands that people do not have an earthly chance of living up to and, unfortunately, I think that the possibilities for exemption are too limited. This puts us in a situation where there are some people who crazyly want Denmark and who do what they can but who are not going to be able to meet the demands that are being made. I think that is stupid, both for the individual and also for Danish society, because I think it is an end in itself to limit the number of people who live in Denmark without full rights, for example. the right to vote in elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190838	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190842	What I mean by the process is that before you go to a test, you sit and prepare. Well, you try to prepare. It's the process I'm thinking about, and that's where you learn a lot. That's what I mean by that. But what I want to ask is: the rapporteur focuses on the fact that if you were born in Denmark, you have the right to have citizenship. What about those who were not born in Denmark? What does it take for them to acquire citizenship? And if you're born in Denmark, is it okay to get citizenship, if you're a criminal, you owe public money or you're a terrorist?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190915	Yes, if you were born in Denmark, I think that citizenship should be granted, and I think that citizenship should be granted from birth. Few babies are terrorists or owe public money. If you are not born in Denmark, I think it makes sense, as I said, to make a Danish claim, but I think it is very important that the Danish requirement is actually a requirement to which the people you are demanding have a realistic chance of meeting. I certainly do not think that the derogations are good enough today. And, as I have said, it is really crucial to me for cohesion that we do not have a large group of citizens in Denmark who do not have full rights. We will have more of these with this legislation, and I think that is a major problem for cohesion in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208190958	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Leif Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208191010	Thank you. At any rate, we find that the latest test of birth was not good, and the previous government was not good either. So we can simply say that there is a heavy yoke on the Minister, because what we are discussing here is, in fact, just a permit for the Minister to make a test. So now there is a heavy yoke resting on the Minister's shoulders to make a test that some might be thrilled about. One might also get the impression that this is the whole set of rules for Danish citizenship. Actually, it's only the small corner of the birth test we're talking about. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who said with satisfaction that the group that is adopting this proposal is of a nature that can be expected that there will not necessarily be any change again on the day it will probably take a long time if there is to be a change of government and there will then be a desire to change it again. It is, in fact, the most bad thing to say about the whole process and the content that has been, namely that there is no continuity and that it cannot be expected to work in the long term. So we support this proposal as a corner of the whole agreement on citizenship and Danish citizenship, in which we will be dealing later with the other part of the proposal. So we have no problem with having to carry out such a test, and as has been said, the reality is that in this way it is something to be practiced, to get to know, and when you do, you will also be able to learn from normal learning, that is to say, learning, so that you can also acquire the Danish language, to deal with the type of questions that I believe will be the result of this. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208191220	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208191236	Thank you for the floor. In fact, I find it a little depressing to have to stand here today. The aim of this proposal is primarily to replace the current citizenship test with the 2015 citizenship test, and the proposal is one of several measures to make it more difficult for foreigners to obtain Danish citizenship. All of us in this Chamber are just so privileged to have this Chamber as a place of work, and if anyone can understand how important and meaningful it is to be able to influence the society in which one lives, how important it is to be able to make full use of its democratic civil rights and how important it is to feel as an equal citizen of the country one considers to be one's. When a foreigner seeks to become a Danish citizen, we as a society should rejoice that he or she wants to become a permanent part of us on an equal footing with the other citizens of the country and take an active part and responsibility for Denmark. And yes, they feel like Danish at the time they apply for citizenship, and the fact that consistently tightening the rules for young people born in Denmark is incomprehensible to me. The alternative does not agree that there is a need to further complicate the path of foreigners to Danish citizenship. On the contrary, we believe that the granting of political rights has an important role to play in ensuring good integration into a democratic society such as the Danish one. We must not forget that the decision to change nationality is great and emotional, and so is the disappointment when the desire is not met. In the alternative, we fear that by tightening the demands further, we are cutting off an increasingly large group of people without specific professional skills the opportunity to feel as a democratically equal part of Denmark. I would like to draw attention to the consultation response from the Ethnic Minorities Council, which is certainly a 2010 PISA study which says that for ethnic Danish boys 24 per cent. of them functional illiterates, and that was as high as 51 per cent. among bilingual boys. This means that even if you took this test as Danish, born Danish, you will feel a Danish boy, 24 per cent. of them not have the opportunity to take it. The deprivation that we are now giving these people becomes very concrete and physical when the rest of the population goes to the polls and draws the future of Denmark, while this group is cut off from letting their respective voices be heard. Such a situation is not conducive to the individual's association with society or to integration as a whole. In relation to the specific content of this bill to replace the citizenship test with a new citizenship test, we are therefore critical. We are very reluctant to accept the broad authority given to the Minister in the proposal. We would very much like the details of the appointment, holding and content of the test to be made directly in the legislative text, and we hope that this will be dealt with in the further committee. We also find it inappropriate that the rules in this area should be amended at a time when there is a general insecurity for those people who are simply trying to meet the requirements imposed on them to the best of their ability. The fact that the recent changes are also based on a desire for more difficult conditions and further testing of foreigners applying for Danish citizenship is deeply regrettable. We believe, however, that the motivation to acquire the Danish language and knowledge about Danish society should not lie in the fear of failing, but it should lie in the confidence in the community of which we want everyone to become a complete part, and which we clearly indicate that one is welcome and that one wants. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208191633	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208191642	Thank you. What was the September settlement in 1899 about? When was the bombing of Copenhagen taking place? How many national courts do we have in Denmark? The requirements for ready knowledge of Danish history and culture are high if foreigners want Danish citizenship and go up to the test of citizenship, in fact so high that a very large part of the Danes could not obtain citizenship if they themselves had to go through the test. 20% of the Danes would fail. Young Danes in particular would have problems. 34 per cent 18-29-year-olds cannot answer 32 out of the 40 questions, and women also have more problems with readiness than the average. 28% of the Danish women would be denied citizenship. That was the last time the Left did its test, and what I just said was from an article in Weekly Letter A4 in January 2010. Now we have to do it again. On 5 October, the blue parties and the Socialists reached an agreement on inter alia: a new test of citizenship, and the Foreign Minister said in this regard: the agreement will ensure that those who acquire citizenship are the right ones. It must then mean that in the eyes of the Left, in the Danish People's Party and therefore also in the eyes of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, one is obviously not a real Dane if one is not quite keen on Copenhagen's bombardment or the September settlement • even though the Socialist rapporteur cannot answer the questions himself. It is certainly not bad to be able to do so in Trivial Pursuit or in Bezzerwizzer, but here we are talking about something much more important, namely the possibility of becoming a Danish citizen. Radical Left votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208191843	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208191850	Thank you. I interpret what Mrs Lotte Rod says as saying that there is another party behind the previous government that does not measure up to what was then achieved, namely a citizenship test. For the questions that were asked at the time could, for example, be: be: What is eux, and how many months do you have to serve on voluntary military service if you sign up for it? And then I would like to follow up on the question: if the Radical Left were to decide because I understand that it was not done under the previous government, even if you were part of it, what would it take to obtain Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208191933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208191936	I think that the question of eux is more relevant, because the eux is one of our new upper secondary educations, which it would be very good for all young people to know about. And that is why the answer to the rapporteur from the Left is that we in the Radical Left were opposed to the introduction of the birth test for the first time, but in return we were in favour of the citizenship test because we thought it was a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192004	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192007	I didn't hear that I got answers to so many of my questions. But let's just leave the paramedic stuff alone. Let me repeat my question to the Radical Left: if the Radical Left could decide, perhaps along with the Enhedslisten, I sense that there is some cohesion on this point • what would it be for to obtain Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192030	Then we would like to continue working because we do not believe that quizzing people in their historical knowledge is the best way. We think that other things are more important, for example. to be Danish and self-supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192047	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192051	Now I may have made it sound as if I do not think that knowledge of years is important, but I think that years are something that you would like to address certain issues, and that is why they are good to be able to do. That women were given the right to vote in 1915, I think it is excellent to be able to establish that women and men have equal voting rights in Denmark. I think that is important. But I understand that the rapporteur agrees with the Enhedslisten that this citizenship test was not good, so there are also years in it. In other words, the reason is not that there are dates in, I think is fine, but you run from an agreement, and the Radicals even sat in government there and you sort of run from the agreement you have made. And I think it is pauvert that, when you are in government, you say that you wouldn't anyway. Well, it's a way to run away from everything you really should take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192202	That's bullshit. The Radical Left is very much in line with the law we made at the time, when we replaced the citizenship test, which we thought was wrong, with the citizenship test, which we thought was better. In other words, if we can agree, let us put the proposal back on the table. If the Danish People's Party wishes to participate in this, the Radical Left would very much like to continue to have a citizenship test instead of a new citizenship test.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192225	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192229	I believe that this test of citizenship is better, and that is why we have also been pleased that it came, but on the premise and premise that history and culture are not very important, and that it is such a nonsense that happened sometime in the past, I cannot understand why knowing what eux is should not be a test for Danishness. It's just another test for Danishness. I don't understand. It is a question that is being asked, and is it not a test for Danishism?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192307	If sir... Christian Langballe believes that history doesn't matter, it must stand at his own expense. That is certainly not the position of the Radical Left. We think history is important. What is just the question here is whether we think it makes sense to reinstate a citizenship test where, when you did it last, you could see that it was 20%. by the Danes who could not answer it. In other words, the Socialist rapporteur cannot answer the questions... are you a worse Dane? To that we say: No.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192340	Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192343	I do not think the rapporteur answered the question: what is needed to obtain citizenship according to the Radical Left if you had 90 seats? What kind of demands would you make to grant Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192400	We think that Danish and self-reliance are more important than a history quiz. So if we can find 90 mandates in here and rehearse the test, we would very much like to take part in it. But as I said, and as I also answered Mr. Christian Langballe, at least we think that the citizenship test was much better than the citizenship test that the Left has done once, which the Danes themselves could not answer and which will then be carried out now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192429	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192431	What about anti-Democrats, terrorists? Do they need citizenship? These are not all exceptions, but must they have citizenship? The second question I would like to ask is: the rapporteur has repeatedly used the term'real Danes'. Can the rapporteur define what a wrong Dane is?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192456	It was not really my words that were, in fact, a quote from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In other words, it was the Foreign Minister who said on 5 October, when the proposal for a new citizenship test was submitted, and I quote: the agreement ensures that those who acquire citizenship are the right ones. This must mean that in the Left and in the other parties that support this, which also includes the Conservatives and the Social Democrats, we believe that you are not a real Dane if you cannot answer these questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192531	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192540	Thank you. SF isn't backing this proposal, and I don't think it's gonna come as a sensation. The requirement today is that you should be able to have the Danish language, that you should have lived in Denmark for a long time, that you should be self-supporting, that you should not have debts to the public, and that you should not have committed crime. These are the requirements to become a Danish citizen. It is good requirements that make sense for SF because in many ways they tell something about your association with Denmark. It means something for integration, if you know Danish. We would like to put more effort into helping people learn, because that means something. It says something about your association with Denmark • we believe • how long you have lived here. And you shouldn't commit crime if you want citizenship, because then you're not welcome. By 2013, applicants should also be able to pass a citizenship test in order to become a Danish citizen. I remember when I was in primary school, we were playing with those tests, they were always published on Berlingske and on some news pages, and then we sat and tried them off, and I think, 95%. of us never made it. So we never became Danes. I remember that even then we were wondering why you become a better Dane by knowing who made the Olsen gang, why you become a better Dane by knowing which city Hans Christian Andersen was born in. We were joking with each other, and I figured I'd never have to talk about that with anyone. Now I stand in the Chamber and say the same thing. Do you become a better Dane by being able to answer those questions? I really don't believe that. You can be the best citizen in the world without knowing who Asger Jorn was. You can easily make a huge difference to Danish society, to your fellow citizens, to voluntary association life, to your children, to your school, to your neighbors' children without knowing where Hans Christian Andersen was born. For us, it is not a matter of whether we can do that and the question that is crucial, for us it is quite a matter of principle whether we can become a better Dane by being able to deal with these questions. The answer is no. Is that a good demand, is it better for citizens to have this test? No, we don't think so. So we don't really back it up. If the rapporteurs from the bourgeois parties were to dare to ask me about the citizenship test, then I would also say that it was a step in the right direction. In fact, I think that the issues of the citizenship test, which dealt with modern active political life, made more sense. I think it makes more sense to know something about the new eux reform than it does to know who Asger Jorn was. That is frankly, so yes, it was a step in the right direction, but if I had 90 mandates, this is not what we spent our time on. If I had 90 mandates, we wouldn't have spent our Tuesday evening debating this bill, because then I'd rather spend the time discussing how we ensure good integration, how the many Danes who really want to contribute, who really want to make a difference, get even more into Danish society. So we are voting against this proposal and hope that we can talk more about integration in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192852	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208192904	So it takes something special to move from a citizen to a citizen. I think we can demand much more of people who want to be citizens than of those who want to be citizens. We demand that people be law-abiding, that they have not been in conflict with the law, that they do not owe public money. We demand that they be self-sufficient, and we also demand that they be loyal to our fundamental traditions of democracy and freedom. People who are in favour of the caliphate and similar strange thoughts should not have citizenship. Not least, we are pleased that the citizenship test will be reinstated and made a citizenship test. I think it is extremely important that we know something about the country in which we now have citizenship, and it is also important that this process should take place. When you sit and prepare to come up for the test, you learn a lot of things about the society in which you are to be a citizen. I have looked at the social media, some boast that they have failed the citizenship test. One's historylessness is not something to boast of, and the fact that some Danes cannot do these things should not mean that we then accept that new citizens should not be able to do so. I have compared myself to taking the theory test in connection with driving licences. You learn a lot of things that you can't remember in detail afterwards, but you can remember what is most necessary, and at least it's something you've learned, it's something you've been through and that you've passed. That doesn't mean that if you go up to the test again five years after you know these details. So we think it is very, very sensible to have the birth test introduced, and we support it 100%.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193119	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193124	I'd like to start by asking Mr. Naser Khader, for which King Struensee was a physician. And I would like to ask what the Kalmar Union was, and I would like to ask which sculptor lived in Copenhagen 1770 to 1844. And when sir... Naser Khader has answered the three questions, I would like to ask whether Mr. Naser Khader really believes that this kind of readiness is necessary to be really Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193157	Well, I'm not at the exam here. I'm not on a citizenship test. The rapporteur was also asked some questions which the rapporteur refused to answer. I'm not up for a citizenship test or a citizenship test. I'm not going to answer that. What is important is that people can do so when they are going up to the birth test and that they have been through a process in which they have learned many of the things and also other things about what it is for a society we live in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193224	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193228	One of the differences between Mr. Naser Khader and I are among others. Naser Khader thinks it is very wise to introduce such a test, and I think it is foolish. I do not think it says anything about whether one is Danish, that one can answer which King Struensee was a physician for what the Kalmar Union was and which sculptor lived in Copenhagen from 1770 to 1844. I would really like to know whether the rapporteur is not able to reply at all. And when I think it's relevant, it's because mr. Naser Khader believes that one should be able to answer this kind of question in order to be considered a real Dane. And I don't suppose that's the kind of thing you just have to forget after. Then it doesn't matter. It must be because it's important to know or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193316	Well, what you have to do isn't just a date. It is also contexts, it is Denmark's history, personalities and events. That's what you sit and prepare for when you go up to the birth test. I can answer those questions, but I'm not here for the exam on citizenship. I'm standing on Parliament's platform to say something about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193338	Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193342	Thank you. I would really like to ask the rapporteur what the Social Democrat rapporteur brought up, precisely the feeling of being Danish, i.e. whether that is not what is important and whether that is not what we should focus on in relation to citizenship. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether taking this citizenship test increases the sense of being Danish and whether it increases integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193404	Well, being Danish is a feeling, but we can't test people in that. Being part of the Danish community is also a feeling. But when you have to have citizenship and a Danish passport, there are some formal requirements that you have to meet, among other things. From now on, the birth test. It's not just remembering some numbers, but it's also getting to know the history of Denmark, the biggest events in Denmark, how this society has evolved and what events have been crucial. I assume that you are sitting and preparing for a while in order to be able to answer those questions before going to the test, and that process is extremely important, I think, in order to get to know the new country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193448	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193450	But the rapporteur actually confirmed that the feeling of being Danish cannot actually be examined. And I guess it's the feeling of being Danish that we need to get there. And what about the children born in Denmark?The rapporteur does not believe that they feel like Danish when they are born in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193512	I know many who were born in Denmark with a different ethnic background and who could not dream of saying that they are Danes. Because you are born in Denmark, it does not mean that you go out and say that you are a Dane. I know some people who were born and raised here who say they are something quite different from Danes. That is why I think it is very reasonable to make demands when you want to move from being a citizen to becoming a citizen. Something special needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193544	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193602	It is the Government's wish that the demands made on foreigners who want to be Danish citizens be tightened up. It is something very special to be a Danish citizen. Citizenship means, among other things, that you will have the full political right here in Denmark; therefore, it is also reasonable to require new citizens of Denmark to have knowledge of the political system, a system of which they can become an active part. And it is fair that we demand that those who want to become Danish citizens know about Danish culture, know about the history that has helped shape our country and also the democratic traditions. The government is pleased that on 5 October this year we could conclude a broad political agreement on citizenship with the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. With the bill that we have discussed here today, we are reintroducing the citizenship test and thus reintroducing the requirement that foreigners wishing to become Danish citizens know about Denmark's history and cultural background. Let me conclude by saying that I think that the radical rapporteur, Mrs Lotte Rod, was far out of line when earlier today she quizzed the Socialist rapporteur, Kasper Roug, here in the Chair. In my opinion, it is no place to quizz other members of parliament, let alone a member who is on the platform for the first time. I don't think it's very collegiate, so it's said, and I mean it literally and seriously. The legal procedure that is taking place here in the Parliamentary Chamber is precisely a legal procedure. It is a fundamental and political discussion of the legislative proposals that are under discussion. It is not a quiz. That is why I can already announce that no matter what is asked about things that could be included in a citizenship test or a quiz, I will not reply to that. I am going to answer quite basic political questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193820	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193824	Thank you. Now, of course, the Socialist rapporteur himself has to answer how he experienced the situation in which Mrs Lotte Rod asked. I saw it now as a "what should we say? But full respect for it. I will not ask the Minister any specific questions. So, it is not okay, the Minister thinks that a colleague in the Parliamentary Chamber is being quizzed, comradely and a little humorous, but it is quite all right to quizz people who want to be Danish citizens about something completely indifferent to clarity, who say nothing about their desire and willingness to contribute to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193915	Now that was right enough only a comment, but I would very much like to answer it anyway. When I think that the citizenship test is entirely appropriate, it is of course because it requires a basic knowledge of Danish culture and Danish politics. It is indeed the case that there is a textbook material on which the test is based and that it is quite an excellent reason and opportunity, I would say, to read up on the knowledge of the society of which one actively wants to be a part, because it is an active choice to become a Danish citizen. It must be an active choice and, in my opinion, it must also be something that we must strive to earn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193952	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208193955	I think it is excellent that all foreigners who do not yet have Danish citizenship and Danish citizens are trying to read up on our cultural heritage and our history, and in this there is also a clear knowledge, if you may say so, of concrete things. But why should it be used to assess whether these people are Danish enough to be allowed to become Danish citizens? Should one not take the view that the very fact that they are seeking to become Danish citizens after having been in this country for a long time is precisely an expression of the will of these people to contribute to Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194034	I'm not surprisingly in complete disagreement with sir. Finn Sørensen. I believe that becoming a Danish citizen is actively choosing Denmark as the country to which you belong and that it also means having knowledge of and being able to answer questions about democracy, culture and the society that you now want to become a part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194056	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194059	But what is the Minister's position on 20%? of us Danes cannot answer the questions themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194107	I would like to have so much doubts about the measurement to which Mrs Lotte Rod refers, in that I do not think that all those who have answered the questions relating to the citizenship test have read the textbook material on which they were based.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194121	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194124	What, then, about the quote given by the Minister when the agreement was concluded, namely that it is to ensure that it is the right ones to become Danes? Does the Minister think that you are less real Dane if you cannot answer those questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194142	I would very much rather not have Mrs Lotte Rod rewrite my quotes. What I said at the time was, and that is what Mrs Lotte Rod read out in the second round, that it is the right people who are becoming Danes, in that way earning it, that it is something they are striving for. It was not to be a real Dane, as Mrs Lotte Rod tried to interpret it earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194206	Sir. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194210	I'm kind of preoccupied with the people who might be able to contribute a lot to Danish society, but who just, no matter how much they read up on this material, can't do that. They do not succeed, but they work and they have never committed any crime, they are good fellow citizens, they are active in voluntary association life. Does the Minister not recognise that one can be really, really good for Danish society and also Danes in every way, even if one cannot answer these questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194241	The fact that you do not become a Danish citizen is not the same as the fact that you cannot remain in Denmark and thus also be an active part of Danish society. You are very welcome to be an active and positive player in Denmark, even if you do not get Danish citizenship. However, I think it is quite appropriate that some fundamental, also high, demands should be made to become a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194300	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194302	Yeah, I guess it's gonna be a bit of a repeat. But I also think it's okay to make demands. There may well be high demands on what it takes to become a Danish citizen: you can be a volunteer in association, you can avoid doing crime, you can work. Does it really require you to be able to all these questions before you are a good Danish citizen in the eyes of the Minister? For many it means a great deal to get citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194329	I can say: yes, otherwise I would not have tabled the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194334	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194351	The debate is open. And that is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, who's in charge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194404	Thank you. I think it is a defeat for European cooperation that more countries now have to implement a bill like this. That is why the long-term ambition must also be for the Schengen Agreement to work again. The open borders are a huge gain for trade and association between the peoples of Europe. We can therefore hope that the powers now granted to the Minister will never be used. To hope, however, is not enough, because here and now there is a real risk that we will be faced with a very specific problem within a few weeks. Some 150 asylum seekers arrive in Denmark every day, and in addition, a significantly larger number travels through our country and on to Sweden. In these days, the Swedish authorities, the Swedish Parliament, are discussing a bill from the Swedish Social Democratic Government to introduce ID control on the crossing between Helsingør and Helsingborg, as well as on bus and train traffic on the Øresund Bridge. Sweden has already introduced ID controls on ferries from Germany to Trelleborg. If the Swedes adopt controls at the borders with Denmark, Denmark risks a quite marked increase in the number of asylum seekers. It is against this background that the Socialists support the proposal. In Denmark, we have to assume our share of the refugees and they have to be treated properly, but the Socialists do not want Denmark to be the end of the refugee and migration flows northwards. The model now presented by the government means, in practice, that the Minister is empowered to impose criminal liability on carriers if they bring foreigners without the necessary travel documents and visas to the country from another Schengen country. The penalties may be imposed following the introduction of border controls in accordance with the Schengen Agreement rules on the existence of a serious threat to public policy or internal security. Denmark is therefore following Norway, which has already introduced similar opportunities. Anyone who has read the hearing answers knows that this bill opens up several questions: How can Danish police assist Danish companies who are to carry out checks under criminal liability abroad? Has the Danish Government been in dialogue with the German authorities on the bill, and what are their comments? Can an entity be penalised for missing identity checks carried out by subcontractors? What about blind passengers carrying goods? Will the authorities issue guidance to the carriers concerned before the criminal liability comes into effect? It is the government that has asked for this bill to be dealt with urgently, so we therefore expect the government to be able to resolve all relevant issues in the course of the next few days' committee work. Some of the questions have already been answered in a consultation note we have received today. Others we must follow up on in the coming days. In conclusion, the Socialists would like to acknowledge that the government has finally responded to our desire to prepare the Danish authorities and society for a possible multiple entry rate better late than never. The Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194703	There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194709	Thank you. Can the rapporteur explain where the checks on the identity documents of the persons entering the country of entry are to be carried out? I ask because DSB's Executive Director has stated that this should not be done inside the trains. Today I found an article from Flensburger Tageblatt, where the German federal police say it must not be done on the platform. That's why I'm a little mystified. Where is this to be done in a practical or purely physical way?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194748	Thank you for the question. I understand that the questioner is asking that question, and I also noted the statements made by the DSB. I can then refer here to the Minister's reply to the questioner's own question No. 1. The Minister concludes his reply by saying: "It has not been finally clarified at this stage how to carry out identity checks where appropriate. ▪ I lean on it so, of course, I'm not able to answer it any more than the minister himself is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194814	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194818	I think it is quite worrying that we are rushing through legislation when we cannot actually answer how that legislation will work in practice. Anyway, I'm gonna take this with the control of the minister and not with the rapporteur. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks this is fair to the staff, for example. DSB's employees, to place them in a situation where they have to assess the authenticity of passports and visas, knowing that the employer will be fined a great deal if they come to take someone with them who had a wrong document, and of course also knowing that it will have violent consequences for a person who is rejected on false grounds. Is it a reasonable situation to place employees in?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194904	Thank you for the question, which is really a comment that I would like to comment on first: this bill is not, after all, about introducing border controls; it is about imposing criminal liability on carriers. And that is why I think it is a little unreasonable for the questioner to say that, in the present situation, I or the Minister are not in a position to respond to exactly how border controls are to be introduced, as long as that is not what the draft law is about. To the question, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194940	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208194946	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, and also thank you for one, I think, great honesty, because the rapporteur himself lists a large number of outstanding issues. It was incredibly fast, but in my ears it sounded like very relevant questions, all of which need to be clarified, plus the question put by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Then I do not understand how we can already say that this bill is being supported when there are so many unresolved issues, not least the last one, because, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen asks, what is the legal certainty of the employees who have to check the credentials of foreigners? If the individual employee makes a mistake, where does the responsibility for it end up if the employee who has not treated the refugees properly on some improper basis is brought to justice? And, on the other hand, what about legal certainty for the refugees when they have to be controlled by people who are not trained to look at these papers? So how can you support the bill? In particular, I would also like answers to the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195053	I would like to start by answering how to support the bill. In a situation where there is a serious threat to public policy or internal security and the minister responsible decides to introduce border controls under the Schengen rules, I personally would find it strange if it were not imposed on the carriers who carried people into Denmark without checking their travel home, for example. visa, was okay. I must admit that I have been a little surprised that it is even necessary to implement this kind of legislation. I thought, of course, that it was already an opportunity to give the Minister those powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195140	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195143	Thank you. Now the one question I had was how to take a position on the draft law even now, when you have all the many outstanding questions. How can you say yes to that now when you haven't gotten the answers to all those questions? What do you put them for? It does not really matter when the rapporteur has decided to support the bill. So I think it's kind of the fence in the air. Then I didn't get an answer to that with legal certainty both for the employee and for the foreigners who are being controlled by an employee who isn't trained exactly for that job.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195218	One of the reasons why it can be a little difficult to answer all the questions is that there are so many. So let me reply to the first question asked by the rapporteur: how can the Socialists support a proposal now at first reading when we have not received answers to all the questions we have asked? It is not quite unusual in this Chamber that we can say in general terms that this is a sensible proposal, but that at the same time we have an interest in having some of the doubts raised where I think that both what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says and what Mr Schmidt-Nielsen says. Finn Sørensen repeats and, as can be seen from the consultation answers, is extremely relevant. We would also like to pursue this in the work of the committee. But that does not prevent us from thinking it is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195300	Sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195305	Thank you. The rapporteur says that there are many things that have not been finally clarified, yet the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party support this bill. When I first saw it, I thought that we might be able to support it too, but then when I had read the consultation material, I thought: that is not possible. I have heard the rapporteur ask many of the same questions as I actually ask myself. There's no authority, so is it DSB who's gonna take care of this? And what do they have, for example? of competence to do so? What about the revenue lost by traders? What if there is a violent situation? There are a lot of these kinds of questions. The rapporteur then says that we can be wiser in committee. I think that is a good approach. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur what are the most important demands for the Socialists towards the third reading. Is it that there are officials and that they have the competences? Is it that traders don't lose money? What are the demands of the Socialists?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195359	We are going to support this bill, whether or not anything is added, possibly as a result of a demand from us. We think this is an excellent bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195411	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195414	Thank you for a concrete answer. That was nice. All right, the rapporteur will support a legislative proposal for which the rapporteur has so many questions. I do not, in fact, object to control, but does the rapporteur really think it is good that it is not authorities that control, but people who have no competence to do so? Then I have such a niche question: What about the kids? What about the children who are without papers who want to go to Denmark? Maybe their parents are here. Should the kids be left on the platform? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195449	A number of the questions raised in the consultation answers given, which I think are relevant, are generally relevant, but they are not specifically about this bill. This bill is about imposing criminal liability on carriers if they transport people across a border where border controls have been introduced under the Schengen acquis. That does not change the fact that a number of the issues, including the last one, which Mr. Jacob Mark's asking is very relevant. And I think we should put them this evening during the technical review. However, it is not a question of whether it is sensible to impose criminal liability on carriers. I actually think that SF, which is a party I have great love for, should support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195532	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195544	Thank you. The Danish People's Party supports this bill. In the discussions that have taken place with the government, we asked for the restrictions of the other countries and the rules of the other countries to be applied in order to see if there was anything that we could take in Denmark. The government then returned with a number of suggestions about what we could do in Denmark, and this was then one of them and I think it is quite excellent action. We regard it as another step towards more border controls in Denmark, all other things being equal. After all, in the financial agreement that was concluded a short time ago, we were told that there would be more patrols in the border area. And if we now hopefully implement and adopt this bill in the Folketing, what I said at the outset is, in our view, a step towards more border controls. I would like to say that I understand that DSB and private actors are sceptical about their tasks when it comes to the actions of this proposal. I understand they'd rather be free. One might also argue that it should be more of a task of authority, and who knows, if this proposal actually works out in reality, as we hope from the Danish People's Party. We will certainly see some chaotic conditions at Flensburg train station and other places where you want to stand on the train and let yourself be transported to Denmark. If it is the train we are talking about, which will make there will be increased pressure, so we need more officials to take care of the control and the people who travel into Denmark. I would also like to say, in relation to those who may be opposed to the legislative proposal, that I can understand the arguments against the urgency of the proposal, because it does everything else just that the committee procedure becomes a little less thorough than it would otherwise be. But we also just have to stick to it is the view from this point of view that in the situation we are in, it is simply crucial that it gets through the Folketing quickly, that it is quickly confirmed and that it is quickly going to work. Because if it is that the countries around us, if it is that Sweden introduces even more border controls, then we in Denmark need to be able to react and react in a way that will be effective. And we estimate from the Danish People's Party that we will be able to do so with this proposal if it comes out to work in the real world. I understand that there are employees who will be in a difficult situation. But we have to maintain that this is an extraordinary situation. We are in a very, very severe refugee crisis, a migrant crisis, and that is why we expect that, if the bill is adopted, which I hope, private companies and DSB will of course do what they have to do in order to comply with the law. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195821	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's the rapporteur on the Left, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208195835	The Schengen Agreement is a good agreement, and for many Danes I think it is the very definition of cooperation within the European Union: a free movement agreement that abolishes border controls at the internal Schengen borders, and precisely the agreement that allows us to travel freely across Europe, whether we go to Brussels, Bordeaux or Berlin. However, I do not believe that anyone back in 1985 when the first countries joined the Schengen Agreement had imagined the situation we are in today. Europe's external borders have largely collapsed. Thousands of people break through the external borders of the European Union every week, and up through Europe, a flood of refugees and migrants wandering freely from country to country and often out of the control of the authorities as they let the flow pass. As has been mentioned a number of times in this Chamber, this is a completely extraordinary situation that we are witnessing. The flow of refugees and migrants is pushing European countries to such an extent, including Denmark. We have seen how both the Swedish and German authorities have had to stretch arms and introduce temporary border controls at the borders which they have so proudly boasted have been wide open. And changes in our neighbouring countries could very quickly affect Denmark, which in the very near future may experience even greater pressure in terms of significantly higher entry rates and a significantly higher number of asylum seekers. As we have seen in our neighbouring countries, we cannot at all rule out the fact that, unfortunately, it may be necessary for Denmark to introduce temporary border controls for other Schengen countries. We must and must prepare for that. That is why this bill will enable the government to introduce so-called carrier liability, in other words a rule which, if the Minister so decides, can impose criminal liability on carriers, namely travel companies, DSB and others, if the company transports foreigners to Denmark without having the necessary travel documents and visas from another Schengen country. This is a system that we already know from Norway, where carriers are now responsible for checking the documents and visas of travellers when they enter Norway. Sweden is planning to introduce the same thing probably here on 21 December. And the rule is not entirely foreign to Denmark either. Transporter liability already applies to carriers bringing travellers to Denmark from a non-Schengen country. And the same rule can now be applied at the internal Schengen borders if circumstances require it. The legislative proposal here is just one in the series of a longer series of legislative proposals to ensure that the authorities are given the tools they need to control the situations that may arise as a result of the extraordinary flow of refugees. It is about accountability, security of the future and foresight in a situation in which the last few months have taught us that what we thought years ago was unthinkable can therefore become reality. So for the Left, it is simply a matter of providing the authorities with the right tools so that we can be well prepared for a future situation which, of course, we hope will not come. We hope that we will not need the legal basis, but we would simply not be responsible for this if we did not adopt the legal basis for introducing a carrier liability, which we hope will be adopted by means of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200206	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200216	Yeah, here we are again. Once again, the government has put forward a draft law on asylum, which must be dealt with urgently on the grounds that the refugee situation in Denmark is urgent and urgent, and once again a very large majority of the Social Democrats and the Right have chosen to ignore all the deadlines and thus create a situation in which the process in the Folketing becomes hectic and characterised by an inadequate basis for decision-making. I think it is a pity that it seems to be becoming a tradition that this way we can ignore the democratic rules that we have agreed together. The provision on carrier liability, that is, that airlines, shipping companies and other carriers can be penalised if they transport foreigners without a passport and a visa to Denmark, is, after all, old in Danish law. It was inserted into the Aliens Act as early as 1986, and when Denmark joined Schengen by two laws in 1997 and 2000, the rule of carrier liability became so limited that it only applied to the crossing of the external Schengen borders. It therefore no longer applies when crossing, for example, the border between Germany and Denmark. And the explanatory statement is, as the comments on this bill state, that the Schengen Convention contains an implicit ban on national provisions on carrier liability when crossing internal borders, and I quote the end. Now the government and the other parties behind the bill will nevertheless introduce carrier responsibility at Schengen's internal borders, and that is not in conflict with Denmark's EU and Schengen obligations, because carrier responsibility will only be imposed when border controls have been introduced as a result of a serious threat. That is how the comments on the draft law argue. This serious threat, which we are talking about, is surely to feel neither criminals nor terrorists, they are children, and they are women, and they are men fleeing from Assad's barrel bombs who are fleeing the massacres of ISIS in Syria. Transporter responsibility and ID control, as outlined in the draft law, are, for me, deeply problematic in terms of legal certainty. It's because this bill leaves it to more or less random employees in railway companies or ferry companies to decide whether a passport or visa is valid for entry into Denmark or not. I would say that I think it is actually a totally unfair situation to set, for example. DSB's employees in. A ticket seller or ticket controller is not trained in assessing such documents, and I guess that the signal from DSB and from Scanlines and the other companies would be that one would rather reject a little too many if one is in doubt than the opposite, because the company gets a fine if one gets to take someone into Denmark who doesn't have the papers in order. The draft law provides for checks on travellers' passports to be carried out by the transport companies' employees, and DSB then states in the press that checks must be carried out outside the trains. But the German federal police then say in the German press that DSB must under no circumstances check the papers or take care of the platform in Flensburg that the control must be carried out on the trains. I look forward very much to finding out where the control should take place physically and practically, because the purpose of this is clearly to avoid these people entering Danish soil and saying: Asylum! That is why we must assume that control must take place outside the Danish border. As I said, we do not think it is a fair situation to place travellers in legal terms, because their documents must be checked by people who are not trained to check such documents. It can be difficult enough even for people who are trained in it, and we certainly do not think that it is a fair situation to place employees with, for example. DSB and Scanlines in. So we can't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200619	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200636	With the law proposed by the government, it will be possible for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing to require a transporter to check travel documents and visas on entry from a Schengen country. It is also proposed that this should be done under criminal liability. As many consultation answers from carriers show, it is not without practical difficulties. On the other hand, every airliner from his own experience knows that the problems are not insurmountable. Indeed, the system proposed is very similar to the procedure when travelling between a Schengen country and a non-Schengen country. Although we can understand the objections at a practical level, they do not in any way weigh heavily enough to change our basic position. This is a good and necessary proposal which promotes one of the very general objectives of government policy, namely to ensure that it will be possible to maintain law and order in Denmark at all times. The justifications needed to trouble the transporters are therefore present in ample measure. Norway and Sweden have introduced temporary border controls. Norway has rules on carrier liability and similar rules are on the way in Sweden. In this situation, a great deal of pressure on the Danish borders and the Danish asylum system can arise very suddenly. Here, the most reckless risk one could take at all would be not to act at all. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill and looks forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200828	Sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200830	Thank you. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that it is liberal policy to impose burdens on business, in other words, as a state simply going in and imposing burdens on business without compensating them, which is what is happening in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200851	Every politician's heavy duty is to strike a balance, and it is a fundamental balance that we can ensure that the liberal, bourgeois constitutional order continues unabated. This is more important than the problems mentioned by the rapporteur, which must be properly foreseen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200912	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200914	I respect the answer and, in fact, I think it is a good answer. But now the hearings say that many of these companies will suffer considerable losses, as they write, if this is introduced. That's also what you see more and more directors say these days. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur's party could be tempted at some point to compensate these companies or perhaps help them by in-service training or by helping them with additional staff, instead of being themselves who are supposed to make this staff available. Is that something you've been thinking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200944	We do not intend to do so at first.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200948	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208200957	Thank you. The draft law, which we are going to deal with here, intends to authorise the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing to be able to impose criminal liability on carriers if they bring foreigners without the necessary travel documents and visas to this country from another Schengen country if a temporary border control has been introduced at that border. The aim is to ensure that carriers carry out checks on the identity and visa of travellers before they are brought to the country. As a starting point, the alternative does not mean that neither private nor state travel companies should be required to carry out regulatory controls. For the sake of all parties, regulatory control should be carried out by official authorities and personnel trained for the task, including conflict management, in the event of a conflict or disagreement. We must also look at the individual carrier for whom we believe this proposal can have major administrative and economic consequences. And, as the hearing answers also show, there is serious concern as to whether this proposal will be possible in practice without seriously challenging operators' ability to operate satisfactorily. We are in agreement with the alternative that there may be a desire on the part of the government that, in exceptional circumstances, we too can deal with the arrival of refugees in a way that is best for both refugees and authorities and the other people. We understand that. However, we seriously doubt whether this draft law has the most appropriate approach, and we therefore find it problematic to deal with the proposal in this way in such a way as to ensure that potential consequences and great uncertainty as to how they will work in practice are not sufficiently clarified. So we look forward to the committee reading. Just to mention some of the answers to the hearings that I referred to, it is, for example. from South traffic, asking how drivers are expected to be able to check foreign passports, visas and other travel documents, because how are they supposed to handle it? They do not have adequate training. And what about the Danish police? How can they help? Can German police assist? These are some of the concerns they raise. SAS is also concerned about the fact that they do not have the expertise and resources needed if they are put into this situation. We have H-H Ferries, who are concerned that this may be contrary to Swedish legislation, and what about financial compensation? And what competence is required of those who have to do so? What about education? Do they have to train people themselves, and how is it offered? There are also a number of questions in relation to DSB. I very much hope that we will be able to clarify the specific issues in the further reading of the committee. So as the proposal is right at the moment, we are concerned, but we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201258	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201302	Thank you. I am not surprised that Enhedslisten is opposed to the bill, but I think it is very positive that the alternative opens up the possibility of being able to support the law. I really think it would be important and good if the alternative could back it up. For that, I would ask the alternative to consider one thing. If you look at all the relevant concerns in the hearings for a moment, this is a situation where there is a serious threat to public order or internal security. That's what we're talking about. It is only in this situation that border controls can be introduced under the Schengen acquis. Should it not be possible in this situation to punish a company that fills a bus with people they don't know who is and drives across the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201354	Well, what worries me a lot in this respect is that we are talking about people who have only left the country from which they come. Then they may have managed to get by boat across dangerous waters with the risk of capturing, and then they have landed, for example. Greece and end up at the Danish border. I am therefore concerned about whether carriers are adequately trained to deal with it if there are osptår situations where people are frustrated or violent or something like that. I think it is very important that we ensure that those carriers are adequately trained for this and that we take care of how they should do it and under what conditions. That is what I think is missing from the draft law, and that is also what I was trying to ask in relation to the concerns of the hearing answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201443	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201445	I agree with all of this and, of course, there is a great responsibility on the part of the government to ensure that this is done in the implementation of the law and in the way the authorities actually operate and in the guidance given to the companies that have to exercise this control. But the responsibility that I believe lies with us as Parliament is then to prepare our country for a situation where there may be a serious threat to public order or internal security. And if, in such a situation, we are not able to make it a criminal offence to carry people across the border that you do not know who is, where are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201528	I think the rapporteur just struck down in the right place in that we are exactly legal in here. And now you can see that this bill is being rushed through, and it is important that, in relation to the legislative proposals, we know what consequences they have. We have to have time to work with them thoroughly, and that is also why I hope we will have proper committee reading. I think that is really, really important. What worries me is that it sounds to the rapporteur as if an operator were to do this consciously. Now I am thinking of all the companies that have replied to the hearings, and none of them say that they will not. They express a number of concerns that we need to clarify before we can agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201613	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208201624	Thank you, President. In the Radical Left, we also have a great understanding that, in a very special situation, temporary border controls may be necessary and that, if that happens, there must also be an opportunity to have a particularly detailed overview of who comes to Denmark and where they come from. After all, we have come here because the external borders of the European Union are not under control; because for too long it has been left to the countries with the external borders to bear full responsibility for the registration and reception of refugees from those places in the world where barrel bombs and dictators and terrorists and war and death and persecution ravage. We believe that all efforts should be made to strengthen aid in the now famous neighbourhoods, but the government is doing the opposite. We believe that every effort should be made to find common European solutions to deal with the external borders of the European Union; so that the registration of refugees can be carried out in an orderly manner; so that those who are not entitled to asylum can be sent back and so that we can have a joint distribution of the refugees who are entitled to asylum. But that's not gonna happen either, and the government isn't at the front of the bus. In relation to this draft law on transporter liability, I also think that I still have far more questions than answers to the draft law, and that, as several rapporteurs have said, is only made worse by reading the consultation answers. DSB is e.g. extremely critical of the draft law and says that it may mean simply stopping cross-border train operations. Hasn't the Minister been in any dialogue with DSB before the bill? There are also a number of things that I simply cannot get to hang together. Denmark has a duty to take back foreigners who have gone to Sweden from Denmark without valid passports and papers, and following the bill DSB will be obliged to refuse to take the foreigner in question back to Denmark from Sweden on Swedish grounds. So DSB will commit offences either in Sweden or in Denmark, regardless if I may say what they are doing. Looks like it's hard to get together. But maybe the Minister has an answer to that. Should DSB and other operators put minors off the train if they lack identification? Where are they supposed to be sent? There may be an answer, but I can't find it. Who's gonna pay? What if the private operator cannot handle the task and has to close? I have a lot more questions. I hope that we will be able to get an answer to this in the next 24 hours, but I fear for the contrary, and that is why I still think that the consequences of the legislative proposal are quite unclear. That is why we have simply not taken up our position in the Radical Left. It is difficult to decide on something where the consequences are completely unclear and which is under-lit and hastily described. In the Radical Left, however, we have proposed that, at the same time as this hasty process, in which we must once again be involved, the government should set in motion an ordinary legislative process, with proper time for consultation, for referral to committee and for the possibility of tabling amendments. This can be done by introducing a revision clause into the law, which will then come into force shortly, while we are going through the ordinary legislative process. We believe that this is a very flexible and pragmatic approach on our part, and it will also be crucial to our position on the legislative proposal. I am pleased to note that the Group Chairman of the Left has supported the idea. I hope that the Secretary of the Left will do the same. It could even be that I was fortunate enough for the Socialists to support it, because then we could have a proper legislative process, while we had a readiness to prepare if and if we were to get into the very special situation which I also miss a specific definition of when is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208202036	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208202046	We have been concerned from the outset about this proposal and it has been discussed very much in our group. In fact, I thought that now is finally the time when the SF should agree with the Minister. But it was because I thought, when I first read the proposal, that it was about more identity checks on authority staff at borders. That did not turn out to be the case. Basically, we believe that there may be a need for more border controls. It may come as a surprise to somebody, and seen over the past few years, it may also be a slip. But many things have happened around us. The many streams of people who are coming to Denmark right now... fleeing from war... means that in Denmark we have very little control over who is coming to the country, and that actually worries me, especially now that it seems that our neighbouring countries are shutting off completely. We think everything that is happening now is symptom treatment, but we must also be aware of what is happening around you. But if the SF is to accept temporary border controls, then it will be with officials, with police or with trained staff who can handle refugees; who know what a false passport looks like; who has a clear instruction on what to do if an unpleasant situation arises; who has a boss, a leader or a minister to whom they refer if something goes wrong; who knows who to call if it's all on fire. And that is precisely what it can do if law and order are put out of hand. I get very worried when I read the hearing responses to this proposal. Several of the carriers, both DSB, the ferries and the bus companies, say that they are concerned about this because they simply do not have the competences. It is therefore the employees that the workers simply do not know how to do the work that they are now going to do. They don't know what the fake IDs look like; they don't know different kinds of identification papers. They also fear for the situations that may arise, and I understand that. And it is not because I assume that refugees come and are violent, but if refugees have left thousands of kilometres behind, perhaps at worst lost family, and the last thing that will stop them from reaching their final destination is a bus driver, then I understand that one is genuinely concerned that such a situation can escalate, and then the employees, the workers, have no competence or ability to defend themselves. So they're just gonna run away from the place? This is not really the case in the proposal. Then there's this basic question about kids. What about kids who get caught on the train and caught not having papers on them? Are they just gonna drop them off the train? If they're alone and the bus driver asks them who they are, shouldn't they just be allowed to get on the bus? Who's gonna take care of them? There will be no answer to that either. Then there is one more fundamental thing: what about the income that traders lose on it? Does it matter? And then there is the legal thing that I hadn't even thought about until I read it: Does Denmark even have the right to carry out ID checks in countries other than our own? This is also being asked in the consultation material. And what if both Sweden and Denmark introduce this? When Sweden sends them back to Denmark, the carriers must not accept them, but they must not send them back either. DSB points out that it will mean that they will commit violation of law, no matter what they do. Whatever country they send them to, they will break the law. We, as Parliament, cannot live with this, then, that we require business to break the law, no matter what they do. There are a great many outstanding questions. I am not part of a party that is going to accept a law in advance without having answers to those questions, without having answers to the criticisms that we have. We're not going to back this up. Had it been authority staff, it would have been a temporary border control with people who were trained, so yes, we were actually ready. And then just in the end: this case of DSB that gets stuck between Sweden and Denmark in this law game, this tighter game, is just screaming for common solutions. I really don't understand why we spend all our time and creativity... and there's by God a lot of it in this hall... to tighten the most instead of making contact with our Swedish neighbors, contact the politicians who are around us, and ask what we can do together. Can we do some joint control? Can we distribute across countries? How do we solve this joint? This is just another sign that if we run it nationally, alone, between the countries, then it is both the citizens, the refugees and the traders who get into trouble. It's just not gonna bring anything good with it. So we're not backing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208202511	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208202521	As several rapporteurs have mentioned, there are currently a number of refugees and illegal immigrants coming to the EU countries and also to Denmark and our neighbouring countries. It pushes all countries to take precautions. For example: Norway, Sweden and Germany have introduced temporary border controls at borders with other Schengen countries. Sweden has introduced a control at the Danish border. We in Denmark must also prepare ourselves for this, so that, if an unusual situation arises, we can also do something unusual to prevent chaotic conditions from arising which could lead to a serious threat to public order. If there is, there are some groups, elements, gangs that will exploit it. That is why it is important, we think, to control the borders. With Bill L 74, the government wants to introduce so-called carrier liability, which means that transport operators who transport passengers across Danish borders can be fined if they do not check the identity of passengers. Responsibility will only apply if temporary border controls have been introduced. This is something that already applies to countries that are not part of Schengen cooperation. For example, if you come from Egypt and have to fly to Denmark. There, the Egyptian aviation workers check the passports and identity of the passengers who are going to Denmark and also their visas, otherwise they will not be allowed to fly. If they do, they might be fined. That is what will be expanded to include rail and ferry companies. We think this is a sensible proposal. We think it is important to act rather than react. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208202733	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208202747	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the contributions we have already heard. As I have said many times in recent times, there can be no doubt that we are in an extraordinary situation. Europe and Denmark are under pressure, as never before, of refugees and migrants flocking here, and the pressure is clearly seen. A number of countries, including Germany, Norway and Sweden, have introduced temporary border controls at their borders in response to the very large number of refugees and migrants. Norway and Sweden have introduced temporary border controls at their borders with Denmark. The government, of course, is keeping a very close eye on developments in our neighbouring countries, and it cannot be ruled out that temporary border controls will also be introduced at the Danish borders. In Norway, rules on carrier liability apply to temporary border controls at internal borders. Under the Norwegian rules, carriers of travellers to Norway are thus required to check that travellers have a valid travel document and a visa for entry into Norway. In addition, this week the Swedish Government will present a draft law on rules on carrier liability for identity checks on travellers to Sweden. If, for example, the situation is different. in Germany and Sweden change, this could very quickly lead to a sharp increase in pressure on Denmark. Thus, an emergency situation may arise within a very short period of time which the authorities must be prepared to deal with. It should therefore be ensured, as is the case in Norway and in the light of the rules that Sweden intends to introduce, that carriers can be required to check travel documents and visas for foreigners brought here if they introduce temporary border controls. The draft law will enable the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing to decide that the rules on transporter liability applicable to the external Schengen borders should also apply to the internal Schengen borders where temporary border controls have been introduced. The decision can only be taken if the carrier's responsibility is necessary to ensure effective border control and the carrier's responsibility can only be maintained for as long as is necessary. In other words, carrier responsibility at internal borders should not be introduced automatically simply because temporary border controls are introduced in Denmark, but only if carrier responsibility is necessary to ensure effective border control. As I said, this bill is about being prepared, in case the pressure on Denmark increases dramatically, and on this basis the government has asked the Danish Parliament for urgent consideration of the bill. I am pleased to note that there is a majority in favour of such an urgent procedure. Finally, I would like to thank you for the support the proposal has enjoyed here today, and I look forward to the further examination of the draft law here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, as I shall do, will be available to answer any questions that may arise in connection with the debate both now and later, and there will be a technical review later this evening in the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203124	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203130	Thank you. After all, I am trying to find out where it is that checks should be carried out if temporary border controls are introduced and this carrier responsibility comes into force. This is the thing about DSB saying that the control can't be carried out inside the trains. And the German Federal Police say that the control carried out by Danish DSB employees cannot be carried out on the platform on e.g. Flensburg station. So where is physical control supposed to take place? I know that a written answer has been given here not long ago, but I do not think it is an answer which actually answers my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203214	The checks must be carried out before the Danish border, just as the checks with Sweden must be carried out before the Swedish border.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203240	Yes, and it also makes sense that it should take place before the Danish border, all the time that the purpose, as far as I can understand, is that a human being must not come and set foot on Danish soil and say: asylum. If this is to take place before the Danish border and we, for example, have to do so before the Danish border. If we are dealing with train travelers from Flensburg to Padborg, and the German federal police say that the control must not be carried out on the platform in Flensburg, can it be done anywhere but inside the train? But DSB says it can't be done inside the train. What do you do then?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203317	However, just as we have to deal with how we are going to make it up to the Swedish border, if the Swedes introduce a similar requirement, if it is introduced here, then we will have to consider how it should be done in a practical and precise manner at which location before the Danish border, that is to say on the German side.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203341	The next brief remark is from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203345	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I took note of the Minister's statement, as I understood it, that although temporary border controls are introduced, it does not necessarily mean that the transporter's requirement is introduced. Can the Minister try to clarify when it is then that the carrier responsibility will be taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203407	It is quite correct that the two things are not necessarily connected. But it is the case that transporter responsibility can only come into effect if there is temporary border controls, so that is the way it is. It would be if it would otherwise be difficult to carry out border controls or temporary border controls. Then you will be able to introduce carrier responsibility. And I would guess that in practice, in the vast majority of cases where temporary border controls will be introduced, a carrier responsibility will also actually be introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203446	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203448	All right, that means that what the Minister is saying is that the Minister is guessing that in the vast majority of cases both will be done. Then I would actually like to ask what the rapporteur of the Radicals was asking, i.e. whether the Minister could agree to make such a sunset clause, or what we call it, so that we write in, that we have to have proper legal treatment of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203518	In other words, it is never appropriate to have urgent legislation. I'll give you that. However, on the other hand, I think that in this case we have the opportunity to hear the parties we can also see that there have been a lot of consultation answers and we do not have as much time as we normally have in the Danish Parliament to debate the bill. But I can say so much that I, and of course also the Ministry, will do everything we possibly can to allow the information and answers to be sent to the Folketing as may be asked. This is among other things. and therefore that there is a technical review of, inter alia: The bill here later tonight. So straight away, no. I do not see any reason to change the content of the draft law, that is to say to understand that a second reading is to be carried out on the other side of New Year. I see it as being adopted if it is adopted now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203624	The next brief remark is from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203628	That is precisely the question I wanted to ask, and I would ask: what prevents the Minister from doing so? Why does the Minister not want to introduce a revision clause, which the Minister has introduced into previous legislation, so that we recognise that an urgent process is therefore needed here, but that we allow this legislature to actually have the opportunity to consult the consultation parties? There are, of course, several answers to the question of whether we simply do not want to make a statement because we have not had time to deal with the legislative proposal properly. It would then be possible to do so without the Minister being prevented from applying this legislation if the Minister needed it. What is it that makes the Minister not willing to comply with that request?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203717	You can always think about it, but at first sight I just don't think there's any need for it. If we look at the legislative proposal here, we can see that it is quite close to, for example. the Norwegian model. So you can say that it is actually known substance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203735	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203738	We are not in Norway, we are here, we have not had the opportunity to study matters more thoroughly than we could do on the day the Minister has given us. The same applies to the consultation parties. We are not asking the Minister for anything. The Minister's own group chairman has warmly supported this proposal. What is it that makes the Minister unable even to comply with the request for such a process?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203811	As I said, you can always think about it. But immediately I just don't see any reason for it, because I actually think that the draft law here is relatively easy to go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203822	The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203826	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the presentation. I would like to ask the Minister the question of legal certainty which I tried to put to the Socialist rapporteur and what the Minister thinks about it. In other words, the problem that can arise if you put employees in DSB or in other carriers to check papers that they are not trained to check is that the employee can incur some responsibility if he or she allows a foreigner into false assumptions or rejects a foreigner on false assumptions. On the other hand, foreigners probably also have a certain insecurity and perhaps a legal problem in that they are controlled by people who are not trained for it. What is the Minister's view of this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208203919	So, I think it is important to think about how this is going on in the real world, and this is already happening on a large scale with the airlines. And I should like to say that it is of course employees at exactly the same level of education as it would be if, for example, it were. Was DSB's employees. So I do not see that it should be something very special, because, for example, it is. is a DSB employee who has to check whether a traveller has a valid passport or visa and that it should be different from if it was an airline's employees. And I have never heard Enhedslisten contest that airline employees can carry out that control.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204002	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204004	In other words, the Minister does not think there are any problems in doing so. Is it the case that an amount, that is to say some money, has been set aside for staff training? Because that is something that the people in question are not used to doing today. It's a new task right here in this context. So perhaps a more philosophical question, but nevertheless: is it not some kind of shift of responsibility that, as authority, if I may say so, the responsibility for controlling the rightful access of foreigners to Denmark is being wiped off on some employees instead of applying the authority which should actually do so, namely the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204045	I think that, in a situation where temporary border controls are being introduced, we will then need the police more than in the case of transport, for example. train passengers. Having said that, I would like to say that there is no provision for training, because I do not believe that education is necessary. I am not familiar with the fact that the airline staff are on courses to look at passports and visas. Having said that, however, I actually believe that the way we do it here, where it is about passports and visas, is much more transparent than if it were image identification. For image ID can be a lot of things and can be very, very difficult to understand and see the validity and authenticity of if it is image ID from other countries, whereas I actually think that passports and visas are something easier to go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204143	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204147	I was actually going to ask you about this for the technical review in a moment, but it says in those hearings that DSB can get into a situation where you want to break the law no matter what, if we introduce it here, because you cannot send them back to Sweden, because they have also introduced it, and you cannot send them to Denmark either. So you break the law in both countries. I just want to know if the Minister recognises that problem and if the Minister does not think it is a problem if we impose a law on DSB which means that they will commit offences against either us or our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204219	The point is, for example. I have to check before the German border, so I do not think that the problem is so great.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204231	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204233	Okay, so I guess part of the answer is that it's not at the border with Sweden that the minister will introduce this carrier responsibility, but we can also take that later. Then I have another question. It is about the fact that DSB has just said in Politiken that they are considering stopping the train operation if you introduce it here without helping them, that is to say giving them some kind of assistance, and I can understand that. It could be education, but it might also be something else. Has the Minister considered whether to help these companies, in other words to give them some kind of assistance if this is necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204305	I simply do not think that is necessary. I would say that if this is introduced, it is because we are in a very, very special situation here in Denmark; it is because we are at risk of a very, very large accumulation of refugees and migrants, for example. at Copenhagen Central Station. And if you are in that situation, you have to use very special means and tools, and that is exactly what we are debating here. And there I think it is quite simply more important than anything else that the situation is under control and that we are not going to experience a very, very large accumulation of thousands of refugees and migrants, for example. at Copenhagen Central Station.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204349	Thank you, Minister. As there are no more brief comments, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204405	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204425	Thank you. The bill gives local authorities better opportunities to secure temporary housing for more refugees. The main elements of the bill are (1) that single refugees of the same sex should be accommodated temporarily in the same room, and (2) that refugees should be able to be assigned temporary accommodation on a noise-laden area. According to the proposal's comments, this has been a wish of the local authorities. For the Socialists, it is essential that municipalities are given the best opportunities to deal with the increasing number of refugees, including making a concrete assessment of who should first be in line for which housing, taking into account age, disease and possible traumas from experiences in the home country. A hearing reply raises doubts as to whether the draft law complies with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. We expect the government to make an assessment of this article during the committee procedure. It is also important for the Socialists that the instructions for temporary housing can continue to be appealed to the Ankestyrelsen under the rules on legal certainty and administration in the social field. The Socialists support the proposal and look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204534	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204547	This is because of the temporary nature of the situation, because of course I can understand the need for flexibility in a situation where there are considerably more refugees coming to Denmark than there are usually. But I am a little worried that I have not been able to find any limit on how long this temporary nature will last. Has the rapporteur found any limit on how long this temporary situation can last?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204615	I noted well in the hearings that several raised exactly the same question. And no, I have not found anything in the draft law or in the comments which say, for example. Three months which, as far as I remember, has been the case in the past, but which was not a flexible way of adapting the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204636	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204637	Will the Socialists be involved in this if we could find some kind of limit to this temporary nature in the committee procedure? Because, as I said, I understand the need for more refugees in a situation where there are more refugees, to create more flexibility, including saying that it may be that more people will have to live in a room together if only it does not develop into a very long life in such a situation, because apart from the fact that I think it is unreasonable, I also think it is bad for integration. But will the Socialists support the fact that in the committee work we are trying to find some ceiling on this temporary nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204715	Thank you for the question. Now I am not going to stand here and reject some hundred percent, but as a starting point I am somewhat sceptical, and this is because of what I said in my introductory speech, namely that I think it is important that the municipalities have the best opportunities to deal with the increasing number of refugees, including being able to make a concrete assessment of who should first be in line for which housing, taking into account age, sickness and possible traumas from experiences in the country of origin. I can be a little nervous if there is a limit, that you risk ending up in a situation where someone who urgently needs to get out of temporary housing and get into something more permanent will have to wait longer because you have to live up to the legal requirements of some others, for example. after 3 months must be able to leave the temporary accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204759	The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204804	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. This is a little in line with the exchange of views between the rapporteur and Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Shouldn't there be a limit? Then you can discuss where it should be, based on an assessment of what capacity is and at what rate we can get real housing established, if I may use that expression. Because if there is no limit, it will quickly become a sleeping pillow, and then we risk that refugees will stay for very long periods in these special homes that are now being offered, and that is surely not good for integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204842	Thank you for the question, which was whether there should be a limit. I will continue to be a little sceptical about this for two reasons. Firstly, do we really have a problem today with the municipalities using it as a sleeping pillow? Not that I know of. We must be careful to solve problems that do not exist. Secondly, if there is a border, wherever it comes, we risk ending up in a situation where, in order to comply with the law, municipalities will have to refer a permanent residence to some refugees who may be well off, thereby pushing refugees who urgently need a permanent residence and who may have just arrived, have traumas or have children or other things, in the back of the home queue. There I am actually confident that the municipalities are able to deal with it and will therefore give them the authority to carry out their own assessment of who is most in need of permanent housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204942	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208204944	Thank you. After all, we are not only discussing a bill out in thin air, there is also a reality in the municipalities, not least an economic reality that is so highly determined in here from Christiansborg, where there is a rather massive, concrete majority in favour of the municipalities not being given much more money compared to today. On the contrary, we have just seen a financial bill in which they have to save 1%. etc. The municipalities are under crazy pressure, and in this situation it may be tempting for the municipalities to say that the effort we really ought to make to provide permanent housing for refugees is pushing a little, because there is no pressure, there is no requirement in a legislative proposal on when to provide permanent housing for refugees. And if you are in favour of good integration, you should be in favour of a limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205036	Thank you for the question on which I have two comments. Firstly, if we end up in such a situation, i.e. if the municipalities allow people to rot in temporary dwellings right next to a noise-laden motorway, then I think we have a discussion for the benefit of both of us. But that's not where we are. Secondly, it is no secret that the Socialists want and hope that we will soon convince the Minister that we will have refugee villages in Denmark paid and run by the Danish state.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205109	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205122	Thank you. I can immediately tell you that the Danish People's Party can support this bill. In our view, this is a small legislative proposal, which means that it is authorised to lay down rules whereby the single refugee may, in a specific assessment, be instructed to move in and be instructed to share a living room with one or more other single refugees as a temporary accommodation solution. I believe that this will ease the pressure on the municipalities to a limited extent, but there is also an element that simply pushes the problem forward here, because at some point the rooms are kind of filled up and then you are still standing away with the challenge if it is that you have not done anything about the influx. The draft law also makes it possible for the municipalities to derogate from the indicative noise limit values resulting from the Environmental Protection Agency's guidelines, which means that temporary residences for refugees can be established in so-called noise-laden areas. As I have said, we in the Danish People's Party believe that this proposal will be able to relieve the municipalities, which are very pressured. However, it will not fundamentally solve the problems; it will postpone the problems because the problems will still be there. That is why, among other things, we are here today. have argued that state units, refugee villages, shanty towns should be set up... you can call them so many things... that would be what would really relieve the municipalities if it were to be implemented. So we are still working on that from the Danish People's Party. Unfortunately, we could not agree on this in the negotiations which failed here yesterday. Therefore, it must also be said that when this bill is adopted, what appears to be happening, the municipalities will continue to experience increasing pressure. It would be worse without this proposal, it is clear, but we are not in the end at all. Much more significant action is needed, and there is also a great need for new thinking in this area. Therefore, the Danish People's Party continues to work for state units where the refugees are to live and if it was up to us until they could return to their home countries. However, with these comments, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205334	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205356	The municipalities are challenged and they are also difficult to challenge because they have the huge task of trying to keep up with the huge influx of asylum seekers who are currently pushing countries across the EU. That is why, at the request of the municipalities, the government has put forward this bill which we are now considering. The bill aims to provide the municipalities with better and extended opportunities to find temporary accommodation for refugees. Here it is, among other things. the possibility for municipalities to accommodate two or more single refugees in the same room, and we also provide municipalities with extended opportunities to temporarily derogate from some of the noise requirements for temporary stays today. The Left supports this, not because we cannot undo people who come here on the run from war, death and destruction, a private room with peace and quiet, but because we are in an extraordinary situation where we simply receive more asylum seekers than our municipalities are geared to. Unfortunately, we need to think alternatively so that we can help as many people as possible in the most appropriate way. We must do so while, of course, the authorities still have to take into account the personal circumstances of the individual refugee, including age, gender or particular psychological vulnerability due, for example, to traumatization. These things will, of course, continue to be taken into account, as will the temporary residence which supports the refugee's integration process as far as possible in future. The bill here is a responsible, sensible and necessary handshake for our municipalities, which are struggling hard to solve the very great challenge they have been faced with. It is only fair that we at Christiansborg support them as much as possible and that we help them within reasonable limits so that they are prepared for the future. That is why the Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205557	Thank you. The first brief remark is from Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205601	As I said, I understand the need to do something extraordinary when there are many refugees, and that is what happens now, in other words in relation to what is customary. But it worries me that there seems to be no upper limit to how long this temporary nature can last. Will the Left help to see if a ceiling could be set on temporaryity, if that is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205635	Now we should never reject anything categorically, but it is difficult to predict how long this situation will last, which is why it is difficult to predict how long we have the need that we have at least now. Therefore, it would also be difficult not to say impossible for me here to say that temporarily is 2 years or 3 years or 5 years or 6 months, or whatever. I find it difficult to see that this is possible, but surely we should not reject anything categorically.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205706	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205708	[Sound emission]... the bill is how many people can stay in a room and how big the room should be. I think that is also a bit worrying, because okay, it may be that for a certain period it may be necessary for more people to live in a room together, but it might be reasonable to set some kind of requirement or ceiling for how many people you can stuff into a room and how large that room should be. Will the Left be open to such some form of regulation in this area of committee proceedings?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205746	Well, I don't know if Enhedslisten is fishing for such a cubic meter limit. I have to say that I have so much faith in the municipalities that I am sure they can solve this problem that they can deal with this problem without us having to go into such a Guinness record book attempt with how many refugees you can stuff into as few square meters as possible. My faith in the municipalities is so great that I am sure they can do this in a dignified and proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205813	The next brief remark is from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205819	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for supporting the local authorities in this case in helping to deal with the refugee situation. Secondly, I would like to say that the draft law states in paragraph 8 that there is always something about the relationship with EU law and Denmark's other international obligations. Below it says: The bill does not contain EU legal aspects. No assessment of Denmark's other international obligations has been made. One of the consultations raises doubts as to whether this draft law is contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I shall therefore hear whether the rapporteur of the Left will support the fact that we must have such an assessment by the Ministry before we deal with the legislative proposal in the second instance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205911	I am now relatively sure that such an assessment has been made, but I think we should take that into account in committee. That is some of what I am sure we can get a relatively quick answer to. I think I can also say that the answer will be that there are also no problems with Denmark's other international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205929	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205931	I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205934	The next brief remark is from Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208205947	Thank you. I noticed Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's reply to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, who asked about the temporary nature of the matter, which I hope we can also address in committee. Like the rapporteur, I certainly do not lack confidence in the desire and willingness of the municipalities to carry out proper treatment and integration. On the other hand, I sometimes lack confidence in the government and its supporters in S and O, because it is the government and its supporters that set the framework for how the municipalities can ensure proper reception and integration. And it has become considerably more difficult for the municipalities in recent times. So will the rapporteur not elaborate on whether the government's goodwill will allow an unlimited number of refugees to be accommodated in the same room for an unlimited number of years? I am actually also in favour of it, but I would like to know if the rapporteur does not think there will be any limits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210056	What the Radical Left is asking is whether this bill provides for the possibility of an unlimited number of refugees in a room for an unlimited number of years, i.e. one million refugees in a room for the next 10,000 years. I would like to repeat that I am confident that the municipalities can deal with this problem, and I must also say that I do not know when there will be peace in Syria. I do not know when, where appropriate, the necessary number of dwellings has been established, which means that these temporary conditions are no longer necessary. I don't know. I think it would be interesting to hear a suggestion as to what the Radical Left thinks is an appropriate time frame.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210144	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210147	Yes, but it is precisely because of the circumstances described by the rapporteur that we do not know when the war in Syria ends that we must then deal with the fact that we have some challenges in Denmark that are now going to last. I really think it is too serious a question, if I may say so, to make fun of one million and 10,000 years. I think the rapporteur knows that this is not what I am talking about, but that there can be conditions in which many refugees have to stay in one room for a long time. And would the rapporteur not just give an indication of what the rapporteur thinks is reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210231	Well, it's not like I'm making fun of things. After all, the Radical Left is making fun of things by talking about an unlimited number of refugees in a room for an unlimited number of years. It's silly to put it up like that. As I said, I have faith that the municipalities do not put a lot of people into a room so they can barely breathe and have room for themselves. Now trust our municipalities! I am sure they can find some decent solutions. It's not a dream situation for anyone that we can't give each one a room, but we can't. I do not know how long it will be needed, nor do I know how many refugees will be coming in the future, and that is why I do not know how long it will be necessary, if I may say so, to compromise slightly with the standards that we would normally set.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210348	In these weeks and months, more asylum seekers come to Denmark than usual. And a great many of them come from Syria, where conditions are so dangerous that the vast majority of asylum seekers are granted asylum. Although Danish entry figures pale when compared to Swedish or German, there is no doubt that there are at present more persecuted and threatened people seeking refuge in Denmark than usual. And there is no doubt that more refugees also make greater demands on the municipalities responsible for the accommodation and integration of refugees. Therefore, there may also be good reason to consider whether it is necessary to give the municipalities greater flexibility so that they are better able to do this task. I understand that very well. What I find difficult to understand about this bill is that it should be dealt with urgently by Friday and by Christmas. The refugee situation in Denmark and Europe has been under construction for a long time. The war in Syria started in March 2011, and I find it difficult to understand that the problems have come so much to the surprise of the government that it has not either tabled this bill two months ago, or vice versa that it cannot wait a few weeks until we come into the new year to get it adopted. I find it difficult not to get the idea that the urgent procedure itself aims to whip up some sort of mood and create a picture of such an acute problem in Denmark because there are men, women and children who are seeking to escape from barrel bombs and beheadings in Syria. In concrete terms, the draft law deals with the conditions for refugees, who must have a temporary accommodation before they have a permanent residence. I would very much like that temporary nature to be defined and defined. Well, how long can a fugitive be accommodated temporarily? Is it a few weeks or is it for years? The proposal is that several single refugees should be temporarily accommodated in the same room, and it is proposed that a minister's decree should lay down the detailed rules. I think it is important that there is some kind of limit to how many you can stow together in a room and a minimum limit to how many square meters you should have per. person. I really miss that in this bill. I think it would be wonderful if the Minister were open to discussing whether one could limit the temporary nature of the situation and create some kind of lower limit on how little room there must be for how many refugees, if that is to say, rather than just issuing such a blank cheque as I have a feeling this bill is. On many occasions, the government has stated that it sees it as its declared objective to make refugee status less attractive in Denmark, and the draft law calls for the rules on the location of refugee residences in noise-laden areas to be relaxed. And if you know the government's agenda that way, it is hard not to get the idea that the government wants as many refugee homes as possible to be placed in places that are not very nice, where there is a lot of noise, so it is extremely unattractive to live there. When you print a blank cheque, it is wise to make it to someone you trust, and I have to say that the few months that have passed since the government came into office have unfortunately not given me much confidence that the government's refugee policy has been carried out by giving the people we provide protection here in Denmark as good a life as possible. That is why, because of the lack of confidence that it is really a desire to create decent lives for these people, we are very sceptical about this bill. It is not that we as such reject the idea or the need to create greater flexibility in a situation like that which is now. We have asked a large number of questions, and our position will, of course, depend on the answer to them, and I wish, as I said, that agreement could be reached on some kind of demarcation of temporary nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210827	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210832	Well, I guess it was in and out positive notes from the Enhedslisten. A maximum number or a minimum number of square meters must be fixed. the person and established a limit on the temporary nature of the person. We have open debates here in Parliament. That's why we're talking to each other. So what is it that Enhedslisten wants? What are the requirements with which negotiations are conducted? How many square meters per square metre? You think you should be written into the law, and how long do you think there should be for the temporary, so that you can support the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208210911	I don't know what number of square meters is reasonable. I do not know if you could get inspiration from the legislation on working conditions, or what I know, but I think it is important if you are to make such legislation as this, that you are trying to give people some minimum of rights. It is of course because I am concerned that very many people are being put in very little space, and that is also because I am concerned that consideration may not just be the difficult situation facing the municipalities, and I think that this situation should be taken seriously, but that there may also be a wish that it should not be so nice to be a refugee who is being protected in Denmark, because one would like to send out a signal into the world that it would be fine if the refugees chose elsewhere to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211002	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211004	I think it's so typical Enhedslisten. Well, criticism can be found, but a constructive approach to things cannot be found. I do not know how many people stand as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, but at least not many people would be in very little place. I think we can all agree on that. But let me ask: how many are very many, and how little space is quite little space?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211030	Now I think the rapporteur is rather silly. Excuse me, politics is very much divided. The rapporteur and I in the Left strongly disagree on immigration policy and on refugee policy. I am trying to meet the Left a little by saying: okay, I recognise that the municipalities are in a difficult situation. I believe, then, that the Left and the Right have placed these municipalities in an even more difficult situation by cutting the benefits so drastically, but so could not some kind of ceiling be set on temporary work? Could it not be said that there are limits to how many people you could stuff into these rooms? But I understand that the rapporteur is not interested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211118	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211134	Thank you. Just last Saturday, one of the country's quality newspapers brought a big report from Center Sandholm. It was a sober and thorough description of the pressure to which the Danish asylum system is subjected. However, although the tone and approach were sober, the article contained words such as "extraordinary," "usual" and "fate" used by the experts interviewed. It is therefore a very extraordinary time that we are going through when it comes to the influx of refugees and migrants, and it also requires, of course, that extraordinary funds be used to accommodate them. Let me give you an example. The influx in 2016 is expected to be 25,000 people. The influx of Bosnians was in the year when the influx was highest in 1993 at about 15,000. So, in view of the fact that all records will be beaten and we have already had a great influx, the legislative changes proposed are almost measured. Lone refugees will be able to be accommodated temporarily with other single-sex refugees, and you can exempt from the applicable rules on noise when it comes to temporary accommodation. These are sensible and reasonable proposals that enable the municipalities to fulfil the tasks assigned to them. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill and we look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211323	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211335	Thank you. This bill gives the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing the power to lay down detailed rules on the assignment of temporary residence to refugees, including the intention that single refugees may be assigned to share temporary accommodation with one or more other single refugees, and allows municipalities to derogate from the indicative noise limit values, which means that temporary residences can be established for refugees on noise-laden areas. In the alternative, we understand that there may be a desire on the part of the government and, in particular, in the municipalities, to be able to use several existing buildings to house refugees temporarily. Having said that, we are not prepared to completely deviate from standards and requirements, as this bill opens up in practice. We lack the specifications that indicate which minimum standards will replace if we allow derogations from the current practice, and it is worth bearing in mind in this respect that the current legislation already provides a fairly broad framework for interpretation, both in terms of alternatives to residential spaces and, above all, for how long a dwelling can be temporary. In practice, temporary work may be more or less indefinitely, as neither the legislation nor the instructions of the Ankestyrelsen have a real time limit. At the same time, we also know that new legislation will very likely be adopted in the near future, which will deprive refugees of priority for permanent housing in the municipalities, which will in practice mean that temporary housing can become more permanent. That is why we believe it is important to ensure proper conditions for such temporary accommodation, as well as very clear guidelines on what the individual is entitled to do, and we will ask about this in committee, and we very much hope that we will be able to clarify this. Some specific questions have now been asked, but some of the points we want to stress in the alternative are, among other things, the following. The Red Cross's hearing answer, where they propose the number of single refugees per year. accommodation spaces are kept as low as possible, i.e. In the case of temporary work, it should be possible to establish what are the upper ceilings, in that it creates great uncertainty as to the length of time spent on temporary work. So these are some of the things we will be discussing in the further work of the committee. In addition, we would also like to discuss what noise we are talking about, i.e. what is acceptable noise before a building can be considered unsuitable for residential use. We think it is important to be careful to lower the standards of these temporary settlements while at the same time, in all likelihood, becoming more permanent homes for people on the run in an uncertain and insecure situation. So in the alternative, we are not immediately in favour of the draft law as it stands here, and we look forward to the further examination of the committee, where we hope to have clearer answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211623	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208211638	Thank you. With regard to this bill, too, we in the Radical Left have a great deal of sympathy for the task facing the municipalities. Municipalities must be helped so that they have the best opportunities to welcome refugees and establish cooperation with companies, with organisations, with volunteers, so that refugees can get started contributing as soon as possible, as they like, and as we would like, so that integration can get under way. That is why we in the Radical Left have also proposed giving the municipalities a helping hand of 350 million. kr., so they can build 5,000 cheap accommodations for refugees. The general housing sector backs up. They already have a refugee housing concept clearly, and given that the government and the supporting parties, with the introduction of this marginalisation integration benefit, have only made it harder for the municipalities to find suitable housing for refugees, it is indeed time for the municipalities to get some help. Some of the aid could also be good for us, as this bill proposes, to provide municipalities with a more flexible framework for finding more temporary housing. However, as in the previous draft law, I believe that there are still many uncertainties and questions which we cannot find answers to in the draft law. The only thing that is actually quite clear to me is that there are vacant buildings in Denmark. That is something that might be questioned, because the Minister continues to stand proudly at tent camps and proclaims that this is the best opportunity to house refugees. It is also clear that the legislative work will again be very hasty and that civil society cannot provide their input in time. However, we agree with the government that the municipalities must be ready for action, and that is precisely why it must also be made clear when this is an exceptional situation. It is not clearly described, nor was it during the last round of urgent legislative proposals. Is it the government's assessment of an extraordinary situation? Is that what the police are assessing? Is it up to the municipalities to assess this? Is it the majority of the Folketing that has to assess this? It is certainly not clear to me, but it may be that the Minister can explain it. I hope so. Then perhaps it is a piece of legislation that should only apply on a temporary basis. It is described in a section of the comments, but it is not in the legislative text. Is that a mistake? And again I would like to ask, like the previous rapporteurs: can we set some sort of limit for the change, very much inspired by the Red Cross's hearing response? Nor is it clear who has to pay. Should we give more money to the municipalities? Does the money come from the financing of the 25 000 refugees in the Finance Act, and will it be taken from development aid in that case? How many refugees does the government expect to arrive in 2015 and 2016? I understand it's a great idea, but it'll be good to get. And how many of them are expected to be single and thus included in the proposal to share living rooms? And can it be said that a larger number than the two recommended by the Red Cross can share a room? Again: In the Radical Left we would really like to help the municipalities to carry out the task of receiving the many refugees. We ourselves have put forward a large number of proposals for this. We also put forward a large number of proposals in the previous government in the motion for a resolution, all of which the Left did not at that time want to negotiate. But I hope that the Left will soon look at the proposals again. For us, there are still a lot of unclear things here, and again I would therefore strongly urge the government, at the same time as this hasty process that we are going to enter into, to initiate the work of an audit clause, it is an ordinary legislative process so that the government and the municipalities can have the opportunity to do so here if it should come to the very extraordinary situation, but also so that we can at the same time take into account a proper legislative process. After all, it will not bother the work of the municipalities or the government. On the contrary, it will only allow us legislators and consultation parties to actually have a proper process in which we can include all the skills we need and table the amendments we need to put forward. I would strongly urge the government to do so, and I heard that the Minister would consider it. I hope she'll do that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212147	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212157	Six months ago, I was not a member of the Folketing. At that time I sat down in Køge on the city council and we also struggled to take our share of the refugees who will stay in Denmark. I remember once having to find temporary accommodation for them, and we were a majority. Fortunately, we in Køge chose to place them in Borup. Then the parish council policy went into it. A Councillor from Borup from the Left would not have refugees temporarily placed in Borup, that is clear because you never know what such people might do, said the person. Fortunately, it ended up with a majority of temporary housing in Borup, and today it is a great time to have these people in the community. And that's how we've had several discussions about these temporary homes. It is just to say that yes, the municipalities are under pressure and there will be even more pressure, and there will be even more crazy discussions out there, because these are sometimes local politics. However, it is not my impression that the municipalities are under pressure because they have rules that are human, that is to say rules on how many people can live in a room. Nor is it my impression that the municipalities are under pressure because they have perfectly fair rules that people should not live near things with too high noise values. It is such humanity, or what we say, that you should not live near something so noisy that you cannot endure being there. And you have to have some peace after you've escaped. No, these are some other things that push the municipalities. I was in Aarhus yesterday, where you take a lot of refugees, and I asked them: What is it really that makes it difficult for you right now in relation to this housing thing? Are you having trouble finding temporary homes? No, it wasn't actually that, but it was the permanent housing that was challenging. And if you cannot find permanent housing for refugees, then the refugees living in temporary housing will end up living there longer, and when they live longer in temporary housing, there will not be enough temporary housing for the others. Why is it so difficult to find permanent homes? For example, they have done so because they have made a poverty benefit, half the income of the refugees. This means that there are practically no homes around the municipalities that these people can pay. This means that the municipalities do not know where to place the people who are coming to the country now. The Minister has sent a clear signal of that, I would like to commend the Minister for the fact that it should not be in the areas that are characterised as ghettos. Unfortunately, however, this is often where the cheap housing is. So they simply do not know where to place them. Then you are about to change the cheap housing law, i.e. the tool that the municipalities had to actually reserve part of the planning law to build more cheap housing. This is being withdrawn so that cities in particular will find it harder to build more cheap housing, i.e. permanent housing for refugees. It also puts pressure on us. And then the government will extend the poverty benefit to everyone. This means that the people who now live in a permanent dwelling will also have to halve their income base and potential income because that is at least what I was told yesterday will have to move out. And then they have to find quite other cheaper and permanent housing for the refugees too, which in turn will put pressure on the municipalities. So I just want to say that when you're under pressure out of town, it's not necessarily because of the temporary housing. Then it is because the government has made it harder and harder to be a municipality and to find permanent housing for refugees from the day it has stepped in. This isn't a solution in our eyes. Like I said, I was at a temporary accommodation center yesterday. I met four refugees. One could think of nothing but his daughter and needed quiet. She was stranded down there, she was sick, and she was in the middle of the battle zone. I mean, is he gonna live in some little room with somebody else? The second had the same problem: the same concern about his family. These people have fled. If I were to stay alone with four boys my age in some room that smelled like sweat, I would get stress in a short time. But there are some people who are always thinking about their family and how they feel. In fact, I do not think that is a solution. Then make it easier to build more cheap housing, and praise to Radicals for a very good proposal. Drop the poverty benefits, and then it will solve a lot for the municipalities around. We're not backing this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212617	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212623	As several rapporteurs have said, we are therefore in an extraordinary situation. There's gonna be a lot of it in the country. The municipalities are under pressure, and they are also under pressure in terms of housing. This bill is intended to give municipalities greater flexibility in relation to the task of temporarily placing refugees. It is a huge challenge for many municipalities to find suitable temporary housing, because the rules for the standard of housing etc. makes it more difficult to find those homes. Bill L 75 gives the Minister for Integration the power to lay down detailed rules for the provision of temporary accommodation to refugees. This means, among other things, that in future, single refugees must be able to be referred to sharing a living room with one or more other singles as temporary accommodation solutions. We think this is sensible in the current situation where there is a great deal of pressure, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212731	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's time for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212745	Thank you for the debate we have had here tonight. In the current situation, where there are historically many refugees coming to Denmark, the country's municipalities are under great pressure to carry out the task of finding housing for all refugees. I do not, in fact, hear anyone questioning that here today. I note that the municipalities are ready to carry out the task, but at the same time they are asking us to improve the framework for it. I am listening to that, and that is the reason for the draft law, which we have now had a first discussion of today. The draft law will give the municipalities a chance to solve the problem of housing which they do not have today. These are opportunities which the municipalities themselves have asked for, and it will now be up to the municipalities themselves to use them. I fully agree that some would say that refugees should have their own rooms and that we should not expose them to too much noise. We have heard that in today's debate. To that there is just to say that we in Denmark can be fully familiar with the conditions that we offer refugees, even more so in my opinion. The most important thing, after all, must be that we offer protection to those who are entitled to it, and fair and orderly conditions which then also allow individuals to integrate into society. And I definitely think we do. Thanks for the treatment here. There is a technical review of the bill itself later this evening.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212922	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212926	Does the Minister think that it has become easier or harder for the municipalities to find accommodation for the refugees, because they have introduced what I would call a poverty benefit, and which I know the Minister calls a so-called integration benefit, so a significantly lower benefit than what has been seen in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208212950	Well, I don't call it a so-called integration benefit. I call it the integration service, and that is also the right name. Having said that, there is no doubt that the intention is not, of course, that we should be on the benefits of integration. The idea is to enter the labour market, and that is where I believe that integration is a very good step on the way, because it is not a high performance, nor is it supposed to be. On the contrary, there must be a very clear incentive to enter the labour market and a step on the road to the labour market, for example. be, if you learn Danish, then if you do, you will simultaneously trigger a language bonus. So if Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen asks whether it is harder to find accommodation at a lower price, then I would say that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen may well be right about that, but the intention is not just to be placed on the integration service. The idea is to get out and work and thus be integrated into Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213048	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213050	I think it is a relatively great arrogance that is shown to the municipalities, because a great many municipalities have just pointed out that this is where people are placed on such low pay and it is of course most refugees who from day one can enter the Danish labour market and support themselves just makes it really, really difficult for the municipalities to find some places where the refugees can live. I would like to ask the Minister if it would not be sensible to introduce some kind of ceiling on how long you can stay temporarily, for example. More in one room.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213129	No. I think it must be up to the municipalities. I have not heard a single mayor disagree that it is, of course, a question of having the refugees who have now been given to their local authority placed in a permanent residence. But until you find a permanent residence, it is only appropriate that the municipalities have a rather flexible framework, and they have this. So no, no, no ceiling will be introduced for how long you have to live under these a little more temporary conditions. Again: I honestly believe that the most important thing if you come to Denmark must be that you are in a safe place, that someone is looking out for you and that you have some reasonable relationships. And I certainly believe that we are offering that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213212	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213217	Does the Minister recognise that it is a major problem for municipalities to find permanent housing because the benefits of the refugees have been halved, so that there is simply not enough cheap housing for the people who are going to have permanent housing now and in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213234	The question is, after all, completely identical to what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has said, and that is why the answer will also be identical. It is not intended to remain in the field of integration; it is intended to enter the labour market. A good step along the way must be to acquire the language. This will trigger a language bonus. But yes, it's harder to find a home if you have less money to pay with. It's everything else just easier to find a home if you have a lot of money to pay with. But the intention is not to provide for an integration benefit; the intention is to enter the labour market. And I hope that the rapporteur agrees with me on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213314	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213316	Unfortunately, this is rare because we focus so little on good integration. I really want to end up somewhere else than the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. In other words, when there are not enough cheap housing and we are talking so awfully little about how we create cheap housing... I would just like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister what initiatives the Minister will take to ensure more cheap housing for refugees, but also for young people in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213343	Well, there are a number of initiatives to provide cheap housing, but let me just come back to the issue of the role of the municipalities in this. In other words, this is a helping hand to the municipalities, so that the municipalities are not so pressured to find a permanent accommodation for the refugees who have now been assigned to the municipality in question. This is a hand-out, and I really think it's a bit too bad that SF can't immediately back up a hand-up to the municipalities in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213421	The next brief remark is from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213427	Thank you. Well, I am glad to hear that initiatives are under way to find more cheap housing in the municipalities. Will the Minister also be in favour of helping the Radical Left proposal to build more cheap housing in the municipalities backed by the general housing sector, which even has a proposal? Will the Minister help us to move forward along that path as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213453	I have to admit, therefore, that I do not know the radical proposal in detail, and that is why I am not going to take a position on it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213457	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213459	I shall be glad to have that forwarded to the Minister if she has not read it recently. But then I can ask the Minister whether the Minister will then be in favour, or again at least consider here when the Minister intends to have completed his reflections on whether a revision clause can also be included in this bill, so that the Minister can have the opportunity to give this flexibility to the municipalities immediately, and so that the legislative assembly can also have the opportunity to deal with the bill properly at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213539	No, I am not prepared to do so. And it is actually the case that this bill has a longer discussion here in the Folketing than the previous proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213548	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151208213605	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 9 December 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
