ParlaMint-DK_20150219100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Bjarne Corydon): Bill no. L 140 (Proposal for a law amending various legal provisions relating to applications, requests, communications and complaints to public authorities. on personal allowances and health allowances, the submission of complaints to the Patient Offers, the Disciplinary Board of the Health Service and to the Board of Appeal of the Patient Replacement Board, the application for the issue of certificates of personnel in the field of air transport, the request for the handling of complaints from air passengers, the application for driver training certificates, etc.)). Mikkel Dencker (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 76 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a neutral loan pool for the replacement of obsolete energy installations). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Question No. F 24 (What can the Minister say about the use of volunteers by municipalities and regions, including to what extent municipalities and regions themselves recruit and organise volunteers, to what extent is this done through agreements with voluntary organisations, and to what extent do volunteers replace trained staff, and what municipalities and regions do to avoid this happening?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing, Maja Panduro, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 24 February 2015 onwards she will be able to rejoin the Parliament. René Björnsson's duties as a member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. From members of the Folketing Morten Marinus and Jonas Dahl, who are on leave, I have been informed that from 28 February 2015 they will be able to meet again in Tinget. Ib Poulsens's and Sanne Rubinkes's duties as temporary members of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100126	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100200	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 25 of Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen (S), Peter Juel Jensen (V), Bent Bøgsted (DF), Nadeem Farooq (RV) and Charlotte Dyremose (KF), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 86 (S, V, DF, V and KF) voted against 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) abstentions 12 (SF and LA). Proposal for adoption No V 25 has been adopted. On the basis of the proposal for adoption No. V 24 by Jørgen Arbo-BæhrBæhr (EL) and Eigil Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100304	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100324	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 108 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100350	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100414	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 108 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100439	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100500	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 108 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100530	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? The Minister for the Environment does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219100549	I choose to take the floor here at the third reading of the L 94 bill, which follows up on the Government's Nature Plan Denmark and the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. I am, of course, very pleased that today we can adopt this important bill, although of course I would have liked to have seen a broad majority in the Danish Parliament agree to give nature this much-needed boost, and that we could jointly finish the work of following up the Nature and Agriculture Commission, so that we ensure that there is a good balance between growth and development in the agricultural industry on the one hand and the consideration of our nature on the other. But I have to say that it is unfortunately only one side of the Danish Parliament that is concerned with achieving that balance. The Blue Block will vote against this proposal, which, as I said, follows up some of the key recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission on nature. The growth initiatives, which we agreed on last spring and which contained a number of measures that create better conditions for agriculture and the food industries, would be welcomed, but when it comes to the follow-up to nature, good will is over. If you listen to the arguments about why you do not want to support, for example. The Green Denmark Card, which is an important part of this bill, that is to say the municipalities' obligation to plan for nature on the basis of a common new map base and common criteria across municipal boundaries, sounds as if, at least if you have to listen to the Left and the arguments that have come from the Left in this debate, you are actually on the way with a stop to new protected nature; a natural stop if you would follow the rhetoric of the Left from other areas. The Left is concerned that Green Denmark Cards will put new restrictions on agriculture, because nature in the new green corridors can potentially develop in the long term to be protectively rare nature, such as: may be sensitive to ammonia and may therefore restrict the expansion of livestock production. But it is true of all new nature today that it can potentially develop into vulnerable protectionable nature. So one has to understand that one is therefore against all new nature that can develop into vulnerable nature, otherwise one must at least be prepared to relax the current protection of our nature. And, unfortunately, this is also in line with the line taken by the bourgeois people in the agricultural proposal that has been put forward and which will put the fight for cleaner water, our water environment, back ten years. The Left would like to make this a discussion about whether or not there should be room for agriculture in Denmark. And let me be quite clear: there must be, and there is. Denmark is one of the most intensively cultivated countries in the world, 60%. of our land is under plow. In the EU, it is approx. 25% on average, in our neighbouring country Sweden it is 5-6 per cent that is under plough. The Government has taken a number of initiatives to improve the conditions and opportunities for growth for agriculture, and to claim that this proposal, which refers to the ban on fertilising and spraying Section 3 areas should make up for the gains that the industry has received from the growth initiatives, makes no sense. It is not, of course, a question of rolling back the growth initiatives we have taken; we need to see this in a context and in a whole. It is stated quite openly that the § 3 ban will have economic consequences. We have calculated them to approx. 47 million kr. That is to say, up to 80%. of those affected by this ban, it will be a loss in economic terms in the region of up to DKK 7,500. per holding. It is, it might be said, limited to the general economy of agriculture. I understand that this may be a great cost for some, and that is why the draft law also provides for the possibility of applying for exemption or compensation if the proposal is particularly seriously affected. I have also indicated that I am willing to see whether it is possible at an early stage to take concrete decisions on possible exemptions or expropriation. I have therefore asked the Danish Nature Agency to contact the DA and the Ministry of Food in order to seek to provide an administrative model for handling such cases. The government insists that it is possible to find a balance where there is also room for nature, where we take care of our nature and ensure prosperity for nature. That balance, I must say, is absent from opposition policy. Unfortunately, there's nature written out of the equation. So the questions that remain are how the blue block will ensure that we in Denmark meet our goal of halting the decline in biodiversity by 2020, as we are committed to. It is empty talk when you say that you want nature, if you are not also prepared to show it in action.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101116	There are four brief comments so far and they are taken from the seats. I hope that the fine calm in the Chamber will be maintained along the way. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen is first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101129	Thank you. The Minister sometimes has an incredibly provocative way of saying things: the Left does not want nature, the Left puts things at a standstill, etc. I have to say that I really had hoped that perhaps the Minister was one of the ministers who also advocated dialogue on matters. I can say that the Left wants balance, the Left wants nature, we have said that from day one, and of course we stick to that. Where this bill simply does not fit in with reality, there is where the draft law binds a great many farmers in a situation where they are now unable to grow the land in the future, as they have done so far. I have tried to get answers from the Minister with a great many written questions. I've got one of them. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: of your land suddenly now is in a different situation and you can't grow it anymore, can you be sure that your land will be expropriated?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101242	It is true that a great many written questions have been answered. We have also had two consultations on this matter, where I have also said very clearly that the draft law provides an opportunity to apply for exemption or compensation if you are severely affected by this § 3 ban. But it will be a concrete assessment on a case-by-case basis, going in and looking at different parameters. I have also explained them to Mrs Anni Matthiesen and in the answers I have given. So I am incomprehensible about the fact that the Left does not think that answers have been given to its questions. What I just have to say is that, now that we are standing here and voting today, the immediate positive approach to, among others, is a little positive. the green Danish map, which, among other things, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen had, when we presented the Danish Nature Plan, disappeared. I have to interpret it as saying that when you are concerned that new nature can develop into vulnerable nature, you have to be against new protected nature in Denmark in general, because the green Danish map does not add anything to the situation that already exists, namely that if nature develops into vulnerable nature, it must, of course, be protected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101351	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101352	There are a lot of concerns, and I can also tell the Minister for the Environment that it is there when you come outside these thick walls. There are very many farmers who are being hit very hard by this bill, and I think I have also mentioned to the Minister for the Environment in the consultations that I have called for farmers to be affected by this already. When they have to apply for an extension of their overdraft, the bank advisor says they have to see how this bill is being voted through. Is that not something that affects the Minister for the Environment, because I assume that the government still wants growth and jobs in rural areas too, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101432	I can confirm that. The government does that to a great extent. That is also why I appeal to the government's overall policy towards the agricultural industry in Denmark to bear in mind all the initiatives we have taken to respond to the desires for better growth and a framework for the agricultural industry. After all, the government, in cooperation with the Left, has also taken a series of initiatives which respond to requests from agriculture to improve their framework conditions. So here is an appeal, even when we vote on this proposal today, to look at the whole and remember that this is the second half of the follow-up to the report by the Nature and Agriculture Commission. After all, we followed up with the growth initiatives in the spring, and now we are following up on the nature recommendations. I would have liked it to be with a broad majority in the Folketing as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101518	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101521	One is a little ashamed of the fact that one has an environment minister who makes such remarks in the biggest crisis in Danish agriculture so far. She's talking about 7,000 kroner. For a crew nothing means anything. Now we must do something about nature, the Left and the bourgeois will not take care of nature. I mean, it's no wonder we're not there when you meet such an attitude from a minister who has to negotiate an agreement. I think that the Minister should have a conversation with the ministers responsible for the economy in this government that we should not impose more expenditure on agriculture, but that agriculture should have a guarantee that they can actually manage before they are burdened with more. I would like to ask the Minister if she can guarantee here in the Folketing that farmers will not receive more than DKK 7 000. In the cost of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101614	Again, I must remind you, sir. Esben Lunde Larsen about the range of initiatives the government has taken to ensure better growth and framework conditions for Danish agriculture. It is also something that I sometimes hear farmers say: it is recognised that the government has taken many initiatives to improve the framework conditions. The government is preoccupied with the whole thing. The government is concerned with the balance sheet, and this is the case with the government as a whole. The approach we have to this is that we are not just following up on one half of the report by the Nature and Agriculture Commission. We are following up on the whole, as was the intention when we set up this Commission. To Mr. Esben Lunde Larsens's specific question I can answer no, because it is also very clear in the answers I have given to the Danish Parliament. We have presented openly and honestly what the financial consequences for the industry will be of this ban on spraying and fertilizing on section 3 areas. What I said, and I'll say that again, was that at 81%. of the farms that are affected, you will have a loss of up to DKK 7,500, and therefore there will also be some who are hit harder. I recognise that, and that is what the government recognises, and that is why there is an opportunity to apply for exemption and compensation if you are particularly hard hit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101724	Sir. Esben Lunde Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101726	That is marvellous, because the Minister does not at the same time say that there is a derogation. One of the most critical aspects of this is that there is so much mistrust on the part of agriculture to the government and the administration, for example, that there is fear of being subjected to abuse in situations where, for example, compensation is needed, but there is no guarantee that you will get it. That is why we are in a situation where the legal position of the farmer is put out of hand, despite the fact that he has the right to own land which he has owned for years or for generations. Of course, that cannot be ignored, and I am therefore proud that the bourgeois parties and the Left are saying no to this proposal, but yes to the farmer's legal position.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101808	Now Generalizing, sir. Esben Lunde Larsen. I think we should look at what is in this proposal. It is not unusual for an expropriation case to be a specific assessment in each case. It will also be in this case, and I have said from the outset that there will be some who will be harder hit and they will have the opportunity to apply for exemption or compensation. I have also indicated, and it was on the basis of the last consultation that we had, where I think Mrs Anni Matthiesen raised a relevant objection, that it would be good if we could start looking at these expropriation and exemption applications. I would very much like to do that as soon as possible. That is what I have just said, including from today's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101849	Sir. Erling Bonnesen with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101852	Thank you. This government bill is another clear breach by the government. After all, the Prime Minister stood a year ago and said that the proposals which should now come from the government and be adopted in the Folketing should provide economic benefits for the professions and therefore also for agriculture. This is going to be the opposite. It is in a situation where we have an industry that is incredibly hard pressed. We see falling commodity prices. It will cost jobs. That is what the government is aiming for. Then the government is accusing us in the Left that we don't want nature. Yes, of course we will. We have plenty of evidence of this, but I can only say that the government does not want to acquire, the government does not want agriculture. One is said in rural policy, but does something quite different in practice. It's disgraceful. How does the Minister for the Environment feel about killing more jobs in the food sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101941	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219101944	That's amazing. To have to listen to the fact that when the government follows up the nature recommendations in the Nature and Agriculture Commission's report, it should be an expression of a breach of the government's promise, is amazing. From day one, when we sat down in government offices, the government has been concerned to find it, I recognise, difficult balance between ensuring, on the one hand, that there is room for growth and development in our agricultural industry, and, on the other hand, ensuring that we live up to the commitments we have, not only under international conventions, but certainly also with future generations, to ensure that there is room for development and progress in our nature. It is the government's overall follow-up to the report by the Commission on Nature and Agriculture, which I call for attention to be paid here, and I call for this not to be done as Mr. Erling Bonnesen and say that when we make this proposal, it is an expression of the government's policy towards the agricultural industry. I must remind you of the series of initiatives taken by the government to ensure better framework conditions and conditions for the growth and development of Danish agriculture, which I also experience that agriculture recognises that we have taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102050	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102051	Well, what the Minister for the Environment is saying now doesn't add up at all. We have clearly said in the Left that we will, of course, also take care of the environment, that we also want clean water in the taps, and we are also ready to make proposals on this, on minive areas and also on other areas, so that we can take good care of the environment and ensure nature. But we must also safeguard the industry and jobs, and that is where the chain goes off for the Minister, and that is so shameful. There are, of course, plenty of meetings being held around, including in the banks and in the financial sector, where bankruptcy and job losses are almost daily heard, and that also affects the financial sector, but the government and the Minister for the Environment have to face up to that. The Minister for Industry has also said in the past that agriculture should be the first priority, but that no longer has it for the government, we can just say.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102135	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102137	To claim that this proposal would offset the gains that the industry has gained in terms of the other initiatives taken by the government to ensure growth and framework conditions is simply too far-fetched. Excuse me, sir. Erling Bonnesen must be on his own for that calculation, which I certainly cannot recognize. When you say that the Left is ready to make some suggestions on how we can improve the environment in Denmark, I would say: bring them, I look forward to seeing them. The only thing that has been presented is an agricultural package that has been presented together with the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party and which will put environmental policy back ten years. So I look forward to seeing the concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102216	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102220	I was so happy when I heard the Prime Minister in his New Year speech talking about the government finally seeing the light, now we needed to create further growth in our country in various areas, so the economy started, so we got more jobs and so on. Then I must just wonder what line has been taken when one finds so soon that the government is now insisting on carrying out something that hits a profession that is in an historic deep crisis, one of our most important export industries at all, one of the few industries that generates jobs and jobs in those parts of the country where it is already difficult to get jobs and jobs. I would just like to ask: how does this proposal relate to what the Prime Minister promised us in his New Year speech, namely that further growth and job initiatives would now be needed in our country? And I just have to ask whether the Minister for the Environment is not impressed by the fact that she stands and praises herself and the government for the many, I understand, initiatives that have been taken to solve the crisis for agriculture, that not even as Minister for the Environment and for that matter the Minister for Food has not been invited for the first time in 40 years to one of the biggest fairs, Roskilde Dyrkappe, to speak this summer, but that the industry has said: No thanks, we would like to have another policy and another minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102334	Then it's the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102336	Once again, I have to ask whether it is claimed by the Left that this proposal, which we have openly and frankly presented as to what economic consequences will have, equalises the range of initiatives to improve the framework conditions and conditions for the growth of Danish agriculture that this government has taken together with the Left and the bourgeois parties, since we, among other things, have taken. they made two food growth packages. I hope, then, that the Left recognizes that there are very good initiatives that have at least been supported by them when we made the agreements which ensure that we have the opportunity, for example. with the change of the conversion factor to produce 1.5 million more pigs in the Danish stables, that we halved the rim zone area, something that the bourgeois government itself came up with when they made water plans. So, is this saying that this proposal cancels these growth initiatives? You just have to stand up for that and prove how that is going to be the case. I understand that agriculture is in a difficult situation and that is why the government has also taken a number of initiatives to improve the framework conditions in Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102447	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102448	I just assumed that the initiatives that had been taken were included in the Prime Minister's assessment when she said in her New Year's speech: more growth initiatives are needed for our country. And when you can see that Danish agriculture is in a deep crisis in history we do not export the number of goods we could; on the contrary, if we export the jobs instead of the jobs, it was just my general impression that the government would then also take the lead in following up on what the Prime Minister promised the Danes in his New Year speech. I have to say that is not what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102519	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102520	I just want to remind you, sir. Jacob Jensen said that the government presented this proposal in October. The Prime Minister was in October launching Nature Plan Denmark, of which this proposal was part. So, of course, it was also part of the balance that the government has always been concerned with creating in that area, and we, together with the Nature and Agriculture Commission, got the main experts in this country to look at how we achieve that balance. We have followed up on the growth recommendations last spring along with the bourgeois parties I am very pleased about that. I think it was some good proposals that we were able to promote and I would have liked that there would also be a broad majority behind achieving that balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102558	Mrs Mette Bock for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102600	After all, we live in a democracy in which a majority can decide exactly what they want, and if we have a majority in the Danish Parliament who wants more of the Danish land to be built into nature, we must bow to it. But if you want to tone clean flags, you have to say: then we expropriate. Then I think we could get a satisfied profession that had expropriated the land that cannot be used for production. They get a compensation under the Constitution, and then we have no problem with the way you do it now, when you just slowly take bite by bit, slowly take more and more reservations about how the land can be used. So why does the government not state clearly and say: this land we want to protect; we want to convert it into nature; we expropriate it and we pay compensation to the farmers affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102648	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102649	Well, this earth is nature. It is our protected nature, which is registered in Section 3 of the Nature Conservation Act. It's protected nature. By far the largest part of the § 3 registered nature has been exempted from fertilization and spraying since the adoption of the Nature Conservation Act. There was then a part of the § 3 protected nature where you did not then take the step fully and said that you should not spray and fertilise our protected nature. That's what the government is doing with this proposal based on a desire to bring about some real improvements for our nature and our biological diversity, and we have the words of scientists that precisely spraying and fertilizing on these lands makes a very big difference in terms of what species can live there and of the biological diversity that thus exists on these lands. So the reason for our proposal is that this nature is already protected by nature, and that is why we want that protection also to be a real protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102750	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102751	I am well aware of the reasons for the government's proposals, but I ask why they do not expropriate that land and pay compensation to the farmers concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102802	But we have had an assessment of this proposal and of the consequences it will have for the farmers concerned. We have the Chamberlain's word that this can be implemented as a general, non-customist regulation. But there may be farmers who in particular are hit hard by this proposal, namely if you have many § 3 lands on your property. If you're one of them, you can apply for a waiver or compensation in relation to this ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102827	Mrs Tina Nedergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102830	Thank you. I would like to deal with a more general part of the proposal which the Minister has mentioned. The Minister says that you can apply for exemption or compensation if it substantially exceeds the DKK 7,500. per property or pr. agriculture. Wouldn't the Minister try to be a little more specific? After all, as my good colleague from Northern Jutland would have said, it is to sell rubber band in meter terms to say that you can apply without specifying what it takes before the Minister considers that you are up to an amount where it will be able to provide compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102910	However, as I think I have answered in a number of the questions raised in the committee's proceedings, it will be a case-by-case assessment whether or not it is an expropriation, and that is why it will be on the basis of a specific application that that assessment will be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102926	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219102928	Yes, I understand that, and this must necessarily be the case when the government has decided that this should not happen after expropriation, as Mrs Mette Bock otherwise very well suggested and said that we have looked at. I do not understand, however, that the Minister for Agriculture, for which I have great sympathy, but also for those people who look a little wondering at the government at a time when one of our biggest export industries is so pressured, is not a little more careful to say that it must be based on a concrete assessment. In other words, can the Minister not come a little closer and answer what the Minister thinks would be a level of compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103004	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103005	Well, there are many factors that need to be taken into account in such a concrete assessment. This is also something that we have been discussing on a regular basis during the committee procedure, and that is why it will be based on a concrete assessment. It is not something that can be decided by saying so much of your area or so much of your turnover. There will be a concrete assessment on a case-by-case basis, and we will not come closer to it. I have indicated that I would like to help to see whether we can speed up this process as soon as possible, so that we do not have to go around uncertainly. I think that is quite reasonable for us to do so, and it is one of the concessions that has been made to the Left during this process. So I think that should be welcomed instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103043	Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103046	Thank you. It was a serious Monday we had. There was an agenda that was dealt with elsewhere, so I was sitting at a meeting with 650 farmers in East Jutland, and I can say that it is not the case that people are being listened to and understand that farmers are going bankrupt and that there is a crowded industry down to their knees. Now they are being cared for by the fact that there will be a legislative proposal which will be adopted today, which will further tighten up with fertilization and with respect to section 3 areas. How does this relate to the Prime Minister's New Year's speech: We want growth, we want Denmark to move on and out of the crisis? Where does the Minister for the Environment think that the agenda for support and care is linked here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103141	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103142	This government has been concerned from day to day with finding the balance which, indeed, is difficult to find, but which we insist must be possible to find. We must have room for a strong agricultural industry in Denmark, and I would like to put a thick line on that, and the government also believes that we should have and that we have in Denmark. That is why we have taken a number of initiatives to improve conditions for Danish agriculture. We created a growth plan for food together, where there was an opportunity to secure a greater raw material base for our food industry; there was an opportunity to produce more, and some of the great concessions that were desired from agriculture were given in relation to peripheral areas, after-crops and others. So I really think that in this case too, the Left should try to see things a little in a whole. It is my silent appeal today that, instead of focusing unequivocally on a single proposal, we look at the balance of the government's approach to this whole area and also contribute to creating more space, better conditions for our nature in Denmark, and create the necessary balance between those considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103249	Mrs. Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103250	I'm sorry, Minister. It is a total misunderstanding to help a profession to think that if they can take a coffee basket and sit out and enjoy themselves on their § 3 areas, then they are well helped. This is the wrong time to come and take another bite on top of many of the other bites that have been taken, because we need more Danish nature for coffee baskets and for amphibians and for dunhammers. We have to deal with it, and I see that the government does not do so; that is why the rest of us have to do it, and we then take our responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103329	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103331	I think it is an interesting view of nature that is being presented here by the Left. So, is what is being said here by Mrs Anne-Mette-Mette Winther Christiansen, the Left's view of the importance of Danish nature? I think this is interesting, and I think that this whole debate we have had on L 94, on the Nature Plan Denmark, has unfortunately pointed out that it is not a challenge that is being taken particularly seriously by the Left, that our nature is in decline on a number of fronts, and that we have an international obligation to ensure that we slow down the decline in our biological diversity in Denmark by 2020. That is why I am calling here today for what the bourgeois bloc will be presenting with proposals that can improve nature and ensure that we comply with the international commitments we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103421	Sir. Karsten Nonbo for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103426	I would actually have liked the Minister not to take the floor, because if you kill a profession, could you not at least let the funeral take place quietly? That's one of the strangest and cruelest things I've ever heard. I do not want to enter into a debate with the Minister, because one cannot see on stone ground. In the end, agriculture will have to be set on a rocky ground with the Minister for the Environment we have. It is simply so rude to listen to. I would advise farmers to start up a company that imports grain from Bangladesh, because there is a greater chance of earning from it than there is of farming with the minister we have in that area. Thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103509	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103511	I have to say that this is an irresponsible level of debate. To claim that this proposal would mean that all Danish agriculture goes downside-down, is simply so far-fetched, I would say to Mr. Karsten Nonbo, and then you have to stand up for yourself to prove that that's what will be the consequence of this proposal. From the outset, we have made it clear openly and honestly that this will have economic consequences in the region of 47 million. kr. In relation to the total Danish agricultural turnover, may I ask Mr. Karsten Nonbo to document how it is connected that it will mean death for the entire Danish agricultural industry. I recognise that there are farmers who will be hard hit by this proposal. That is why I have also indicated that it will be possible to apply for exemption or compensation in the draft law. There will be an opportunity to adapt over three growing periods to this proposal. So I think that if you make such allegations, you have to be able to prove that this is the case if you want to stand and say it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103614	Sir. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103616	I think that the Minister for the Environment should go home and read his opening speech here at the third reading and then try to consider what has been said. Where should compensation be sought at the end? Should it be taken from early retirement, should it be taken from the recipients of cash benefits? After all, there is no producing industry to take it off if we continue that line. I don't need an answer, because this is the debate of the crossed blades.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103644	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103646	Okay, so I have to understand that the Left wants everyone to have expropriation, but you ask me where the money is going to come from to the share of farmers who can get expropriation with this proposal. That argument is not connected at all, I would say to Mr McMillan-Scott. Karsten Nonbo. You have to measure up to the claims you make here yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103706	Sir. René Christensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103709	Thank you and also thank the Minister for taking the floor today. This is quite interesting, because what the Minister says is: that fertilizing § 3 areas is to harm nature, nature is damaged by the fact that we fertilize our § 3 areas. When you read the bill, you will see that the Minister says that if you have a conventional cow walking on the land and you fertilise, you destroy nature. But if you have an organic cow walking on the same land, you do not destroy nature. Is that how you're supposed to understand it? Or is it here because the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Food wants to cut down conventional farming and you want us to go over and become such a little bit more Morten Korch and only have ecology? Is that what's really in it? 'Cause then you can say it. The Minister can use his majority, but the Minister must be honest and tell us why this is being done. It is because you want to get rid of the conventional and you want to promote the ecological. It's fair enough to have that agenda, but tell me the truth! But what is the difference between being an organic farmer and a conventional farmer and fertilizing a section 3 area?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103806	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103807	No, the government does not want conventional agriculture to be destroyed. We have an objective that we want to double the ecological area by 2020, and that is why we have made an exception here for the ecologists, so that we can ensure that we achieve the ambitious objective of doubling the ecological area by 2020. So it is of course a political choice that we want to have more ecology in Denmark, and therefore there is that exception in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103837	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103839	In other words, if there are more and more organic farmers, there are more and more land that, in the words of the Minister, can get manure out and thus destroy nature. That must then be what we can conclude. If you are an organic farmer and you fertilize your area, you do not destroy nature; you only do that if you are a conventional farmer. That does not add up, I would say to the Minister. Either you do this for nature, or you do it to push another profession away, because if you change your form of production into ecology, you can be out on the land and fertilize. Can't the Minister himself hear that it's hollow? It doesn't add up! That is because the government wants another way, and that is fair enough, because it is a political choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103921	We are doing this to ensure a balance between considerations of industry, growth and development and then nature. And I still miss seeing what proposals the Blue Block is going to put forward to ensure that we make progress in our nature in Denmark, because it is completely absent from this debate, what it is that we are supposed to do in this area. This applies not only to our international commitments, but also to future generations. And yes, this will bring about an improvement in our nature, and there can be no discussion about that at all, and I think Mr. René Christensen was supposed to acknowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219103957	There remain many who wish to make a brief comment. I am now going to close off further short remarks. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104006	Thank you. I have to admit that it is one, I must admit, very arrogant minister who just dismisses one concern after another from an industry that is so hard, that you have your back against the wall. This is, of course, about whether we still want to see a production industry which has so many hundreds of thousands of people employed either directly or indirectly, survive on the long track or not. There we have the Minister standing so arrogantly and dismissing it all: well, the Left does not want any environment, the Left does not want yours and that. It is as if the Minister did not understand that this could mean the loss of thousands of jobs in the long run. Agriculture & Food has estimated that a loss of value on these different soils, which has a total size approximately equal to Falster, will be 1.8 billion. kr. At the same time, we have this arrogant minister who just says it doesn't matter. Is the Minister not aware that it may well be that the Minister is the Minister for the Environment, but does the Minister want there to be a production industry in the future too, or does the Minister just care?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104110	We would have liked several members of the Left to have followed the debate on this proposal, i.e. Nature Plan Denmark, also in committee, because I think that we have actually got around very well the many people who have been involved in this proposal. And we have openly and honestly put forward what it is for economic consequences that will be for the industry; how the distribution will be of § 3 soil percentage, relative to how many will be affected and how hard. We've been open about that. What I am appealing to today is that the blue parties, the bourgeois parties, are also trying to strike a balance in their policies instead of completely writing nature out of the equation. Because we completely miss the answers that the government with this proposal gives to how we want to ensure progress for our nature in Denmark. I understand that yes, this proposal has economic consequences. We have presented it openly and honestly. But it must be seen in relation to the many growth initiatives that this government has also taken. To claim that this should cancel the growth initiatives and the benefits of them, I can by no means recognize, and this claim must then also be documented by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104225	I do not know whether I should make that remark to both the Minister and the authors, that if they think that an argument has been mentioned, then they do not need to use all their speaking time. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104237	It may well be that our dear President of the Danish Parliament, a little politician, thinks that many arguments have been heard, but that is because we are concerned. That's because we're extremely worried about this business, which is really hard. And at the same time we have a minister who just dismisses these concerns as if it doesn't matter. Now the Minister says again and again, and the Minister has repeated this many times, that we must remember that growth initiatives have also been given to agriculture, understood that then it means nothing. It's kind of like a man with a broken leg walked into a hospital. He was given plaster around the broken leg, and afterwards he was struck down with a bat. So I guess the person wouldn't be so happy anyway, and that's exactly the consequence this is going to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104315	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104316	I think that some proportionality needs to be taken into account in this discussion. So, I must ask the Left to bear in mind that the economic impact of this proposal lies in approx. 47 million kr. In view of the growth initiatives that we have taken together, namely the growth packages made by the government, with improved funding opportunities for agriculture, with improved framework conditions and the fulfilment of a number of the wishes of the agricultural industry, I would just ask that we get some proportionality in relation to how we assess this proposal. To say that it completely cancels the growth initiatives that have come makes no sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104356	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmide-Schmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104359	Now I do not know whether the minister sometimes sees a coach professionally, but if the minister sees a coach, I hope that coach tells the minister that the minister has an attitude problem. The way to stand up and say that the Left does not want nature is about as true as claiming that there is not a single worker left in the Social Democracy, where we all know that the latter is probably more true than the first. I am sorry to say that agriculture is not usually something I deal with very much in the municipality of Lyngby-Taarbæk, but the way to address the Folketing is simply under the dignity of the Minister. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is true that in an open consultation the Minister has said the following: what agriculture received in the growth package in relation to the peripheral areas, we are now losing out. And I would ask the Minister to remember that the Minister is under ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104443	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104445	I am not going to discuss here in Parliament who has attitude problems. But I can at least say so much that if you look at the range of growth initiatives that this government has taken in relation to the framework conditions for Danish agriculture, and then claim that this proposal alone should neutralize those measures so that they have not given any benefit at all, you are very far out. So it is very far-fetched to say so. And then the Left itself will have to stand up for that, if that is what you say. What I just needed to come up and say from the platform today is that, when it comes to the follow-up to the nature recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, I regret that there is a side of the Danish Parliament that is concerned about finding that balance and that the other side of the Danish Parliament will not be involved in discussing how we can improve the conditions for our nature in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104539	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104541	I repeat the question, and it is actually quite simple: did the Minister say in open consultation that what was given to agriculture in the growth package is now being taken away with this bill? And can the Minister subsequently guarantee that the cost to the individual farmer will not be more than DKK 7 000 and that exemption can be obtained? These are three very simple questions, and it would be nice if the Minister replied to that rather than repeating that much has been done for agriculture. Honestly, we can't use that much down here in the back rows.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104605	I myself do not have a full transcript of what I have said in consultation. But compared to the 7,000 kroner. In any case, in relation to what the President has just said, I can say that I have been able to answer that today at the same time to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Esben Lunde Larsen, namely that the equation, which is laid out, is that 81 per cent. of the affected farmers will have a loss of up to DKK 7,500. There are others who will be harder hit and it is then to the last question • and it will be those who can apply for exemption or compensation. So there will be a derogation and replacement option, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104637	Mrs Karen Ellemann for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104639	I think, in the many answers, the Minister has tried to create a picture that in this way the Left does not understand that agricultural policy and our land in Denmark are precisely a question of finding the right balance between use and protection. We fully acknowledge that. The reason we're opponents here is, among other things. What Mrs Mette Bock mentioned earlier in her question is that the Minister himself makes it very clear here that this could be a farmer who suffers a very, very great loss. He can no longer cultivate the land. Ergo there is no business in that piece of land anymore, because it must be turned into protected nature. Peace be with it, that's the protection. But the Minister then explains that there will be an opportunity to seek compensation. An option is not a right, and that is why the discussion is always about how the expropriation business takes place. Can the Minister come any closer? The minister says: For 80 percent, it is only DKK 7,000. How about the last 20 percent?? What does that mean? What legal position do they have in order to obtain compensation for the fact that they can no longer benefit from the land they own?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104753	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104754	In fact, I am very pleased that Karen Ellemann, as the first speaker today, recognises the need to look at the balance between protection and use. I think it is important to maintain that there is clearly recognition in the Left of the need to look at it. I would just like to say again that then I miss seeing what these proposals are for concrete proposals and how the Left, how the bourgeois parties will follow up in relation to nature when it comes to finding that balance. That is something that must be shown in action and not just in words. In relation to when this proposal will mean expropriation, I have said, and I repeat, it will depend on a specific assessment in the individual case, and so I would urge those who experience that they are particularly badly affected by this proposal to seek.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104844	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104846	Search, and you must find. So: Seek a replacement; we take your land, dear farmer, you can no longer cultivate it, you can keep it, but you can no longer benefit from it. Ergo, you're gonna lose money because there's no longer a chance to grow it. That's why it's no use just making the announcement: You can apply for some money. There has to be a right. Does the Minister not have a position that it should be a right if you say: we have to protect, in the case of nature, some land that you own, which means that you can no longer get any benefit from them? Ergo, there's gotta be a replacement. It can't just be an application. Can the Minister not give a confirmation and give a guarantee that there will be a compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219104930	It sounds as if we need to clarify again what nature we are talking about here. Because when we talk about the § 3 protected nature, it's already protected nature. It is not intensively cultivated land. I hope that the former Minister for the Environment also recognises that there is no intensive cropping here and that we are not taking this land out of production. It will be possible to continue to use it for example. grazing or hayswing. It's just no longer possible to spray and fertilize that soil. So it is not the case that we take it out of production as it is being put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105004	Sir. Daniel Rugholm for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105007	If you sit as a citizen and see this debate, you can understand that what we call politicians is going to happen. I think the Minister's generalizing is pretty rough. We talk a little about the fact that a lot has been done, and that is why we must now obviously do something bad. That's kind of the logic I'm experiencing. I would like to acknowledge some of the good initiatives that the government has also taken. The problem is that you take one step forward and two steps back in relation to these things. That is why fisheries want a new government; that is why agriculture wants a new government; and that is why, Læsø, where the Minister for the Environment, together with the Minister for Food, wants 200 out of 700 jobs in the name of nature, wants a new government. That is why I find that members of the Folketing such as Bjarne Laustsen and Pernille Vigsø Bagge have also, within the last few weeks, distanced themselves from the roll-out and over-implementation of the Minister for the Environment, and that is why many of the mayors of the Social Democratic Party do so too. The question is: What does the blue block want? Will the Minister confirm that, for example, if you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you will have the right to vote in local elections? was more focused on creating more pristine forest, could it actually achieve higher biodiversity than the concrete proposal that lies here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105108	Well, that's where we're gonna go far enough, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Daniel Rugholm. Well, if we're also going to discuss Læsø and all the other things being raised here, then I think it's going to be a really, really long debate. But the claims made in relation to Læsø also have no real hold in reality, like a number of the other things, Mr. Daniel Rugholm says. In relation to the issue of untouched forest, I have noticed that there are some people in the debate who have said whether we could not just replace this section 3 ban with a whole lot of untouched forest. I just have to point out that the biodiversity present in the forests is quite different from that found in our section 3 protected natural areas, and therefore one cannot replace one with the other. We have also addressed the need to create better conditions for biodiversity in the forests in the Nature Plan Denmark. We've done that with 50 million. kr. in Nature Plan Denmark, so I fully acknowledge that there is also a need for effort in the forests, and it is also in Nature Plan Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105205	Sir. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105207	That was my point: to confirm the Minister's very gross generalisations that because you do not support this proposal, you do not want nature to want nature. That is also why we are proposing, for example, that we should: Looking at more pristine forest. That is also why we support good initiatives such as this. The Danish Nature Fund, and that is also why we reach out to the Minister and say: Let us look at the seabed in the Sound and do something about it. I think we have a lot of things to do; unfortunately, the Minister is not always on board. But I think it is a very gross generalisation which is damaging the debate and which only leads to politicians. I would urge the Minister to consider this, even in view of the fact that you actually have a task of bringing together the parties of the Folketing to do something good for nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105244	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105246	That's right. After all, we have brought together the Danish Parliament on a number of initiatives, including in relation to the agricultural industry. We were together on the Danish Nature Fund, and I am actually glad that Mr. Daniel Rugholm is coming in here because the Conservatives have not been so prominent in the debate during the course of the discussion on this bill. It can be regretted that the Conservatives, as at least the previous Green Voice in the Blue Block, do not choose to say that we are in fact going to support the improvement in the nature of this proposal. I'm sorry about that. I think it would have dressed the Conservative People's Party to be the green party in the blue block by supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105326	Sir. Steen Gade for a brief comment. Steen Gade No). Sir. Steen Gade apostates. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105334	First of all, it is surprising that the Minister says that if a farmer is particularly badly affected, either financial compensation or exemption can be granted. In other words, if the nature that the Minister for the Environment wants to protect is concentrated so that it affects a single farmer disproportionately, one can dispense with the rules and then the environment was not so important. But if the same area were spread out on several farms, it would not be possible to do so. It's just to point out how strange it is. So what makes me speak is when the Minister says that you can apply for either exemption or financial compensation if you are particularly hard hit. And so a great deal of time has been spent trying to find out when it is that you are particularly hard hit. I cannot understand why the Minister says that it must be based on a concrete assessment. In other words, it must then be the courts that have to assess when you are particularly hard hit. Why will the Minister not take political responsibility and say: if you are affected either by your earnings or by your values above 10%, 20%, 50%, you are particularly affected? Why will the Minister not take political responsibility and define when this, in the Minister's own words, hits particularly hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105444	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105445	Well, we have consulted the DA on that issue and on that basis it will be on the basis of a concrete assessment that the application will be assessed. We have the verdict of the DA that this can be implemented as a general, non-replaceable regulation, but with the exception that a derogation or compensation can be applied for if it is a case of being particularly hard hit. However, we have not been able to set out any criteria in advance as to when it is, because there are so many conditions that will prevail in such a concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105517	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105518	But I just think it is running out of political responsibility that you will not say clearly that if this hits profits or values by a certain percentage, the state must go in and compensate for it. And then it is evidently a result of how the individual lands are distributed between different farms. That doesn't make much sense. And I think it's too easy for the minister just to say that the DA has made an assessment. What does the Minister think is reasonable? How much must the individual farmer suffer as a percentage of his earnings or values? What does the Minister think is politically reasonable to implement without it triggering compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105601	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105604	Well, I think it is a good and reasonable proposal that we are making here. I think it is a good thing that this proposal will bring about a real improvement in our nature. And I also think that we have set up a framework for the § 3 ban, which gives you good opportunities to adapt your production out there. There are three growing seasons as a transitional period and we are making this possibility of derogation or compensation for those who are particularly affected. And, as I have said, we have consulted the DA, and on this basis we have concluded that we cannot set a percentage limit in advance, but that it will be based on a concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105639	The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105643	I did not expect to take the floor in this debate, but I was somewhat shaken by the lack of empathy of the government in relation to a totally debilitating profession. Now I do not know whether a government can have empathy, but at least on behalf of the government, the Minister does not have empathy for a profession that lies down. It is, of course, a question of putting an additional burden on a profession that is lying down. That is quite, quite unacceptable and quite unreasonable. It is also the case that the individual farmer's ability to dispose of his land is restricted. That, too, is totally unacceptable. Can the Minister not at all see and understand that there is a problem here and that it is important for the individual farmer when you come and say: you can just apply for compensation etc. You have the right to seek, but you have no right to have. Can't the Minister see that this is a big, big problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105740	As I have repeated several times today, and I am happy to do so again: I recognise that this proposal can have major consequences for some farmers who are particularly badly affected. We have put forward openly and honestly in this legislative process what the economic consequences of this proposal are. But to claim, as several of the Members of the Left have done today, that it should cancel, delete, withdraw the proposals that the government has made and that the conditions of growth that we have created for Danish agriculture should then be cancelled is therefore completely out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105816	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105818	But when the Minister recognizes that there is a situation here that is not very fortunate and favourable, why would the Minister not say: well, but then we will have to wait to bring it here? That would be a very sensible thing to do. After all, it is a provocation, without just sweeping it aside, by saying that some officials may then be allowed to decide whether the farmer in question can have a derogation or receive compensation. That is quite unfair to the individual farmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105850	Well, I would like to repeat this: I recognise that it can have major consequences for individual farmers who are particularly affected, and that is why there is this opportunity. But I would again appeal to the Left to try to put this in the right proportions. I mean, it's about 1.5%. This proposal and not 10% of the total agricultural land in Denmark are affected by this proposal, as Mrs Anni Matthiesen was told in her speech at second reading. It is therefore a small area compared with the total agricultural production in Denmark that is being affected. For individual farmers who are severely affected, there will be the possibility of obtaining a derogation or compensation on the basis of a concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105925	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219105935	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken now. That concludes the vote. In favour 56 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 51 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110024	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110039	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 101 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110109	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110126	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 68 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 37 (V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110210	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110220	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 96 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 11 (EL, 2 SF (by mistake) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110301	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110317	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 51 votes (V, DF, LA and KF), 55 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)). The motion for a resolution has been rejected. We're gonna take a little break. Then I think we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110455	The debate is open. Sir. Kim Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219110511	Thank you. This proposal from the Minister for Business and Growth is, after all, a change to the Financial Statements Act and a number of other laws. It is a desire to implement the EU Accounting Directive, and it is also an attempt by the government to meet some reductions in the burden on companies in the preparation of accounts, while taking account of the needs of accountants for the necessary information, and at the same time adapting legislation to the developments in accounting from an international perspective. So far, so good. The substance of the proposal is that in future micro-enterprises should provide less information in their accounts; subsidiaries will be able to provide less information in their annual accounts if a number of obligations are met; there will be a partial lifting of the requirement for management certification; and small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to meet fewer accounting requirements. As far, as good as I said. We in the Left welcome the relief and real relief of administrative burdens when there is substance in it when there are savings and efficiency improvements for businesses. However, we must be sure that it is also real relief and savings that it is not a blow in the air that we will not, at a later stage in the second stage, require the same information to different authorities, which would be included in accounts, for example. We must be sure that we are not thinking here short-sightedly, but have a look at the whole and a long-term perspective, including for the individual company. I would like to remind you that, in my view, it is not the case that an accounting bill is necessarily an expense for a company, let alone an unnecessary expense for a company. A good accountant is a useful and important tool for an owner or manager of a company, including a small business, in order to make sensible arrangements and also in order to obtain credit from a financial institution in order to make contracts with trading partners. This is where we have to think long-term. We recognise that there are obligations in relation to the EU Accounting Directive with its implementation. On the other hand, the demands for reporting on social responsibility, CSR, to the 50 largest companies and public limited companies and the 1,100 largest companies, which have to deal with environmental, climate and employee-related issues, are perhaps something that could deserve to be clarified a little further, so that this will not just be something extra, extra on top of what companies already do and report. And how, moreover, has this been implemented in relation to the Accounting Directive? Is it completely strict? We are in favour of an international development in relation to European accounting standards, and it may be appropriate to look at some of the proposals contained in the Minister's L 117. We will, of course, be constructive in committee on the proposal, but I must already announce that I have a number of questions to answer and should like to be answered positively. They will, of course, be submitted to the Minister for Industry. I also think that this is a legislative proposal which has a complexity and scope and an impact on many companies and with many consequences, so it is a matter that deserves to be dealt with very carefully. We get a lot of inquiries about the bill from outside, from organisations and companies. Many people are asking questions and raising danger signals, so I think it was reasonable that we in the Danish Parliament should carry out a consultation of the bill. I have good experience with hearings. They are helping to clarify the matter thoroughly, to separate the cliff from the wheat and to have the various experts and stakeholders put before each other and to put forward their arguments and the calculation board, so I would suggest that we conduct a hearing. I also hope that the Minister for Industry will be positive about a proposal and participate in such consultation and provide capacity from his ministry. I think that this could be very good for the legislative process in this matter, and that would be something that we in the Left attach importance to. If, moreover, it is possible, we will of course be constructive in further work on the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111046	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111050	In fact, I agree with quite a few of Mr. Kim Andersen's comments on the draft law, including paying attention to the critical objections that have come from both the financial sector and the audit organisations. Nor do I think that it should be seen as a burden only to have accounting and auditing requirements, but as an aid to the companies that are, not only to help society, but also to develop the company in question. I totally agree. I do not think I heard what the Left thinks about the second part of the bill, namely increased demands for reporting on its responsibility to society and on how to meet the objectives of strengthening green environmental development, which, in my view, is perhaps the most important part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111147	I very much agree with Frank Aaen that an accountant's bill should not be seen as an unnecessary cost, not necessarily, at least, but rather as an investment in the company's business management and development. That is a good starting point and a sensible point of view. At least we can agree on that. Otherwise, I find it instinctive that I get a little worried when Enhedslisten becomes too positive about what I say, but as long as it's at this level, we can probably manage it home. I think I got an indication of what we think of the CSR part. There are, of course, some things that all these companies already live up to. There are also some things that are being described voluntarily and according to the current legislation in the annual accounts, and that is why we must be careful that we do not just lean on bureaucracy to make it look like something if the real content is otherwise fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111246	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111249	I am thinking in particular of the passage in the legislative proposal that large companies extracting oil, gas and minerals and engaged in the logging of primary forests should provide information on what they, for example, are doing. payments to the authorities in the countries concerned. Because it is a huge problem that large companies sometimes pay, if I may say so, rather than be allowed to carry out activities which are deeply harmful to the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111319	Now I hope that we can, in agreement, carry out a substantive and serious consultation of the entire legislative proposal and all its aspects, but I do not believe that the element mentioned here by Frank Aaen is one of those that, for our part, will cause the most immediate problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111336	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111345	Thank you. Today we are discussing Bill No. L 117, which deals with the Financial Statements Act. The aim of the draft law is to reduce the administrative burden on businesses in the preparation of accounts, while taking account of the needs of users of accounts for essential information. At the same time, the bill adapts Danish legislation to international developments in accounting. The draft law is, on the one hand, an implementation of the EU's new accounting directive and, on the other, a follow-up to the good proposals made by the government's Corporate Forum for simpler rules. A company's financial statements have two objectives: firstly, to show how the company's funds have been used and, secondly, to show what the company's finances look like. A company's audited financial statements are the most reliable source of information on the company. Therefore, especially private investors, banks, stock analysts and professional investors make good use of the financial statements. However, the requirements for annual accounts have become more complex in recent years, and this is particularly a nuisance for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are faced with demands for their accounts, which do not match the needs of the users of these companies. It is important that we in the legislation both facilitate the workload of companies and at the same time ensure transparency in Danish business. Recently Forbes Magazine appointed Denmark to be one of the best countries in the world to operate in, and we are among others. Thus, parts of the bill have been created following recommendations from the Government Enterprise Forum for simpler rules, and this is a forum that the government set up in 2012 precisely to hear from the companies themselves, where there is a need for simplification of the rules. With the concrete changes in the legislative proposal, they mean that up to 80 000 smaller companies now have to provide less note information than in the past, and the size limit for small and medium-sized enterprises is increased, so that fewer companies fall within the heavier categories of reporting requirements. In addition, the proposal also has a green and a social profile, as it requires the 1,100 largest companies to deal with environmental and employee-related issues. And with the bill, we can expect economic savings of about 300 million. kr. The government has made it a matter of priority to listen to companies' wishes about how to optimize business conditions in Denmark, and we have found a balanced model where we have also listened to the Corporate Forum for simpler rules. With the bill, we make life easier for a large part of Danish companies, while ensuring that there is no significant loss of relevant accounting information. Overall, the Socialists can of course support the proposal. However, I have also listened to the rapporteur of the Left here today, and I have also spoken to other rapporteurs here in the Danish Parliament during the day, and I understand that there is a need for a clarification of several parts and elements of the proposal. I am basically in favour of us in this Parliament making legislation on an enlightened basis, so I will of course support the fact that we in the committee are having a good discussion on a programme of constructive consultation, so that all parties and all rapporteurs can participate, and so that we can come to the Parliamentary Chamber for a second and third reading, where the parties can take a position on the bill on the basis that they have been informed. So we have a constructive approach to cooperation on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111722	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219111732	Thank you. In connection with the legislative proposal that we are debating, among other things, there is the question of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in local elections. The Social Democrats' rapporteur explained what it really is for some elements of it, and it is clear that in the relatively short time available it is not possible to tell about all the elements of the overall legislative proposal. It contains many different facets. Part of the implementation is so-called mandatory changes from the EU's new accounting directive, and then there are also a number of changes, such as: introduce some relaxations in relation to the new Accounting Directive. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we are also in favour of these relaxations, which are being proposed specifically and not least with regard to the 80,000 so-called micro-enterprises we have in Denmark, who are those who, like the smallest companies, of course, sometimes feel that it is a sort of overbureaucratic measure that we have to implement, for example, these types of accounting practices. So, of course, where there is common sense in this, we are also prepared to give this relaxation. We have a criticism and, of course, a concern about the basic elements of the European Union's accounting directive, and it is about the so-called mandatory new measures that are there. This is, for example, about what the Social Democrats' rapporteur also mentioned, namely that it is planned that the 50 largest listed companies and state companies will report on environmental and employee-related issues as early as 2016 and they will also report on CSR in terms of social responsibility. And this is something that will also apply 2 years later, with effect from 2018, to the approximately 1,100 companies, which are the largest companies measured in the way you are now doing it and which will then also be subject to the new accounting regulations. We believe that there are grounds for examining the work of the committee as to whether all this is necessary. Especially around CSR there are some places where we think that you might go too far in relation to these rules that you want to impose on companies in their accounting policies. In particular, in relation to the directive on the part relating to the CSR part, the consultation answers from among others are clearly stated. Danish Industry and Danish Businesses and others, that it is a problem to overimplement more than what it says as a minimum implementation. It is true that, as the Minister's reply says, there are companies in the so-called accounting class D. These are the companies that are actually covered by it, but they then choose to implement further, so that even more companies come under these regulations. We are not entirely in favour of this. In fact, we believe that this may be a place where unnecessary over-implementation is needed. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is quite fine that we get some places where you can get an administrative relief. We have also noted that, in relation to the AMVAB calculations, it is expected that there will be a return to businesses of around 300 million. kr. in operating savings, because in some places they will then choose not to have the extended accounting policies done and thus get a smaller audit cost of their annual accounts. But we also think in the Danish People's Party that it is important in this context to secure and check whether there are types of smaller companies in Denmark • companies that either run with cvr-nr. etc. as single-member undertakings or undertakings operating with a CPR number; with own private cpr-no. as a record of which, with this total piece of legislation, there will be an increase in accounting burdens. I also think, of course, that, in the interests of safety, we should have checked whether there is anyone who, because of this bill, is going to get a bigger bill instead of what they had been promised, namely simplification. However, we are, of course, involved in the cooperation of the Committee on Industry on this draft law, and we certainly have no objection to a hearing where we politicians in the committee have the opportunity to ask some additional questions, including more technical and fundamental questions, and of course get answers back where we get the minister and the people who are specialists in the field to get involved in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219112231	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Ida Auken as SF rapporteur. No, not anymore. Mrs Ida Auken as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219112243	Thank you, sir. President. That's the second time. It's been a year. All right, peace be with it, it's one of the realities that you have to take care of when you stand up here. Today we are dealing with L 117, which is the annual accounts law, and at the same time we are adapting to the EU accounting directive. Of course, the consideration behind the way we have chosen to implement the directive and the way we have organised the law is, on the one hand, to ensure that we have a burden relief for companies, and, on the other hand, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned micro-enterprises, i.e. the very many small companies that will be greatly relieved, but there are indeed reliefs for companies all around, while on the other hand we ensure that account users can still get away from the information they need. For Radicals, it is also very important that the entire CSR part, that is, what concerns corporate social responsibility, is included in this proposal. It's not just for society's sake. In fact, it is also for the sake of companies. It is incredibly wise for a large company to manage its employee relationships, it is wise for them to manage social conditions and manage environmental conditions simply because you get a better and stronger company. One is less exposed to criticism that can kill large companies in the course of zero point five. In this age of the Internet, we know that if you do not behave properly, you can very, very quickly get very big problems. But it is also a good way of thinking about the fact that there are actually some competitive advantages in relation to similar companies by being better in some of these conditions. We know that Denmark, when we compete with companies from other countries, simply needs to be better. We have to compete on quality. I also heard a contractor at the entrepreneurship conference of the Liberal Alliance say that quite clearly. It is clear that Danish companies cannot compete on price alone; they must also be better. So being better in social and environmental conditions is actually something that can give us better companies in Denmark. That is one of the reasons why the Radical Left thinks it is quite right to go this way. I think there has been a sensible discussion of the proposal so far. We would, of course, like to discuss this in depth during the work of the committee. It is true what the rapporteur of the Left said, namely that it is a technically complex legislative proposal and there has been debate. We have made this proposal on the basis of among others. We want a lot of companies to do so, but we are happy to listen and discuss the criticism that has also rightly been made of the proposal. So, immediately, I really think that the proposal for a consultation is a very good idea. I think it is important that the parliamentary committee goes a long way into these issues, not least in such a comprehensive proposal as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219112527	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219112534	Thank you. If we look first at the implementation of the EU Accounting Directive, including the provisions on reporting social responsibility, the SF believes that there is a great deal here that looks very good. I agree with the previous rapporteur, the rapporteur on the Radical Left, that this kind of thing actually affects the bottom line of companies. The questions we are going to ask are, among other things, acting. to ensure full and early implementation of commitments and also that we should look at the balance that needs to be struck when we come to abolish green accountability. Is it fully covered in the new system that we are implementing here in the implementation of the EU Accounting Directive? There is, I think, a major and significant step forward on this point. It is, of course, the task of reporting on companies working with raw materials. It is oil, gas and minerals, but it is mainly forest, and it is something where we have Danish companies that have been quite large on that point. They have to report what the countries they operate in get out of it. This reflects a long, long discussion that a number of raw material-producing countries often do not really benefit from the supply of raw materials. They are simply the proceeds of using a word that I believe is basically right. You now have to report to the public how to handle it. The countries where forest is felled benefit from it, so that we can also have a public discussion about the behaviour of the companies, not only in Denmark, but in other countries too. The second part, which deals with the easing of administrative burdens on businesses, is of course a little complicated at times. I did not take the proposal for simplification up on the platform, because one sometimes wonders as a politician, if one has to be a little primitive, that a proposal to simplify is so thick and so heavy to carry on the platform, but that is the way it is. A number of simplifications have been proposed, and I feel that there is no doubt that on some of these points we have probably shot grey sparrows with guns. That is one part of it, and that is an argument for finding some relief, and the other part is that revision is not fundamentally a burden, but a help. It's kind of the two things that I think we have to balance against each other here. We will look at the more concrete proposals that lie ahead. Have we ensured with what is said about subsidiaries that we have the information we want about subsidiaries? I also sometimes have some doubts about that, with the abolition of the requirement for management approval. I know, of course, that management's endorsement is a pressure on the companies to take the audit seriously. I know there is partial cancellation, but now I have just announced some of the things that we will be looking at. Finally, I would just like to say that this is part of an economic agreement to find some relief for the private sector by 2020. That's 2 billion. kr., and also SF is included in the agreement. So this deal is meant to give 300 of those millions. We are fundamentally in favour of committee work and I have announced some of the things we will focus on along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113002	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113005	I really agree with most of it, sir. Steen Gade told me. It's just that when we get to how to report in relation to activities in e.g. It is quite obvious that the organizations involved in this area wanted us to go further than what has been proposed. They wanted what is called country-by-country reporting. I assume the SF still supports this, that is to say that we should have land-by-country reporting. It is, of course, rejected by the Minister in the hearings, but I think that this is perhaps the most important thing, so that, if I may say so, it is not just about how to pay a government it is fine but also includes tax payments or typically a lack of tax payments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113056	I can only give full backing, because that is definitely our principle view, that is to say that such a report should be made. I have just noted here that for the first time we are actually getting this theme in, and I am basically happy about that. I hope that we can agree to take the steps that Mr. Frank Aaen mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113120	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113136	Thank you. I would like to say straight away that this bill is, of course, made up of two things that may not have much to do with each other, other than that they have something to do with the financial statements. It should be understood in this way that there is a lot of relaxation of the requirements for what types of companies and what size companies and what kind of information should be provided in the financial statements in general, and then, of course, there is a section that we very much welcome on how to strengthen the duty of companies to disclose their social responsibility, their environmental responsibility, their responsibilities in relation to developing countries in which they operate. However, I think they are so different, and we at least take the view that they consist of easing the requirements for annual accounts, and we are against that. And we are certainly in favour of Part Two. We are, of course, going into the consultation that has been proposed. I think that is very good so that we can get to the bottom of the part of the annual accounting rule that has to do, if I may say so, the accounts and audits etc. However, we would like to see it split up, as I have said, so that we have an independent discussion of the part relating to corporate social responsibility and how they explain it, and then there is the second part about how they can better escape the accounting obligation. It has to be said that it is interesting that both the Finance Council, with which we do not always agree, may I say that I and the Association of Danish Accountants are critical of the part called relaxations. It doesn't just concern small businesses and very small businesses, but it actually concerns companies. I haven't just calculated what may have an annual turnover of 100 million. kr., that is, in a Danish context, there are not exactly small companies. I think that we should be very careful whether it is a good idea to relax the accounting rules, i.e. the requirement for audits, the requirement for information to be included in the accounts. We are very critical of this. So that's one part. And if we cannot get deeper into it in a satisfactory way, we would like to vote against that part. As far as the green and social responsibility issue is concerned, what lies in the legislative proposal is, in any case, a step forward, and we will of course support that, without a doubt. That is why we also want to be allowed to vote in favour of it, even if we are against the second part. We would also like to see whether we can go further than what has been proposed. We are also asked whether it is the case that in the directive we are, unfortunately, bound by a lot of EU rules here too, that we can make more demands on companies than what has been proposed. I think you can do that, and I think it would be a very good idea to go in that direction. After all, proposals have been put forward by a large number of NGOs working in this area, but in fact also from large Danish companies that are involved in some of these collaborations, that we need to tighten the requirements with regard to the CSR commitment and the way it is reported. Can we carry out country-by-country reporting of accounts so that we can see it more in detail? As far as Denmark is concerned, it can be done. So, in Denmark we can see how much companies actually pay in tax. It is a huge step forward compared to a few years ago, when large companies could claim that they paid billions and billions in taxes, and then it turned out that it was just not in Denmark. It was all sorts of other places. That is why we have made a great deal of progress in this area with regard to Denmark, but we would like to extend that to those countries which may be most cheated, namely the developing countries. Because they're probably so cheated on taxes, yes, we know they're doing that because the big companies are transporting things elsewhere, so that in many cases no tax is ever paid because they just get past a tax haven or two along the way. The developing countries are left without a penny in taxes on profits created in the country concerned. We would very much like to go much further on this. There is also a proposal from the various NGOs that we should at least also make demands on the places where Danish government organisations support companies operating in, for example. the developing countries. It may be the Export Credit Fund, and it may be the Investment Fund for the Developing Countries I should just find it out where, like there, we can say that the companies operating with this type of support must at least go further in their reporting of social responsibility and how they behave in developing countries. So we believe there is room for improvement, but of course we are in favour of the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113653	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113656	I just want to ask, as Enhedslisten is happy with the part about the implementation of CSR, but more sceptical, as I understood it, about the part about administrative reliefs and the annual accounts law: if it was possible to share this bill, would it be something that Enhedslisten was involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113721	I actually think I suggested that just now, so of course we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113724	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113726	That sounds good. At least we can back that up. That's all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113731	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113750	This bill has three objectives: reducing administrative burdens, implementing the EU Accounting Directive and international adaptation of the Accounting Act. It is very good that the government is focusing on reducing administrative burdens for businesses. We can warmly support that. It is estimated that this bill will ease administrative burdens on business for 300 million. kr. The consultations give some indication that you might be a little skeptical about this figure, i.e. whether it might be birds on the roof, but at least the intention is good, and we are happy about that part too. On the other hand, an over-implementation of the EU directive on CSR regulation is being proposed. On the other hand, we are very sceptical about this; on the whole, we are sceptical about over-implementing EU directives, and it is usually a scepticism we share with our bourgeois friends. So we also think it would be a good idea if this bill were to be divided. We hope the government will be positive about this. And if that is possible, the government can at least count on our support for the part that is about reducing administrative burdens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113927	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219113938	The Conservative People's Party is always for debureaucratisation, always for it to be easier to operate in Denmark. We have a quite sensible system in Denmark, and it is true, as the Socialist rapporteur said, that it is easy to set up a company in Denmark and also easy to be a company in Denmark. But we still hear away from almost all Danish companies when you are out talking to them and asking what will do, that they can develop more, that they can innovate more, that they can invest more, that then you have to remove some of the bureaucracy. It is therefore also a pity that the government has removed the targets set by the previous government for how much bureaucracy we should remove, as well as for pushing through that it should be easier to be a business. If we then support de-bureaucratisation, we will of course only do so if it is a real de-bureaucratisation. If you go in and look at the government's proposals here, we of course support the implementation of the EU Accounting Directive, but we do not support the part of what is over-implementing and which, if you talk to business, may at worst mean that it is becoming more difficult to be a business. If you remove and water down the financial statements so much that you cannot have a dialogue with the banks that you cannot have a dialogue with your trading partners, then that would be a challenge, and then you might make life harder and more difficult for small businesses, for which we would do something good. So my first conclusion must therefore be that we think it is a very good idea if there can be a consultation in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy as soon as possible in order to clarify the consequences of the proposal here. Because we fully agree with the intention that it should be easier to be SMEs in Denmark; it should be easier both to set up and run small businesses. However, when we look at the reactions that have taken place, it seems that too much of the entire SME segment may be more difficult to operate. It will be more difficult to establish partnerships; it will be more difficult to obtain funding for the development of the company if you do not have a solid and valid financial statements to be able to argue and negotiate with. Therefore, our response here is immediately sceptical, but we would like to discuss it with the government. And we call on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy to find a hearing on this matter so that we can clarify the consequences of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219114210	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219114223	I should like to thank all the rapporteurs for a constructive approach to the draft law, I think. It is, of course, part of the draft law or, for the majority of the draft law, I should say that we are not on an ideological errand here, but rather a practical errand: to look at whether there are opportunities for us to ease the administrative burdens in the business world without causing damage to the very same business community or society. That is what has been wanted and adopted at EU level: an accounting directive which we will then translate into Danish legislation. Let me put it this way: the intention is not to impair the ability of some companies to act. It is not, and it is certainly not the intention of the government to open up any tax gaps, speculation or anything else. So there is general support for us to hold a hearing in which we go through it quite meticulously so that everyone involved has the opportunity to ask all the right questions. I think that would be good and revealing to all of us. Because this is, of course, a complicated area. Just for inspiration I can say that I have been informed that if you try to estimate how many of the companies do not have bank financing and do not have debts to banks or mortgage institutions or credit institutions, it is perhaps about 60%. And if it's 60%. If the companies do not have this type of obligation, then is it like it makes sense to implement such a proposal here, because why on earth do a very thorough review or set out a wide range of matters that will never be needed anyway? And that's the way to think about it. But all of this can be solved and solved very, very thoroughly in the context of a hearing. Because it should not be the case that the government stands in the way of companies in any way whatsoever, as has been said in some of the hearings, namely that we should do worse in the way we do it. So that's not the intention here. On the other hand, of course, it should not be the case that because we have an industry that benefits from it and that is good, I fully agree with the description that a well-audited accounting is an important tool for every company and investor and others, you insist, in order to protect your own bread and profession, that there must remain a very comprehensive audit obligation if you do not need it just because you live on it. In other words, the main concern here must be for the individual companies. And I hope that a majority in the Folketing will be involved in thinking this way. We will, of course, answer all questions positively and hold a hearing. This also applies to the second part of it, where I understand that there is some scepticism, namely in relation to CSR and implementing it under Danish conditions. I would say that over 90%. of the companies we are talking about here already have CSR. So this is something that Danish companies are very much living up to. And I really think that this is a quite good example of a place where the European Union makes a lot of sense and use, namely that we are slowly, but surely, driven all companies in Europe of a certain size to provide CSR information and information that is vital, including on issues such as corruption, deforestation, significant environmental issues and other issues. Then I understand that there are some who are anxious that things should go faster. And there are some who believe that it will be a very, very great burden to do so now. I can see that there is. I actually think we have been very reasonable, and I can at least say that in the case of the burden side, it is very, very minimal what it will give of burdens for individual companies to carry out these things. And I really think that this world will be a better world if we get some of the facts that many of the rapporteurs have also mentioned. As I said, I hope that this is the general answer to all the rapporteurs in relation to the debate that has taken place. I understand that the work will be constructive, and we will also look constructively at the further process in relation to the specific content of the proposal and possible division when we have come this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219114728	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219114755	The debate is open. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219114809	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for the birthday present here on my 50th anniversary, it is nice to be allowed to be rapporteur on such a very good bill as what we are going to be discussing today, and also, by the way, thank you for a good and trusting cooperation in the ministry when we were going to get the agreement on the bill in place. In short, the legislative proposal is about making it easier, cheaper and quicker for consumers to complain about goods that they have bought from traders, and the proposal, in its simplicity, is that the complaint procedure in the public complaint system should in future be divided into two stages. The division of proceedings into two stages will help to speed up and more flexible handling of consumer complaints. In future, consumer complaints will only be dealt with in a mediation phase where the consumer pays DKK 100. and then you get help from the Competition and Consumer Authority to find a solution that the parties can accept, and I must say that I said a mediation phase and not a mediation phase, because that is quite another thing. If it does not succeed, then the consumer can choose to move on to the second stage of the Consumer Complaints Board, where there is a proper handling of the complaint. It will then cost the consumer a fee of DKK 400, but it is therefore an amount that will be repaid if a settlement is reached in favour of the consumer or if the consumer wins the case. The bill also contains a number of provisions to implement the EU directive on alternative dispute resolution in relation to consumer complaints. I am not going to go into detail, but I would just like to end my speech by saying that the Left is very much in favour of this modernisation of the public consumer complaints system, and that is why we helped to conclude the agreement with the government together with our friends in the Conservative People's Party. Left votes in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219115005	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Sina as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219115016	In Denmark, as consumers, we can feel safe when we act, because we know that should the accident be out and should we be cheated, we have a consumer complaint system that is ready to help us. As our consumption patterns evolve, it also makes new demands on the consumer complaints system, and that is why we are today discussing this bill to ensure that the Consumer Complaints Board will continue to assist, advise and protect consumers in the best possible way. The fact that consumer protection is at its top is crucial when we need to navigate around the modern consumer jungle. Net trade and cross-border trade have moved consumers further away from dealers, and this places new demands on our complaint system. That is why we are now carrying out a necessary modernisation of the system, a modernisation which first and foremost ensures that Danish consumers also have the opportunity in future to deal with their complaints quickly, efficiently and without the high costs. It contributes to the creation of confidence, and ultimately it benefits both consumers and traders. With this bill, we are implementing a directive that will ensure that consumers can complain about a product in an easy, quick and inexpensive way in future, whether it is bought in this country or elsewhere. This will make it easier to complain about foreign companies and it will improve consumer safety. At home, the directive means that in future the proceedings of the Consumer Complaints Board will be divided into two stages: a mediation phase and a proper board procedure. The mediation phase must help the consumer and the trader to come up with a solution together. It is common sense to try to resolve disputes through dialogue and to talk about a solution, if that is possible. This is good for all the parties involved, and it is particularly good for rapid clarification. If it is not possible to reach an agreement, the matter will be referred to the committee, as it is today. At the same time, the draft law means that the right of appeal in the Consumer Complaints Board will be extended by 45 industries. It is a great step forward for consumer legal certainty that you can now complain about virtually everything you buy. This will also mean that we will see an increase in the number of cases taken up, and therefore it is also necessary that we have a consumer complaint system that is geared towards dealing with and dealing with many more cases. The draft law amends the fees associated with the appeal procedure in the Consumer Complaints Board. The purpose of the amendment is to achieve a fair balance between the costs involved in handling a case before the Consumer Complaints Board and the costs to be paid by the losing party. We believe that the fees set are reasonable and affordable for both consumers and traders. Another element of the bill, which makes life a little easier for the consumer in the future, is the requirement that traders have an obligation to provide information. This means that traders must inform consumers easily and in an understandable language of their remedies. And I think that will mean a great deal to those consumers who otherwise find it difficult to find their way around rules and redress options. In short, with this bill, we will ensure the future of our consumer complaints system. We give consumers better and faster access to complaints to several industries, and the system is being modernised so that it can also continue to provide effective processing. We therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219115320	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219115333	It's always a little difficult to get there. 3 rapporteur, because all the explanations of what is really in the draft law have been standardized and formally told far and wide by both the Social Democrats and the Left. I can then welcome the fact that after the elections we may get a little further on the list; then there is progress to be traced, one might say. This bill is, of course, quite reasonable, given that it also helps to ensure that those who need and are reasonable to have a complaint dealt with can also get it forward-looking, part of the concern that has been with the Danish People's Party. After all, we are not part of the conciliation that was reached in November, and that has something to do with us, among other things. I have listened to the voices of consumers, consumers and consumers who have said that they actually believe that there are a whole range of things in it which are unfavorable to the consumer's legal position. We must, of course, have these things examined in such a reasonable manner in the committee's work that might be going on now after this. But basically, the Danish People's Party also thinks that it makes sense to strike a balance in the access that is available to it and also to ensure that employers or shops, the owners of the companies, can, of course, be fined. If they have violated some rules and have refused product liability or a guarantee commitment in some dispute, they must of course also be liable for it, but in relation to the legislation we have today, where there is a risk of up to DKr 13,600. plus the product itself in some dispute, it is of course associated with a great deal of uncertainty for perhaps very many small and smaller stores to go out at all in trying to claim their own right. That is why we have sometimes seen that, as a shop owner who sells a product, one may simply choose to lie down flat from the start, because one does not think that one has had a reasonable right of appeal as to how one should deal with one's part of the case. So there are some advantages to the bill that lies here. We really think that some of the challenges that have been faced are being tackled at length, and we can also see that far, by far, most of the consultation answers are actually positive about that. We also think that there should be a lower limit, and there we also think that the 1.000 DKK. is a reasonable value. Then I know you mention clothes and shoes, and it's obviously a little cheaper, 650 kr. For you can get a pair of good shoes, most people here in the Folketing believe. But we are part of the committee's work, and of course we also hope that we will find a solution so that the Danish People's Party can be part of those who vote yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219115625	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. If we are quick, we will also reach the radical rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219115633	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party finds it difficult to be no. 3 in the rapporteur's report on such a draft law. Then he should try to be number one. 4. Of course, I hope he tries that one day, that's clear. Today we are discussing the Consumer Complaints Act, where we are extending the right of appeal to 45 different areas further, so it is a balancing act: how do we ensure that complaints can be made in all these areas while at the same time providing citizens with rapid, cheap and effective means of redress? It is an agreement we have made with the Left and the Conservatives, and indeed, as I have said, it has been explained many times that we come with a new phase where you can first get mediation, where, if you have a dispute between the seller and the buyer, you can start with the Consumer Protection Agency to be guided and perhaps actually find each other there. Otherwise, you can go ahead and complain to the Consumer Complaints Board. It is also true that there will be a number of new charges, but we must remember that a case costs an average of about 10,000 kroner, and that it is therefore the whole of society that pays that bill, so there must also be some reasonableness in what you complain about. If you win your complaint, you get the money back, too. So we think that the cut is right on this, and I can also hear that there is generally good support for the balance we have found.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219115755	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Shall we take the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Steen Gade, right away?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219115810	I'd love to. There have been negotiations before the submission of this bill, in which the SF has also been involved. I should just like to say that I am sorry that we could not agree, because I think there is progress in this proposal, and I will explain them first. There is an extended area where you can actually have the opportunity to complain, so that it includes a large number of more products. Nor am I opposed to that division by two stages. I think it can be very sensible. Where our paths are divided is simply in the question of how expensive it will be to bring it up to the next level. It is our view that we have put ourselves at a far too expensive level. It has simply become too expensive to make the last complaint from the consumer side. There has also been a shift in the balance between consumers and companies, which here too does not seem entirely reasonable in our view, in the sense that it will be much cheaper for companies in some cases. These are cases that they lose • while, on the other hand, for consumers, if they run through it together, it will be more expensive. I think that the good thing about this is that we are doing a phase of mediation, in other words where we really want to have some more debate. In fact, I do not think this proposal is going to promote this idea itself. Perhaps you can look at this differently, but in my opinion what should be good about this proposal is not going to be as good as it might have been. So we intend to table amendments on the amount of money to be paid for the complaint. I understand, of course, that we will probably not get a majority in favour of this, but at least it will have to be tested. With this we will go to the work of the committee, which will clarify the issues that I have raised here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219120043	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Frank Aaen, starting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219130003	The sitting is resumed. We are in the process of the first reading of Bill No. L 118, and we have reached the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who is Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219130027	The danger of repeating what other rapporteurs have had to say here during the first part of the debate, where I was not present, must be taken along. After all, the draft law implements the ADR Directive or the ADR Directive, which was adopted during the Danish Presidency in May 2013. Unfortunately, the directive does not, in our opinion, have the same high level as the consumer complaints system that we know in Denmark today and that will deteriorate if this bill is adopted. The Enhedslisten cannot therefore support the bill as it reduces consumer redress. The proposal does not correspond to the insurance that we believe was given at the time when the ADR directive was adopted, namely that implementation could take place without any deterioration in the current consumer protection. The bill makes it considerably more expensive for consumers to complain if a complaint is lost. At the same time, the fees of shops and companies are being drastically reduced. In addition, the draft law introduces the so-called principle of mediation into the consumer complaint system. The Enhedslisten cannot support that it can now, overall, cost a consumer 500 DKK. to complain if you should lose the complaint. Today it costs 160 kroner. During the political negotiations, we proposed that the maximum amount be DKr 250.: a fee for mediation of DKK 100, which is not repaid, as well as a fee for bringing the matter before the Consumer Complaints Board of DKK 150, which is also not repaid if the case is lost, otherwise the amount will of course be paid back. We think that the amount of maximum. 250 kroner. In fact, a reasonable price index adjustment of the 160 DKK. Nor can we support the fact that in future companies and shops will have to get rid of a lot cheaper for consumer complaints. On the contrary, we believe that the current rates of charges for business enterprises should have been maintained, especially bearing in mind that one of the reasons for changing the consumer complaints system is that, with the implementation of the directive and with the extension of the many new business lines - 45 in total - an additional cost of 20-25 million has been calculated. kr., if it should be handled within the existing system. So it may seem rather odd to reduce the fees for the professions as much as the bill does. By the way, we do not quite believe in those calculations. In our view, a large number of the new areas covered by the legislative proposal under the public consumer complaints system will not throw away many complaints. I am referring to horse breeding, the purchase of yachts, art and gallery activities, the rental of boats and trucks, landscaping and marinas, fruit and vegetables, fish trade and butcher shops. Moreover, most products will fall below the de minimis threshold, so we do not think that there will be a great many complaints, for example. the areas. For other new areas which come under the consumer complaints system, there are, in some cases, significant overlaps with existing areas, for example. in the field of transport. Then we are not actually enthusiastic that mediating is now being introduced into the consumer complaints system. Mediation can be good enough if it is voluntary and used where people need to continue to associate with each other. It could, for example, be done. be in family matters where it is also used. However, this is a very, very specific matter of forced mediation, namely whether the television or the mixer or the computer that has just been bought out in Bilka is now working as it should. Adding to that that no expert statements can be obtained during the mediation phase to clarify whether there is anything wrong with the fucking device. I do not know if I can say that it is clear that consumers are behind on points at this stage. In advance, the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority has already settled 50 per cent. In this context, it should be noted that, in the present case, there is no need to introduce mediation into the consumer complaints system. We also believe that the real reason for introducing mediation is to save money by keeping as many people as possible from complaining to the Consumer Complaints Board. At the same time, it can be argued, by referring to the mediation part and the fee for this, that the preamble to the ADR or ADR Directive is being complied with, which states that it must be free of charge or only a symbolic amount to complain. We think that is equally clever and actually at the edge of the directive. That is also why, in the comments, the mediation is referred to as a central part of the implementation of the ADR directive. The Enhedslisten votes against the bill and intends to table a number of amendments. We are, of course, aware that this bill has been applauded between the government, the Left and the Conservatives, but nevertheless we will give Things a chance to improve a poor bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219130521	The rapporteur is quite right in saying that this must not be said. Then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219130530	Thank you. I'll see if I can talk nicely. After all, there is no way around it: we need to revise the existing legislation as a result of the EU directive, but when we review legislation, we must also be careful not to throw away anything that already actually works well. There are a number of things in the proposal that are excellent in this respect, but there are also aspects to which we in the Liberal Alliance are sceptical. With regard to the first part on forced mediation, it can in fact work, as some very good intentions are behind it. After all, we know that a great many of the complaints that are currently pending are already ending up in a settlement. But who's gonna do this meditation? What are the complaints we can imagine arising in the wake of that? How is this supposed to be done in practice? How many employees can we imagine working on these things? There have been some suggestions for this, but we can be skeptical about whether it is commandments that are going to keep in the real world. Secondly, we also have a scepticism as to how the conditions of the already established industry-specific appeal boards will be in the future. Of course, we want the legal position to be clear both to consumers and to business, but we are actually nervous that the already established appeal boards will have to close themselves down, perhaps for cost reasons. We also believe that the closure of the industry-specific appeal boards is not necessarily an advantage for the consumer and that there may be a distortion between complaints by the Consumer Appeal Board and the private appeal boards. Furthermore, we are also sceptical about the increased costs and financial burdens that will trigger compared with the operators. But we enter into the discussion with an open mind. We have to see what comes out of it in the end, but there are a number of points to which we, the Liberal Alliance, are sceptical.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219130741	Thank you. And then it's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219130746	There has been and there is a need for modernisation and a kind of debureaucratisation of the public consumer complaints system. The fact is that it has been too expensive and out of proportion for some traders and that it may have been at no cost to people just to lodge a random complaint without it having any consequences, because one could just as easily complain also in relation to relatively small amounts. Then there have been things in this process that we have not been satisfied with by the conservatives, for example. some of the costs imposed on industry by this bill. But all in all, this means that it will be a little cheaper for business. There are not just random complaints, because there is a limit on the amount of what you can complain about, and the fee for companies will also fall. So if you put it in a bowl of weight, it is going in the right direction, both for consumers, who have a modernised and more efficient and fast consumer complaints system, but also for companies that are not so burdened financially. So the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219130906	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219130916	I should like to begin by thanking a majority in the Danish Parliament for supporting this proposal. After all, we have had many and thorough negotiations on this area, which the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned. They have been constructive, I think, because the task was actually great. The sudden expansion of the number of areas where there will be the possibility of complaints from consumer teams is, of course, challenging the whole system. In this context, we have also had to observe that methods other than those we have been used to up until now are used to, the so-called mediators and something else from which we have chosen this time to be inspired, learned, and which we will use in relation to our future consumer area. And I think it is exciting and good that we have adopted this method because it is unbureaucratic and more straightforward, and I really hope that it will be very, very successful. I would like to thank you for your good and constructive contributions to the agreement from the Left, from the Conservatives and also from the Danish People's Party, which I also understood thought very positively to vote in favour of the proposal. Thanks also to the SF, which I understood was positive towards most elements, but not just the limits set, but nevertheless very positive and constructive in relation to it. Sir. Henning Hyllested was clearly the most negative of all on the platform, compared to what happened when the speech was given here, and he was in danger of perhaps repeating something others had said because he could not participate in the first part of the debate. However, I would like to say that I do not think that we can simply override the fact that the right of appeal is so much greater and that we therefore also have to deal with, of course, an expected increase in the number of complaints, through the fact that we are also adapting the system accordingly. Nor do I think it is fair to say that consumers are being put at a disadvantage. In fact, I believe that it would be a huge advantage for consumers to have the opportunity for a very quick and very flexible decision as a result of this mediation. It's 100 kroner, and it's a good idea for people. Then there are those cases where it is not possible, that is to say where you go into a dispute and have to move on to a jury procedure and other matters. There you can be allowed to pay another 400 kroner. in a fee that you'll get back if you're gonna win the case. I just want to say that we also need to introduce certain limits, so that people do not just complain because they can just do so. I would like to mention that it costs more than 10,000 kroner. On the average, to take a case today at the summit, and that is to impose enormous costs on all of us. Therefore, there must be some reasonableness in, I think, the government and a majority, that when you go on complaining, there must also be a good reason for this. In fact, I think that some very fair and reasonable limits have been set here, so that we ensure consumers, but also that we have the opportunity to manage the number of complaints that come in so that it does not become quite unreasonable. Then I understood from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur that, as such, we were not in favour of the proposal and were somewhat sceptical and also sceptical as to whether many of the estimates and other things we have given in response to this draft law were now valid and what extent it would take and how many would be recruited for something. That is, and remains, an estimate, and I would like to add that to the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance. Well, we don't know what practice is gonna be. After all, we can only judge and hope that it will end where we have established it. For what we have at least gone down very consistently is not creating some monster in the form of a new large bureaucratic round, in which everyone is complaining about everything, so that it is a great nuisance for companies and public finances in particular, but that we are doing so in a way that consumers have proper rights, as I said, but that there is still some degree of self-payment, so that we ensure that it is not just free to complain there. So we hope to have found the balance, but of course I can never issue any guarantee. And, of course, I will try to answer all questions constructively in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219131425	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219131428	The Minister for Business gives the impression that people are just complaining and that we really need to get our hands on that. That is not my impression, and I also think that it is actually being dealt with quite well in the existing complaint system, because 50 per cent of the settlements are actually being settled. of all things. I think that is a very good expression of the fact that it is actually under control. I'm not as sure as the Minister for Business that for people it's just about getting it through quickly and smoothly. Of course you want that, but I think most people are concerned about actually getting right whether they're right or not. 500 DKK, Minister of Business, is not much for us with parliamentary salary, ministerial salary etc., but it can be 10%. of an amount of 5,000 kroner on a television set. I think that is an important price increase to address if you want to complain about a device and then end up being wrong. So I do not think it is quite as trivial as I think the Minister of Industry is trying to make it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219131537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219131538	I think it should be said that, as a starting point for the consumer, it must be 100 kroner. It must cost DKK 100, and in such a mediation an employee would typically say to the complainant and to the company concerned: this case will in all likelihood end with the following decision. That is the starting point for it, and then, of course, if it is in principle, you can take the matter to the board or other, but the intention would be for the vast majority of the cases to stop there. In this way, the consumer has a fine, fine legal certainty, because one consumer has first had a case about the television set in question which apparently does not work, and indeed all the others can actually expect the same excellent treatment in relation to it. So that's what's gonna happen to the vast majority of people. And then there may be some matters of principle, and I do not have to make myself aware of how difficult any of this can be sometimes. However, I also think that the rapporteur should think about what it would be like if it were to be completely free of charge just to complain out there. It has to be said that it is a joke anyway, if suddenly it costs more than 10,000 kroner. I think that the risk of having to pay 400 kroner should not be justified, rather than having to ally with a lawyer, or whatever else you might do in order to get your case handled. So I think it is actually a rather generous and proper system that we are setting up here and which is very much protecting the consumer. Then there's the question of whether people are just complaining out there. No, they do not, but some do. And I'm not going to help finance those who just complain because they want to complain. I also think that there should be consistency and that there should be some meaning to it. And the fact that there is some self-payment helps to set a very, very healthy limit, I think, for how many people are complaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219131725	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219131726	Yes, but, Minister, the purpose of the directive is precisely that people, so-called ordinary people, should have a cheap remedy. The ADR directive, the preamble to the ADR directive, says directly that it must be free of charge or that there must be a symbolic payment in order to be able to complain. So I do not think the comparison with the fact that they were then referred to as having a lawyer is reasonable, because that is, in fact, the whole purpose of the directive to avoid it there. But otherwise I would really like to talk about something quite different, and that is that I would like to ask about the status. Because we actually have an outstanding issue here, and that is the question of parking charges. After all, when we dealt with L 54 in the previous session, on 29 January 2014, a reply was given to the Committee on Legal Affairs, and it was from the Ministry of Justice: if no private trade board has been set up in this area by the end of 2014, which meets the requirements of the ADR, the Ministry of Justice will take the initiative that, before the deadline for the implementation of the directive, there will otherwise be access to lodge complaints about charges for breach of the conditions of private parking in public parking spaces for a Board of Appeal meeting the requirements of the directive. There I would just like to hear what the status of this is, also because, if it is to come under the public consumer complaints system, it can really knock it all over. However, it can also be seen that it does not actually meet what was promised at the time, because the parking charges that are currently being granted for illegal parking are, after all, below the de minimis threshold contained in the legislative proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219131903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219131904	Thank you. I would like to say first of all that I do not in fact believe that it should be left unanswered that, by implementing the directive, as we do in Denmark, we are providing very, very cheap access for consumers to be able to complain. Because what we are counting on is that by far, the vast majority of all cases will now be settled in what we call the Mediation phase, and DKK 100. is cheap. It is therefore inexpensive to be allowed to complain, and we must also bear in mind that we are taking up a large number of people's working hours and other things that actually cost something. So this isn't the cost, it's far, far below cost. So it is then you can run it up further if you want a matter of principle. It costs more than 10,000 kroner today, and it may also go up to 20,000 or 30,000 kroner. Here you risk having to pay 400 kroner, which you then get back, you should be right. It's not expensive. It is generous and proper and a proper way of organizing it so that consumers are assured, I think. With regard to the question of how far the Ministry of Justice has come with this, I'm gonna be answerable right now. I am very, very happy to return to the issue, but I just think that the Ministry of Justice is very busy with all sorts of other things at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219132021	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate on this proposal has ended. I propose that it be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219132042	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Sophie Løhde, first of all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219132121	Thank you for that, President. It is quite true that it is a very diverse legislative proposal. So is the content. It consists of four parts, and one must at least have such a little creative imagination in order to see what they have to do with each other. It is always exciting to read the Minister's introductory remarks to a bill to find out what arguments one would use to make four things that do not fit together fit together. Anyway, okay, we can relate to each of them. It can be said that the first two are both concerned with clarifying the existing practice with a view to creating a clearer legal basis in the legislation; one relates to the delegation's competence to conclude an agreement during the extended free hospital elections, whereby the term "regional councils" is replaced by the term "Danske Regions." In practice, revolution, the President says; it is good to have such a side comment here; it will not make a big difference, since it is a question of clarifying already existing practices. The second part relates to the clarification of the health legislation's transport arrangements, which is also a clarification of the legal situation in this area. Finally, there's the third part of this bill, which is that the Danish Health Authority is authorised to lay down rules on the publication of the Health Authority's injunctions. The three elements, separately and together, we can support. This is the last part of the legislative proposal that we in the Left are somewhat more sceptical about. Here, the government proposes that the provisions of the legislation on the three institutions of the medical profession and the title of the doctor should be repealed, that the provisions of the legislation describing the medical institution's portfolio of tasks be amended and that the tasks be placed in a forward-looking place with the Danish Health Service. The proposal is part of the action plan that came back from the Danish Health Authority in June 2014 after what we must say was a number of highly problematic cases in the Danish Health Authority, where we have seen that supervision has completely failed. We have no doubt that there is a need for a number of changes, including radical ones, and we would very much like to take part in a political debate on the action plan and thus also discuss politically what kind of supervision we would like to have in the future. We have not been invited to or started this discussion with the Minister, which is why it seems somewhat backward and illogical to us that we should now sit and say yes to an element of the action plan which relates to the removal of the medical examiners. It may well be that it is a sensible proposal in terms of greater coherence and otherwise, but we cannot sit and nod to individual elements without having had the opportunity to discuss together what it is that we want politically, what changes are needed. In the comments to the bill, it is very well described how the Danish Health Authority is now going to start some new phases. There will be three stages, and the first stage must be the one we are in now with the legislative proposal, namely that we propose the closure of the medical institution. Then, in the second phase, a detailed mapping of resources and tasks in the area of supervision is started, as it is called. Finally, in the third phase, we are looking at how supervisory tasks are to be shared between the units. So, why is it that we cannot get started with some of the phases before we have to sit and help define what is to be the conclusion of the work that we have to assume, at least according to the comments that have to be initiated? So we're going to suggest that the minister either pulls this part out of the bill and postpones that part or alternatively invites the parties to some more detailed discussions where we can see these things in an overall whole in order also to be able to deal politically with how this is going to be concluded. As I said, it is not because we are necessarily sceptical about the proposal itself, but we cannot sit and nod to anything without at the same time having the opportunity to look forward, in relation to what it is that must come behind in relation to the supervisory activities of the management board. There is also the whole debate on the economy if more resources are to be provided. I know the government hasn't even set aside a single penny in its Finance Act to strengthen supervision. If we decide politically that we want to do this differently, then that money has to be found. Perhaps the Minister could tell us where the government is planning that money should come from. It might be interesting to have answers in this context too, and before we start the discussion. In fact, I have some doubts as to whether there is a majority in favour of this part of the bill in the Parliamentary Chamber today, so it may be that the Minister will be interested in listening to good proposals at least in this context. In any case, we would like to play a constructive role in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219132632	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, and we shall go straight to the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219132637	Thank you very much. After all, this bill is all about making some adjustments and some changes in order to ensure more clear and unambiguous possibilities for managing some of these things, both for the benefit of the citizens and for the general day-to-day running of health care by health institutions, municipalities and regions. It is true, as my good colleague Mrs Sophie Løhde from the Left says, that there are, like, four main themes in this area. There is the question of the conclusion of agreements with the regions, and there is the question of the transport system in relation to both municipalities and regions. The third is the publication of instructions, where the Danish Health Authority has been looking for some, and here the Danish Health Authority now has the opportunity to say that the institutions also have to make it visible on the platforms they may have as institutions. And then, as the fourth and last point, there is what Mrs Sophie Løhde also gave a lot of words on the way, and it is that of the medical institution which is actually continuing its three places, but where the title, the name, the official doctor must be abolished in order to give the Health Service an opportunity in some way to organise and carry out its regulatory tasks as appropriately as possible. The last part has been launched, also as mentioned earlier, after there have been incidents in relation to the Health Authority's supervisory part, which has attracted a great deal of attention from the health minister, from the public and the media, and where a coal excavation has also been carried out with the help of what is called EPSO, a European supervisory body, which has made some recommendations on what we should do in Denmark and, as the Ministry of Health, the Minister of Health has already done in cooperation with the Danish Health Authority. All of this is like thinking that it is a matter of improving the quality of supervision and helping to maintain and build a high level of trust on the part of society in our health services, in our health institutions, and thus also ensuring patient safety. There is hardly anything more important than patient safety when you talk about health and health in Denmark, and I think that creating more clarity and clarity also helps to ensure that balance. The Socialists support this complex of legislative changes in the four areas of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219132920	Thank you. And then we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219132925	I could, of course, list the same thing as the two previous rapporteurs, because there is not so much in the draft law that just comes to light. There are some clarifications. However, some of the things that go into the eye are probably the same as the rapporteur of the Left, and that is precisely the abolition of the term 'official doctors'. I shoved it over a little bit and thought, "Why is that, and what are we gonna call them?" After all, we are used to out in the municipalities, and where else it is that the medical examiners are being supervised, then we know what we are talking about and we know what we are dealing with. So I was wondering: is it better that we say that now it is the Health Authority that comes under supervision? Because it has to be when the name is abolished. As far as I am concerned, it is a little more hollow than the other. Unfortunately, we have seen over the past many years that supervision has failed. Then, of course, we can ask whether it is one or the other body that has been the basis for it. I hope that we will now come a little closer to one of the most recent cases in which we have seen that there has been no supervision of a psychiatrist. However, there have been many other cases on which I too have been rapporteur, and there have actually been some cases where officials, the medical examiners, have reported it, but where it is the Health Authority that has not gone in. So I have to say that confidence in the Danish Health Authority is weakened, and that is why I think, like the rapporteur from the Left, that it could be that we should take this point out and put it together with the whole process of what is going to happen with the Danish Health Authority and how we ensure that we have a supervision that is good for patient safety throughout the country, whether you live in Lolland or in North Jutland or in Copenhagen. The first thing I was thinking about when I saw it was this cutting a heel and cutting a toe, because I think the government has done that with the entire medical institution over the last few years. It has been closed, it has been closed down, it has been laid down in Copenhagen, so that all these jobs have gone away from our areas, which need these jobs and which are precisely what we are trying to focus on. And if we do it even more, what's it gonna end with? So I have an incredible number of questions and somewhere it would be a pity for the rest of the proposal that this is the problem in the proposal. So I will look forward to further discussion and then hope that we will get answers to many of the questions we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219133212	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the radical rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219133216	With this bill we specify in the Health Act that the regional councils can authorise Danske Regions to enter into agreements with private hospitals, clinics, etc. and hospitals abroad on the treatment of patients during the extended free choice of hospital, and it is also specified in the Health Act that municipalities have the possibility to provide transport to patients to their own doctor or to medical practitioners as an alternative to transport allowances. Furthermore, we are now introducing a legal requirement that public and private hospitals, which are required by the Danish Health Service to comply with health requirements, should publish these at the same time as the Danish Health Authority's publication. Finally, with this bill, we are abolishing the term 'official doctors'. The purpose of this is to clarify the tasks of the Danish Health Authority, including to clarify that the current three decentralised units of the Danish Agency, in line with other units within the Danish Agency, are part of the overall organisation and task management. The aim is also to ensure that the use of the term 'official doctors' or the like' in the legislation does not affect the ability of the Danish Health Service to organise the performance of its regulatory tasks as appropriate. Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219133341	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219133402	Thank you. As many of the other rapporteurs have already pointed out, this draft law consists of several parts. I do not want to talk about the parts where there is agreement, and that is the first three where we agree with the government. In relation to the last part on the abolition of the term 'official doctor', we have a concern about what it is we are opening up to whether it is only a question of the name being changed, because if it is without all sorts of other things, it could be very useful. As other rapporteurs have also mentioned before, the Danish Health Authority has received international criticism in a great many areas, and they themselves have submitted a report on how they can change some of the conditions. There have been a number of different cases, including: also in the press, where the National Health Service has so much failed has failed very, very large. That is why we are also discussing in the Health Committee what we are doing to ensure that the Health Authority is in fact an authority that is watching properly those who provide health care care so that people can be sure that the treatment can make them healthy and certainly not end up making them ill. Therefore, when we begin to open up to change the name of official doctors, I need to know what it means in concrete terms, what consequences it will have in relation to the Danish Health Authority, and how it also relates to the whole way we would like to look at the Danish Health Authority. After all, we have clearly stated from the SF that we want a reform of the Danish Health Service, because we believe that the way it works is not proper. We have also said that we are willing, if the Minister calls for negotiations, to look at how we can secure some economy for it, because many of these things need to be done better and speeded up, but that also requires that the Danish Health Authority get some funding. However, as I said, we are waiting for the last part, and that is why I am not going to say at this stage whether it will be one or the other, but the other parts we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219133624	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219133630	After all, a doctor works with life and death, and if a doctor can't figure out how to do his job properly, for example. If pills are handed out with too round a hand or hand out the wrong medication, then what else should be treated can prove fatal to patients • it can lead to damage, and it can also lead to loss of life prematurely. Unfortunately, these are some cases that we have seen in the health services, and it is in those cases where we need to have supervision, a health service, an official medical institution that must take action against doctors who cannot manage their office properly. And that is why these are really important and really serious things that we are discussing here today. I would also like to concentrate on the fourth part of the legislative proposal, because the other three we can easily support. Like several of the other rapporteurs, I wonder a little bit about the order in this context. As many of us have mentioned, we have a rather long process ahead of this bill: a number of scandals lead to the former Minister of Health setting up a coal excavation; an international committee of experts will come and review the Danish Health Authority, and the Danish Health Authority will then follow up this autumn with an action plan for what is to happen. That is really, really fine, and now the ball lies with us politically: what is going to happen? And this is the first step in the legislative process. But I have yet to see how this initiative works with what is going to happen. After all, there are a great many discussions that are still waiting for us, for example. the discussion on risk-based supervision in relation to routine supervision, and the discussion on what tasks should be decentralised to which tasks should be central. All these things are involved in relation to what it is you have to have out decentralized, that is, what it is that is going to be the coroner of the future, so to speak. And that's why I'm a little short on seeing this change of law in a context. I recognise that there is a need for some changes, I would say. I am not sure that we can just continue as we have done so far. Some of the comments made by the International Committee of Experts, which I have noticed, point out that this area, in other words the relationship between the fact that we have decentralized units and a central health service, works so badly that it is part of the cause of the problems we face. One of the points to be mentioned is that: in its Recommendations 14, 16 and 17, that there is a strong need to improve the communication taking place and also to clarify what the tasks are. But that's not what we solve here, where we just change the name. That is why I think it is important for us to see things together. Then I have a question. This can certainly be clarified in the committee process with a written reply. One of the discussions in the hearing answers is what it means to repeal the paragraph which today regulates the training requirements of the official doctors. Maybe it doesn't mean anything, that is, maybe the same requirement as it has been in the past, but it kind of disappears into the mist for me whether it has a meaning or not. But what is important to us is to have a guarantee that it is thought along with the other changes that we expect to happen in relation to the supervision of the Danish Health Authority and which we want to do in relation to the supervision of the Danish Health Authority. I think we can do that far along the way by meeting the parties to sit down and discuss it. Or maybe in that process we see the sense that this is the order in which we do it. But until then, we'd like to make a reservation about this fourth part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219134032	Thanks to Enhedslisten. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219134038	It is, of course, a draft law with four elements which, one might say, answer various questions, to put it mildly. We'll take them one by one. In relation to the regions' delegation of competences for the conclusion of agreements during the extended free hospital elections, we can, of course, support it in the Liberal Alliance. We think that is really sensible. One can then hope that we will have an even greater discussion on how to ensure that patients have a genuinely free choice of hospital and can be treated in private hospitals and also hospitals abroad to a much greater extent than today, but it is probably a major discussion to take up at this stage. We can easily support the element itself. We also think that the clarification of the health legislation's transport arrangements is quite fine. In relation to the publication of injunctions and the whole discussion on patient safety, etc. We think this is extremely relevant and we are very pleased that it has been included. With regard to the abolition of the term 'official doctors', it may well be that I am unable to see through the problems at the same level as a number of the rapporteurs who have been up in the past. Of course, you may have a number of wishes for what else needs to be done, but I would like to see the Minister of Health, either in his reply here in a moment or in the written answers, provide a guarantee that a wider majority, or even a majority, can help to adopt the bill. We are, in fact, going positively into this with the expectation of voting yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219134214	Thank you. And then it's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219134220	Thank you. Our health services are for the citizens, for patients, and therefore our aim must always be to simplify, have clear guidelines and create transparency for patients. We do that in a number of ways with this bill. There are a number of linguistic changes in the draft law, and several rapporteurs have explained them, so I will not repeat them all, but simply state that we support that part. There is also a clarification of the rules on transport of health care. We support that too. There is a number of things that relate to the publication of the instructions that the Danish Health Service can give to a hospital, a clinic etc., and we also support that part, because we fully agree with the argument that it is for the benefit of citizens that they can easily find information about injunctions that may have been given to a place where they, for example, have been given. is considering treatment. The last part deals with the coroner. The government wants to cancel the designation, but that the same tasks must continue to be carried out under the Danish Health Authority and continue in three locations. We are pleased that two decentralised units are being maintained west of Storebælt. This allows us to retain some of the competences widely in the country, which in some cases are tied up to specific challenges in certain geographical areas. But we also have some questions for that part. Several have expressed relevant views in relation to the process. There are also educational requirements for those who are with the official doctor who carry out certain tasks. It is not quite clear how some of the educational requirements are defined in the future. We'd like to talk about that a little more. However, we are positive about the draft law and the amendments mentioned, but as several other rapporteurs have also proposed today, we are also very happy to take part in further discussions on the part relating to the official doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219134405	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219134411	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the immediate support for the three-quarters of the proposals contained in the legislative proposal. It is already a nice success rate, and then we can go to the part that has been problematized, namely the issue of the timely change of the official designation at all and why it should be now. The broad approach of the rapporteurs has been that there is a need to look at it, but that there are some issues that need to be clarified. Some of them will be tabled in writing, it will solve some of the problems, and some of them will certainly be tabled orally in a moment, and one can well imagine that in that process we will reach so far that everyone can see the wisdom of what has been put forward and that we will therefore immediately support the proposal. On the whole, I would just like to say that what is being proposed is not a substantive change. What is being proposed is a change of name, and with the change that is being made, the Danish Health Service must carry out the same tasks in the same way as they are doing today. The structural change is that it is said that the Danish National Health Service and the medical institutions are one unit, moreover, organised under the Danish Health Service and this is something that the Danish Parliament has carried out in the past, among other things. in the process went from five to three units. I think it was back in 2012, and that is what the Danish People's Party's rapporteur feared would be something Copenhagen or Copenhagenerisation. And as I remember it, but of course I remember incorrectly, DF supported the Copenhagenization and, as I remember it, it was the Left and the Conservative People's Party alone, which was not in favour of the amendment when the law was passed at the time. But let it go. I think that the central point here is that we are in a situation in which there is no doubt that the supervision carried out by the supervisory authorities, i.e. the official doctors or the Health Service under one, has not been satisfactory. We have cases that document that too. In addition, it has also been said that what needs to be done needs to be clarified. After all, the EPSO report has made clear recommendations on this, including the division of tasks between the units, the management structure and a clear conceptual apparatus, which, of course, is part of what the name change is about, namely to say: are we sure that there is no doubt that the concepts we use do not create any doubt as to who has the power to decide, what the structure is in which decisions are taken, etc? And that is really what this is all about. This is an element of the overall action plan on how we should make our supervision work in the future. When I said at the outset that there may be some written questions about education and so on, where you will be completely reassured when they are answered, it is because there are some of the comments that have been made that may well need to be corrected, and then you will vote in favour if necessary. That solution is an option. There have also been a number of comments which have gone on when to work on the action plan which Parliament has been sent over. And the truth is that the work is going on at the moment, and the Folketing is also informed about this. The action plan outlines 25 actions, and 9 of the areas of action have already been implemented in accordance with the timetable in place. So, what kind of bets are these? Yeah, it's like... something like two units or offices of the National Health Service have merged. After all, it is not a political decision that a new overseer has been appointed, that a quality programme has been drawn up for supervision, that core areas have been defined, etc. But it is also true, as has been said here, that, of course, there is also a need in the whole political circle for, among other things, the European Parliament. to have a look at how supervision is to be changed. That is, for example, the case. So, as we approach the summer, there is, of course, a need for the overall political decision-making document, with the various possibilities to re-examine supervision. I do not think it is in reverse order that we say that one of the elements involved is to relate to what kind of name is used here. And that is why the proposal to abolish the concept of official medicine as a name is included in the legislative proposal that is now before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219134946	There is a brief comment from Mrs Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219134949	Of course, you can try to simplify it and say that this is just a matter of a name. One might also say that it is a question of giving oneself freedom as minister and as the governing body to be able to make any changes afterwards without asking the Folketing for law. Now the Minister himself mentions that this action plan has come back as far back as June 2014 and that a number of efforts have been made, but there are also a large number of efforts that have not been implemented. One of the major points of discussion raised in the presentation of the action plan is, of course, the whole question of whether this will require more resources for supervision in the future, also depending on what supervision one would like to have. Can the Minister not tell us why the government has not taken the initiative at all to convene political discussions, despite the fact that the action plan has been in place since June 2014? Why, in this area too, will the discussion be postponed, why not act on it now? Where does the Minister intend to find money to strengthen supervision if the government believes that there is a need to strengthen supervision? How much money? Or is it just in that area where people say: No, no, the finding of money must come after a choice, we cannot do that now and here? This is done in many other areas, so it should not surprise me that this is also happening in relation to the Ministry of Health. I just find it weird that you have not followed up politically on this overall by inviting the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss what kind of supervision we need to have in the future, whether there is a need to add resources, yes/no, possibly how many, and where we find them. And then you come to the Assembly Hall today with a bill and say: 'By the way, we would like to have carte blanche that we can change everything without having to ask the Danish Parliament for law afterwards by abolishing the medical institution and calling it all for the Danish Health Service, and then we can organizationally implement everything we want to do afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135147	Well, this isn't a question of acquiring the freedom to make changes. On the contrary, this is a question of going to the Folketing and saying that there is a need here to make a specific limited change which would be sensible, in relation to the fact that we would like to have the most effective supervision that we can wish for. That is why it is being presented to the Folketing. So there is no question of sticking anything under the chair or trying to take some liberties that otherwise there isn't. As far as resources are concerned, we are now in the process of implementing the action plan, which I also outlined, that there is a need for some legislative changes, that some analyses should be carried out which should lead to the decision-making base which should enable us to relate to what it should look like in the future. Does it require more or less resources? I don't know. This will, of course, be included in the recommendations and analyses on which our decisions must be based, and that is why it would also be counterproductive if we said that we are now starting to set aside some resources for a task that we do not know, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135250	Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135252	I have to understand the last part of the Minister's reply in such a way that it is thought that it is timely care that we do not embark on a political debate about what kind of supervision we would like to have in the future, including the question: is there a need for resources to be provided? That is to say, it has been one of the major criticisms, also in relation to the discussion on the action plan, that there are at least some people, and when I say some people, it is people who at least have a thorough knowledge of the supervisory part of the Health Authority who have made public statements that the prerequisite, if we want to strengthen supervision, among other things. It is also about the question of the supply of resources. After all, I believe that we have to deal with this politically. But the government doesn't think we can do that. That is just why I think it is a little strange that we are in the Chamber today to make a change, and then they say that we will start talking about what should happen and what should not happen with the supervision. Why does the Minister think that we cannot start acting on this politically with a view to strengthening supervision?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135400	Parliament knows, and the committee knows in particular, the action plan that has been put forward. We are well aware of the many elements in it and know that essential parts are being implemented, that decisions have been taken. It has been mentioned in several places. We know that analyses are being carried out to provide a basis for decision-making, so that we can also deal with the way in which supervision is to be organized in the future this summer. That is why we are today in a situation where we need to have the basis for decision to take the decisions on what supervision should look like in the future. It is constantly being acted on in the common interest that we have to ensure as good supervision as possible to the benefit of patient safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135450	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135509	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135540	Today we are dealing first with draft law L 136, draft law amending the health law, the pharmaceutical law and the tissue law. This sounds a little bit long-haired, but nevertheless the bill here will have an impact on a very special group of vulnerable people, namely runners with a high level of drug consumption. The fact is that critics with a high level of drug consumption today, via their own doctor, must apply to the Danish Health Service for a so-called chronicler supplement. With the bill here, this grant will be automated so that no one will in future experience being forgotten if either they have not applied for themselves or they may not have had the profits for the application process. The bill amending the Health Act translates a partial agreement into the 2015 Health Finance Act, which the Left has voted in favour of, so we naturally support that part of the bill. Specifically, it means for the individual chronicler, grown up as a child, that you will not pay more in your own payment for eligible medicines than 3,830 DKK. in 2015 figures for the necessary medicine within a grant period. There are a number of medicines on the market, and more are coming in. Therefore, we need to strengthen the monitoring of medicines, whether you are a chronician with a high and persistent drug consumption, or you belong in the category that only occasionally takes a headache tablet. Yes, we all need to feel safe that whatever medicine we choose is safe and the side effects that may exist are duly recorded. The European Medicines Agency, EMA, has been given enhanced powers to monitor our nationally authorised medicinal products, and it therefore makes sense when we follow up the legislative proposal here on the implementation of the European Parliament and Council directive of 2010. What is new is that a new coordination group under the Risk Assessment Committee will be given an extended mandate to also ensure the supervision of medicinal products at national level, as well as greater transparency on the safety of medicinal products through common databases, which are managed by the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, in a completely new pan-European web portal, to be linked through our own national web portal. To strengthen patient safety is also the starting point for our proposal here to allow the Danish Health Service to shorten the names of medicinal products with short dosage and indication texts, so that doctors and other health professionals can easily and quickly get an overview of a given medicine and that they can communicate with patients not least as easily. These are measures that strengthen patient safety, and we support this from the Left. With regard to changes in the tissue law, a number of corrections have to be made to the tissue law following the merger of the Danish Medicines Agency with the Danish Health Service, and we find that from the Left is completely unproblematic. In addition, it is proposed to include a number of concepts in the tissue law such as: In the future, the Danish Health Service will publish an activity report containing information on e.g.: imports and exports of tissues. The draft law provides for the possibility of the activity of each tissue establishment being made publicly available, if requested, without, of course, providing personal information. We in the Left have a small point of concern about this part of the legislative proposal, and we will ask about it during the committee reading, and we will also ask whether the legislative proposal here over-implements EU legislation, which we do not immediately consider appropriate, if this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135932	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219135948	Thank you. We would really like society to be as flexible and as appropriate and as easy as possible in its operation as possible. We would very much like the quality to be as high as possible in all the places where the state has to deal with something and in health that patient safety is paramount and very high priority. That is why this bill is, in fact, a very good legislative proposal, which in three areas ensures positive change. Unfortunately, we have a great many citizens in our society who, in their everyday lives, need a lot of medicine because of illness. That is why it is very good that we are now making the relief, that you get the subsidy you are entitled to, if you use a lot of medicine, and that you get it without having to go up to your own doctor and thereby seek the subsidy. There are a lot of chronic patients, and yes, we call it chronic supplement, but there are also diseases which may not necessarily be chronic, but which require a lot of medicine for some periods. The intention is that this part of the law will enter into force from 1 January 2016 and that there will be a transitional period of 1 year. On subsidies for medicine, I would say that there is still an opportunity for those people for whom 3,830 kroner. a year for medicine is a lot of money, can seek support from their municipality to cover the expense. The second amendment to this law is that there is an EU directive on pharmaceutical legislation and pharmacovigilance, and there is the one and only question of getting the weight of safety for patients using medicines as well as possible. The third and final amendment is a change to the tissue law, which makes that law more easily understood and thus also more transparent. This is a good bill and we in the Socialist Group support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219140202	Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219140211	Again we see a bill with a number of minor changes. I am based on what I think is the most important of it, and that is the automatic contribution from the chronicler. It is a very good proposal that you can now automatically obtain a contribution from the chronicle, since we have seen that in fact many citizens did not receive the contribution from the chronicle that they should have. This makes it easier. But there's just a small one, but it could be a little better. Today, unfortunately, we see that there are some citizens who cannot get the medicines they need because they cannot afford to pay what you have to pay before you can get the first subsidy. Today it is the case that you have to up to DKK 915 before subsidies are granted, and that means that a first-time kroni has to pay this money first. And we know from several articles that have been over the past few years that pharmacies around the country must tell how customers turn around when they are told what to pay and go home without medication. This is something that many of us in the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection have taken up. It will still be a problem after the adoption of this proposal, and I think it could have been built into it. At least that's some of the things I'd like to ask you about. The problem is also that once you have received a chronicler's allowance for 5 years, as it is now, you have to return to medical expenses, which are more than DKK 17.738, in order to receive a chronicler's allowance. I have experienced the first citizen who has approached and said: I have to prove again that I have medical expenses of more than DKK 17,000 before I can get a contribution from the chronicle. So it may sound really good, and it will also be very good for many of our cronys, but there are some places where we have to look at whether we can't do it a little better. I can see that the reply has been given to the Pharmacy Association, which has just stated it in their hearing reply, and said that we have a grace arrangement. And that's what you do if you use the same pharmacy. Then it will be exciting how it will be with the new Pharmacy Act, but we can take that afterwards. But then you have to go to the same pharmacy to get a grace arrangement where you can pay 300 kroner. a month to offset the amount over one year. But it also maintains the customers of the pharmacy in question, which means that they do not have the same freedom. So I think the Ministry could look at how we help the citizens, who are the weakest citizens we have in the country, and these are the ones who cannot afford to pay 900 kroner for the first time they have to pick up medicine. These are some of the things I want to take with us when we discuss the proposal. And it may also be that I will try to see if we can have an amendment. It may also be that the Minister could bring something. There will be some money in the proposal if you do not have to go through all the applications and then you could use some of them. I also know that, in the past, I also know that Enhedslisten has been on the proposal... has pointed this out with patients who cannot get medication. You should have done a little better when you made the proposal. We could also look at the funds that were used for the HPV vaccine, where we lifted it, in relation to when you could get a grant. We could bring that back again, because we don't want to use this catch-up program. So I think that would have been a good idea to get in, but perhaps we could work on that in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219140554	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219140607	With this bill, changes in the health law, the pharmaceutical law and the tissue law are being proposed. The changes in the law on medicinal products and the law on tissue are all minor changes, such as: ensure the transposition of the tissue directive into Danish law, but for the Radical Left, the most important element of this bill is the amendment we are implementing in the Health Act, where we are now introducing an automatic chronicle allowance for citizens with a high level of drug consumption. The proposal implements the Government, SF and Enhedslisten's Health Sub-Agreement in the context of the 2015 Finance Act, and the agreement will set aside 22 million. kr. Annually to finance a new automatic chronicler grant scheme from 1 January 2016. Exactly that part of the bill we in the Radical Left are incredibly happy about. Living with a chronic disease, which requires a lot of medicine, is very stressful for a great many people, first and foremost of course physically and mentally, but also financially. Therefore, in Denmark we have a chronicler grant, but as it is today, it is administratively difficult to get that grant granted, which means that a number of runners do not get the subsidy to which they are actually entitled. By automating the grant, it is ensured that all citizens with a high level of drug consumption always have a ceiling on their medical costs. Radical Left and government have declared as their goal the fight against inequality in health. This proposal is a small step down that road, and that is why we in the Radical Left are very pleased with the draft law, which we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219140758	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219140817	The aim of the proposal to amend the Health Act is to introduce an automatic chronicler allowance for citizens with a high level of pharmaceutical consumption. The proposal implements the Government, SF and Enhedslisten's Health Sub-Agreement in connection with the Finance Act for 2015. Automation of the Kroniker grant will ensure that all citizens with high drug consumption, including weak patients, always have a ceiling on their annual medical costs, and we would like to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219140847	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219140854	Thank you. After all, we know that inequalities in relation to health are great, and one of the barriers that is great in order to achieve a more equal access to treatment is user charges. It can be very expensive to be ill when you have high costs of treatment, for example. for his medicine. Patients with chronic diseases in particular often have a high cost of medicine, and if you also have a low income then it may be a rather incalculable task to buy the necessary medication. According to a study by the TrygFonden, four out of ten cash aid recipients have failed to buy medicines prescribed by the doctor because they could not afford it, and it increases the risk of exclusion if you have the combination of being sick and unemployed and then you cannot afford to buy the right treatment. A moment ago, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party stood up here on the platform with some of the same points. I think that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party forgot one detail, for it was the case back in 2008 that the Danish People's Party, together with the Left, Conservative, then New Alliance and Radical Left, contributed significantly to the reduction of the drug subsidy. Some 280 million were taken. kr. in writing. - (DE) From the medical grant, the bill was passed on to the citizens we are talking about today in order to be able to finance the vaccine from HPV. So it was decided to raise the limit for aid for medicine from DKK 465. to 750 kroner, plus a regulation, which meant that it would increase in the future. So that's why you're going to go up to 925 kroner. In medicine, before you get a grant, just like that, so it's in history. In connection with this autumn's draft Finance Bill, we took up this issue of how it could be looked at in various ways. I fully agree that there are many more things that can be done, among other things. to lower this general limit. But this, which we found in the financial law negotiations jointly with the government and the SF, is a really important step. There are 32 000 citizens today who are entitled to a contribution from the chronicle, but who do not get it anyway, and for them it can therefore make quite a big difference, which means that they can get the treatment that the doctor has prescribed is the right one for them. So we are very pleased that this proposal is now being presented as a legislative proposal. We can also support the second part of the legislative proposal to adapt to the pharmacovigilance directive. We think it is quite sensible to have European cooperation on safety in medicinal products.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141137	There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141141	Thank you. I'm gonna have to go back to remembrance. I did not forget anything, because if you were to have a vaccine at that time, it was the case at that time that a lot of people had to be vaccinated. This means that some resources were needed, and at that time it was actually agreed that the group which had taken a position on it would also find out what the money was going to be used for, once these vaccines had been bought. This was forgotten by this Red Government, with the participation of the Radicals, who came to it afterwards, because they have taken the money for some other things. It was forgotten that afterwards it could have been said that the ceiling could now be reduced again. It was, of course, a road that I think Enhedslisten as a support party to the new government could have gone much further in relation to the fact that some people come up and meet a border and cannot afford to pay. Chronics have always received subsidies, but what do you do for those who come up and cannot afford to pay for the medicine? Why hasn't it been included in this deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141241	Here you go, Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141243	We are willing to clean up after the mistakes made by the Danish People's Party. As I hear the rapporteur, this was a clear mistake, because it raised the limit on the granting of subsidies for medicines quite considerably, and it also introduced a regulatory system which means that the ceiling on the amount of aid for medicines will continue to increase in the future. We would really like to help change that, and it would have been something easier if you had never made that mistake. Then we would not have had so many people today who are in the unhappy situation that they cannot pay their medical expenses. However, we would like to cooperate on this and we would like to help to see if some of the mistakes made by the Danish People's Party and other parties in the past can be corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141325	Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141327	Well, I don't think Enhedslisten will think it's a mistake when you look at what that will mean for cancers in the future. At the same time, I would say that it is the current government that, with the support of the Enhedslisten, has created the regulatory mechanism that costs more. It has been adopted in the time of this government, and we were particularly critical of the fact that the amount that had to be paid was now increased before subsidies could be granted. So it is wrong to say that it was the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141359	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141400	Well, that was part of that deal back from 2008. And in this context, it ended up with the fact that the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Socialists had to leave the negotiations on HPV vaccine, which, incidentally, we think is quite reasonable, but for which I am absolutely convinced we could have found another funding if we wanted to. At that time, however, a majority of the bourgeois parties decided that the people who have the cost of medicine should only pay. That is very, very regrettable. Here we are correcting it a little bit for those who have the greatest cost of medicine. I think that is a good thing, and I would very, very, very much like to see whether more can be done. I think it is very important that user charges do not prevent you from getting the treatment you need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141447	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141459	Thank you very much. My speech can be divided into two brief remarks. The first is that, and now I hope, Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic will hear it, despite the fact that the party chairman came in that I would just like to endorse the words that came from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic. I fully agree with what was said. And that is the positive aspect of the proposal, namely to ensure that some people who have had a difficult economic situation in relation to their illness are guaranteed. We think this is really positive. The second is the question of specifying the legal basis for the Minister to lay down rules on the fees charged by pharmaceutical companies to the Danish Health Service's pharmaceutical business. In any case, I think we will just have to ask a few questions about what it is actually going to cover up and whether there is any risk that some will pay more and too much. However, from the outset we are actually very positive about the main element of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141604	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141609	Thank you. I can join the Glee Club. In my speech to the previous point, I also said that we must always aim to create clear guidelines and transparency and to simplify citizens' contact with health care. And I think we are continuing the good line with this proposal. In the Conservative People's Party, we support the fact that we now have this automation of the chronicle grant. Some patients, as several have already mentioned, have a very high cost of medicines so high that it can be difficult to cover the costs on their own. And that is also why we have a ceiling on the annual cost of medicines for these citizens. This is the subsidy that we are now automating, so patients get the eligible grants completely automatically and without too much trouble with many applications or attendance at doctor or other authority. The fact that we automate the grant provides security for citizens and makes everyday life easier for a great many citizens. We can also support the final part of the draft law, which applies to the implementation of new EU legislation, including enhanced cooperation on pharmacovigilance in the European Union and also some clarifications based on the tissue directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141712	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Health and Prevention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219141726	Well, thank you from here too for all the positive comments and support for the bill. The amendments to the law that have been tabled will all be of benefit to patients as a whole. However, I think that what is particularly important is that the rapporteurs are particularly pleased about what the rapporteurs have done most about the draft law, which is contained in the Finance Act for 2015, which the government has done together with Enhedslisten and SF, and which makes it possible to seek Parliament's agreement to change the medical grant, so that the chronicler's allowance is automatically granted in the future. Especially because this means that those citizens who have a high cost of medicine will always receive the subsidy to which they are entitled without having to go around a doctor. And we are in the situation today that there are cronys who have such a high cost of medicine that they would be eligible for subsidies, but who do not receive the subsidy to which they are entitled. And, of course, some of those who do not get that subsidy are some of those who, by the way, have the least resources and have the most help needed. I understand perfectly well that the Danish People's Party would like it to be even better. I guess you'll always do that. However, funding is needed, and here we are in a situation where we are really going to help a large number of people in Denmark out of very, very high medical costs in an extremely reasonable way. If you follow the debate without being the world champion of medicines, you might wonder how it actually works. But today, the system is designed in such a way that the greater the cost of medicines to a citizen, the greater the public contribution. And that means, as was rightly outlined, that you have to pay up to DKK 925 yourself, and then there is 50 per cent. grants, 75%. subsidies, 85%. subsidies and at the top 100 per cent. grants. And that means that those who have the greatest expenses are going to get this 100 per cent grant, and that means we're going to get a ceiling on own funds for these 3,830 kr. Then there is the question: What about them, for whom 3,830 kroner. had to be an unreasonable financial burden? However, this proposal does not alter the fact that there is still the possibility of applying for local government subsidies for their medical expenses. All in all, today we have a legislative proposal on which I expect we will be able to gather widely, because it will simply help some people in society who need help and because we have managed to find money to give it help. A few questions have been raised. The rapporteur of the Left raised the issue of tissue legislation, and I have no doubt that we will be able to settle this during the committee procedure, just as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur raised the issue of the possibility of fees, which we can, of course, resolve along the way in the course of the ongoing legislative process. Thank you for the comments and support for this, I think, extremely good legislative proposals, which we have the privilege of being able to adopt together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219142124	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219142140	The debate is open, and this is the Minister for Health and Prevention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219142159	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. Over the coming years, the government's strategy for a stronger Danish health service will be rolled out before, the better, and translated into reality around the country. We have addressed a whole range of issues that need to be strengthened, and one of the things that fills the most and is one of the key ideas of the strategy is that doctors and nurses and social and health assistants and other health professionals should be better able to listen to patients and the relatives of patients at all. We all understand how important it is for a person who suffers from a bad disease to receive support and help to and from his relatives. For a life is just a life in the sense that it is other than disease. It is also work, everyday life, family, shopping, delivering children, picking up teenagers from parties, comrades who are going home and playing, associating with neighbors and with friends. And all that is still a part of life, even though you are suffering from a serious illness. And it is all something that will be affected when a person is affected by a disease, whether of that or of the other kind. And we all understand that the relatives of a person with a severe illness are, after all, an important piece in the process of treatment and rehabilitation and to be able to return to their own life at all. A disease is not just a diagnosis. It is also a trip into difficult emotions and intangible impressions and experiences and thoughts, the fear and impotence of not being able to understand it, not being able to do more, not being able to do something for yourself and being at the mercy of the actions of others. We understand that. That is also why we in the government have set 300 million. kr. of this particular element, i.e. that the health services involve patients and their relatives much more. We have the municipalities which today have a duty to pay attention to children who need help if one of their parents gets sick. We have the regions which have a duty to have a plan for involving patients of the relatives of the psychiatric population. We have the Danish Health Service, which has prepared national recommendations for health professionals on how to deal with children with seriously ill parents. And then, in the government, we have launched a whole series of new initiatives. In the field of the pool of rates alone, we have set aside 10 million. kr. to support the work of municipalities and regions to involve children and adults as relatives. We've set aside 9 million. kr. to support children and young people of parents with mental disorders. We have allocated 56 million. kr. to the municipalities' work on family-oriented alcohol treatment, and from 2016 we set aside approx. 70 million kr. to spread a nationwide treatment offer to children and adolescents living in families with drug or alcohol problems. So with the bet pool, we've set aside more than 250 million. kr. over the next four years to include, among other things: to help children and young people who are relatives of seriously ill parents or parents with abuse. In this way it can be said that the proposers are in no way alone with their desire to do more for relatives. A lot of work is being done in these years, and it's actually been going on for a long time. Among other things, you can. Thank the government for that, and the proposers of the SF can also thank themselves for it. For SF was in the negotiations on the Finance Act in the autumn. You voted in favour of the Finance Act, you sat at the table, and on that front the proposal here actually puzzles me. For the budget law for 2015 has now worked for 2 months, and 2 months into the new year there will be proposals for new expenditure, which, I believe, were not included in the financial law negotiations when we negotiated in the autumn. I do not think that is a fair way of acting as a party. I fully understand that there is no mouse trap clause in the Finance Act as it is made. I just think that we should respect the agreements that are being made, and I think that when we make a very expensive proposal which will cost quite a lot more money in the state budget, we also have to indicate funding. We are not voting in favour of the proposal because we are in full swing in this area and because we have an agreement with, among other things. SF to allocate 300 million. kr. to better involve relatives of patients and because we do not spend money that we do not have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219142737	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219142741	Thank you. After all, things in the field of health were negotiated centrally at the time of the financial law negotiations. That was among other things. one of the reasons why the Minister was not at the table. We actually included the proposal for the financial law negotiations. It may be that the Minister has not been informed of this matter so that we would really like to create this competence network which ensures that children who have a mother or father who is seriously or mentally ill or are suicidal or have an abuse can get that help. And it is absolutely right, as the Minister says, that there is a great deal of money already at work, but there is no coordination effort. Some of it is actually also based on projects. That is why I would just like to hear from the Minister: does the Minister think that enough is being done today to inform the children as a specific family group? Does the Minister think that these children are being remembered and helped in this process, i.e. when Mom or Dad is ill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219142841	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219142843	I would have liked the questioner to have listened to the speech I have just given, because one of the things I have said is that we have been the banner leader in order to allocate 300 million. kr. to improve the involvement of relatives and patients in the course of treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219142905	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219142910	Actually, I've heard the speech. The question is whether the Minister heard my question. I'll say that again. Today it is the case that there are a lot of efforts in relation to relatives, while children as a specific family group are very rarely mentioned. In the projects we have jointly made, we have set aside some money for it for some limited patient groups. But it is still a waste of money; it is not the case that it is mentioned precisely in the legislation that children, especially children as relatives, should be remembered. That is why I repeat my question: does the Minister believe that children whose mother or father is physically or mentally seriously ill are being informed enough today? Does the Minister think that what we are doing is good enough and that children will get the help they need and the information they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143002	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143003	It is the same question formulated in a different way, and therefore the answer is of course the same. When we set aside $300 million. kr. For better involvement of relatives and patients, this is, of course, an expression of the fact that we believe it can be better.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143021	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann as the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143041	To suffer from illness physically or mentally, be suicidal or abuser can have serious consequences. But the consequences are not only felt by those who are affected or by those who are ill; they are also felt by the relatives. As an adult and a relative, you often have something to resist. It is quite different as a child in a family where mother or father suddenly or unexpectedly becomes seriously ill, physically or mentally. The intentions behind the proposal that we are discussing today, that is to say to inform and support children as relatives as necessary, we on the Left fully support it. According to Statistics Denmark, more than 130,000 children are relatives of seriously ill siblings or parents, and on top of that the number of addicts comes. So there are many fates that depend on the efforts of public or private aid organisations to offer families and their relatives in the midst of a difficult and often chaotic time. More than one child in four has had serious illness or death close to life before the age of 25. And I know the story from my own family. I lost my sister when I was 7, so I know from experience that it takes strong family ties to cope with such a life crisis when the worst possible scenario is: to lose a child, a sister, a brother, a mother or a father. It warms when I see that there is a political focus on how we help families, that is, whole families, and not only the sick one, but also those around the sick one. Children and young people are so easy to miss because they often adapt to the new situation, at least for a time. In 2012, the Danish Health Authority prepared national recommendations for children and young people as relatives, which also extends beyond children up to 18 years of age, as the motion for a resolution suggests here. We in the Left believe that it makes sense also to involve young adults in the effort. It is so easy and really not very appropriate for a young person to become a parent. The 2012 publication of the Danish Health Authority entitled "National recommendations for the meeting of health professionals with relatives of seriously ill people" aims precisely to identify relatives' possible needs for support. And that is what the Left has been working on for several years to strengthen precisely the systematic effort. We have among other things. with last year's rate pool agreement proposed funds for the preparation of web-based courses for health professionals focusing on children and young people as relatives; just as we have proposed, at our last financial law game, to reserve funds for a special effort for children and young people as relatives of parents with mental disorders. Last but not least, in connection with the summer 2014 stake pool negotiations, we have proposed the systematic involvement of relatives, and this also benefits children and young people. And I am really pleased that the SF has also supported all those proposals. As I mentioned earlier, we in the Left support the intentions of the proposal, but we cannot support the proposal in its entirety, precisely because, as the authors themselves point out in the comments, a number of initiatives have already been initiated which are aimed precisely at systematising the efforts made towards a very specific group, namely vulnerable children and young people. And with regard to the national recommendations, I would urge the government to ensure that work on the implementation of the national recommendations is progressing so as to ensure that the recommendations come out and work where they are intended to make a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143436	Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143439	Thank you for your support for your intentions. It is quite true that the SF itself has proposed some of the points mentioned by the rapporteur in the rapporteur's speech, but the problem is that there are incredibly many bodies. There is also something over in the Ministry of Social Affairs and in social legislation that is being done in relation to children, but there is no systematic in it. Can the rapporteur not confirm that many of the initiatives we are making through the pool are pool projects? Although these are excellent projects, there is an expiry date, which means that many of the initiatives actually fall apart, because it is not fully ensured in the legislation that there must be systematic involvement of children as relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143523	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143525	I am delighted that Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic has just taken up the issue of the system. After all, as I said in my speech, this is one of the things that has been important to the Left, namely to maintain that we must have a systematic effort. I would like to remind the SF's rapporteur very briefly of what is actually included in the wage-pool agreement that we have made and which has the heading "A special effort for children and young people of parents with mental illnesses'. After all, it says here that the proposal is intended to provide children and young people with mentally ill parents with systematic child and family conversations. So we're on our way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143603	Thank you. Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143604	Well, we're just the problem is that the road is made up of a lot of different projects. In relation to the mentally ill, which is also mentioned in the pool agreement, and which is something that we also burned a lot too much on the part of the SF, it is absolutely right, and there is also something in relation to children of alcoholic parents. There is also something in relation to other groups. The problem is, of course, that we have not collected everything and have written specifically in the law that children have the right to information, that there should be these networks of competence and that the staff in the various departments should also pay attention to the children. What is involved is that there are a great many bodies, and in some places you do it very well, but it is not everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143652	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143653	Well, actually, I'm a little sad that the SF's rapporteur makes it sound like legislation itself is an objective. What I can see is that a large number of initiatives have been taken. So it is no longer than October 2014 that we, together in the agreement on the rate pool, are putting in place a systematic effort. After all, the rapporteur himself has signed that we should have systematic children's and family conversations. After all, the rapporteur himself has signed up to this. So there is a systematic effort. And I do not think that legislation should necessarily be an end in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143734	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219143745	Thank you very much. For us Social Democrats, it is therefore absolutely crucial that we focus on those who are having difficulty; those who are having difficulty in everyday life; those who are having difficulty in life. Therefore, this is also an incredibly crucial area, that is, that there is care aimed at the children and young people who are exposed to episodes in their lives, where either their parents or their siblings become seriously ill, or that they just meet the health care system as a shocking experience. It is also the view of the Social Democrats that this area of care must be a natural focus and focus of attention for health professionals in our health services, namely that there must be attention and involvement of relatives. And, as Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left said, the Danish Health Service has drawn up a national recommendation which clarifies precisely these points with regard to health care professionals. As the Minister for Health has also clarified in his introduction, there are a great many initiatives. These are initiatives that have emerged here from the Danish Parliament, from the Finance Act, from the stake pool negotiations, but also good initiatives that have emerged from and have provided good experiences in the municipalities and in the regions that run our hospital system. We in the Socialist Group still want us to improve in this area. We want us, of course, to collect knowledge, to systemize and to share the good experience that we have. However, with the Finance Act for this year, we have set aside a great deal of money for exactly patient and family involvement, which is why we are on our way. I should also like, as the Social Democrats' health rapporteur, to express my astonishment at the fact that, at this stage, after agreeing to the Finance Act for 2015, the SF comes up with a motion for a resolution which generates a new item of expenditure, the coverage of which is not provided for in the Finance Act. That's what I'm wondering. Of course, the Socialists do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144035	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144054	I would therefore like to commend the rapporteurs for making a proposal in this area. I do not want to criticise the fact that a proposal has been made simply because it has been included in a financial law agreement, because in the same way we will also have a debate in the Parliamentary Assembly on the issues we have in the country. Children who experience a sister, a brother, a mother or a father who gets sick often find themselves in a situation where there are many thoughts, there are many sorrows, and many times there are also self-conceptions because you take the blame. This is incredibly hard for these children, and that is why I can understand the intentions of the proposal. At the same time, it should be obvious that when you meet children who are affected in this way, you take care of them and find out what they need. Unfortunately, the Danish People's Party cannot vote in favour of the proposal either because of the funding, but I think there are a lot of good tactics in it, and that is why I think it is something that we should continue to work on. I think it's really good that you look at how to make people responsible in hospitals. The question is: is this something to put into education so that we can ensure that you have it with your backpack so that you can always take and be there for the children and young people who are in the situation? At the same time, I would like to spread it out a little and say: what are we doing in the municipalities? Many times it is the child who is in the institution while your father, mother or siblings are in the hospital and where there are cramped times, and there aren't so many adults to talk, and then maybe it's kindergarten, it's school, and it can be high school. How do we get the municipalities in to ensure that somebody takes care of those who need it? It is true that we have set many projects in motion over the various years, but we also know how it is with projects, because they also expire, and therefore it will not be something that is continuous, something that will always make sure that we take care of those who need it. I think it is important that we look at how we can build the aid, and I see in the proposal that you look at Norway, which has something similar, and I think we should take that up in the Health Committee. Now, of course, we are faced with the fact that we sometimes find it difficult both to have hearings or expert panels, but could we not try to do something to look at what we have, what we need, and how we can do it so that it becomes natural that we take care of those children and young people who are having a hard time? It would help their lives, of course, that they do not go into a mental illness because they have had a difficult time or that they stick together for families who may break up because of illness. So I think it is something that we in the Danish People's Party would like to continue working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144353	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic for a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144355	Thank you. And thank you for the positive words. I also think it is a very good idea that we can continue to work on this, including in the Health Committee, and look at the experience that has been gained in both Norway, Sweden and Finland, where legislation has specifically ensured that children are not forgotten. After all, we have heard several rapporteurs go up and say that money has been dropped and that it is just going out there. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: does the rapporteur think that children are guaranteed the information they need, that they are involved and get the help they need when Mom and Dad are seriously ill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144434	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144435	I see it as a huge challenge, because it is not everywhere out there today, and the projects that are being carried out cannot solve the task all around. But I do not think that the 10 million. kr., one writes in the proposal that it will cost, will be able to solve the task. In order to enable those responsible in all departments, both in psychiatric and somatic departments, to carry out that task, it will require something more, even in the future, so it must be something that is implicit and we must look at how we do it in terms of education and all the way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144507	Thank you. Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic. I have one more comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144510	Yes, there was one last comment. In terms of whether you can do it for 10 million. kr., then it will be possible to do this with a competence network where you simply coordinate the effort and do it systematically and ensure that the various efforts that are being made in advance are assembled With the way they have done it in Norway, they have not actually spent much money to get this coordinating effort. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur: will the rapporteur be interested in the fact that we in the Committee on Health are looking at Norway together and perhaps also trying to get some inspiration from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144550	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144552	We have often talked about taking a study trip, so it could be that we could go to Norway, because there are also other things in Norway that we have actually talked about looking at. There we could also look at how we have done this and how we can get some good ideas, instead of inventing the deep plate ourselves, so that we ensure that these children and young people get the help they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144611	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144624	The intention of this motion for a resolution by the SF is entirely in agreement on the radical side. For many years it has been a matter for the Radical Left that public authorities and staff are becoming much better at involving relatives and relatives' resources, recognizing that very few people live as desert islands. Most of us live in family networks, which is why it is also a whole family that gets hit when one of the members gets sick. Children in particular are, of course, at risk. It is difficult for a child to cope with grief, anxiety and insecurity, and therefore all children who have a mother or father who has a serious illness need help and support. Sometimes there are resources in the family or the network to deal with the situation themselves; sometimes you need help and support from either the public or from one of the many patient organisations, many of which have good offers for relatives and also for children. But can we do better and should we do better? Yes, we do, and yes, we do, and we do. We have just set aside 300 million. kr. in the government's health plan to involve patients and their relatives more. It's a play that Enhedslisten and SF together with the government found the money for in the finance negotiations this autumn. So we agree with the SF that there should be extra money, and therefore it seems a little strange that SF here, a few months after the Finance Act has been passed, comes and proposes more money for an area that we have Let us stand together to have that coinage done allerlest for the benefit of the children. I think we should enter into some good negotiations on this. That is why the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144820	Thank you. Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144822	Thank you. So I actually hear the Radical Left in relation to the funds that have been set aside say that in the negotiations starting in the spring, we should be able to go in to target some of the funds for children, specifically mentioning that children should not be forgotten when mother and father become seriously physically or mentally ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144843	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144845	Of course, since the money is devoted to family involvement, it is quite natural that children should become part of that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144854	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219144901	I think it is a sympathetic proposal from the SF. A great many rapporteurs before me have mentioned what it does to a child to be close to the relatives of someone who is ill. I do not want to elaborate on that, because it is absolutely right. There are a lot of things going on and have been doing it for many years. I remember that more than 20 years ago, my mother, as a psychiatric nurse, was responsible for having conversations with children who were relatives. It disappeared again because it did not have the money for it, and in this way I think this area has been throwing ball in many different contexts between an effort there, an effort here and a new initiative a third place, and therefore I can quite clearly follow the intentions of doing the work on the legislation, which describes what rights a child has in this respect, completely solidly. I think it is really important that such an effort is not characterised by too much pool management, too much project-making, but is ongoing and continuous and that there are some fixed routines around it. I can hear here today that there is a broad consensus that this is where we are going, and that is why it is perhaps also an area that should be worked out in the long term to lift the rate pool and to make it more sustainable. In relation to the very specific proposal for financing, I also think it is a little too easy to get around the corner simply by pointing out that it is from the growth of public spending that the money has to be taken, but I would like to say in return that we would like to discuss whether we can find some money in another context. Whether you could use the 300 million. kr., which is already provided for in the Finance Act to look at this, I think in some sense might be interesting. However, as the proposal stands here, we cannot vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219145054	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219145110	Thank you. The resolution deals with children in grief and children who grow up as relatives of parents or siblings who are seriously physically ill, mentally ill, suicidal or abusers, and this is a fine and worthy purpose. In fact, I think we are all very concerned about this, in other words to help some of the weakest in our society, namely children who are in a difficult situation in their lives. I must admit, however, that I am a little confused when I read the comments on the motion for a resolution, because the comments state that a very good piece of work is already being done today. It also states that 20 million have been set aside. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It seems disproportionate to what one spends on helping children, and then to this which has some more bureaucratic satisfactory result. At the end of the motion for a resolution there is the financing part. The proposal is financed as part of the growth of public consumption. In general Danish, the proposal is financed by increasing the public deficit. That is what can be called Greek funding, and we are not in favour of it under any circumstances, in other words, financing proposals in this way. I think, in fact, if you look at the purpose of the proposal, that there is a broad consensus in this House that we should do something for these children. But I find it difficult to see that you have to finance it the way you do, and I find it difficult to see that you have to use what is equivalent to 50%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. So the Liberal Alliance will vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219145340	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219145349	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the Conservative People's Party has great sympathy for many of the points in this resolution and, above all, for the intentions behind it. Children who are relatives of seriously physically ill, mentally ill, suicidal or abusers need help. We are talking about some of the most vulnerable children who are on the road in an unfamiliar situation and who are affected by the insecurity it creates. They are children who need care and support, and they do so today in many different ways. The question then is whether we can do more, and we certainly can. The resolution also mentions several good initiatives, but as the Minister and several rapporteurs have mentioned, the many good proposals are lacking. And that is an essential part if we are to make not only sympathetic but also responsible policy, and we must do so. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. I do not want to enter into the debate on whether one can afford to put forward a proposal such as this, even though one has been involved in adopting a financial law. This must be a matter between the parties of the government and the Socialist People's Party, but I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for raising the debate and I think we should continue it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219145505	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219145524	Thank you for the debate and thank you for all your comments. I would really like to tell you a little about the resolution itself, but before that I would like to add a few words to the comments that have been made. First of all, I would like to say in relation to the question whether, as a party, a proposal can be put forward, having been included in the budget negotiations, that if you had to follow that logic, you would not have to start negotiations at all, for example. on the subject of counter-terrorism, because we have been in the financial negotiations. Well, if something happened all of a sudden, and there was a need, you shouldn't do anything at all. This is something I have not heard before; when the previous government was negotiating, the Danish People's Party and others could make a number of proposals. That's one part. The second is that we have in fact quite specifically proposed that children of mental and physically ill, children whose mother or father had taken their own lives, and children of addicts were specifically referred to as a family group for which one could go in and make a difference. But we didn't get through with that, and that's why we're proposing this. But that does not end, because there will be negotiations on the prevention package in the near future, and we will also include this proposal. But if I have to tell you a little bit about the proposal itself, I would say that there is a lot of research that shows that when children are relatives of adults who are ill, they are affected and we can see that these children are affected to such an extent that it is actually not very healthy for them. It is already very difficult to be relatives of someone who is ill, but when you are not so big at the same time, and your age at least makes it extremely difficult to keep up with what is happening, it is the case that if your mother or father has a serious physical or mental illness or an abuse or they have taken their own lives, you need help. As I have also written in the remarks and as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll also points out, so there are actually very many places where you do it very well. I am also saying this in order to acknowledge that there are a number of initiatives and here some of them are based on pools, while elsewhere it is something the municipality has initiated or which the region has thought was important but the system is not there. Here you could create a competence network where you go in and say that among the staff who are in the departments there is one who is responsible for ensuring that the children are not forgotten, that you remember to ask the children when their mother or father is ill, whether someone is taking care of them. Fortunately, there are a great many children who have a very large and strong network, but there are also children who do not have the necessary support in their networks and who need an extra effort. It may be in the form of a conversation, where you just tell what happens to Mom or Dad, but it may also be by informing the municipality and saying: "There is a child here whose mother or father is having a really hard time and is sick; can't you take care of this child? And that is why I think it is very interesting to see how they are doing this basically in our neighbouring countries. There it has been done in Norway that you have created this competence network, where you have also made sure that the children as relatives are systematically involved and informed, and there I think it is actually very exciting to look at: what can we do to make these children feel better? When I hear the comments around me, I have to say that I do not share the extreme optimism about it going out there everywhere. It does in some places, but you can, for example. also just hear what they say in TUBA, which deals with children, who come from families where there has been an excess consumption of alcohol, or you can talk to the Lifeline or a number of other places. If Mom or Dad has taken their own life and the child is sitting back, then help is still very dependent on where you live in the country, which department you are connected to, or which project runs exactly in that municipality or region. I would very much like it to be so more systematic, in other words through legislation, that we ensured that the children were not forgotten. Now that we're talking about this whole inclusion agenda in relation to primary school and many other places, I'm trained as a nurse myself. I would not say that my own professional group is better than everyone else, but we are actually forgetting the children because we believe that relatives are not children. After all, many of us are also overseeing psychiatric departments. There you can see that the waiting rooms are not just one thing that indicates that the patients who are hospitalised also have children. When we ask them what they are doing with patients' children, there are unfortunately some places where they say that it is not good that they come here. Here's what you're thinking: Why? Didn't that kid know that the mother was really sick? Because the baby's been living with this mother. Why isn't it you take care of these kids? This is an attempt to do so, and I can hear that there is quite a large and broad support for the intention itself, and I hope that we can work together on it in committee. We could perhaps go and look at what is being done in our neighbouring countries, among others. in Norway, so that we could be inspired by it, in relation to the fact that we from Christiansborg can also make a difference to these children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150106	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150125	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150144	Thank you for the floor. As our rapporteur could not be present at this time, we agreed that I could easily stand for that. The Minister has put forward a bill amending the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Planning resulting from the Food Growth Agreement of June last year. According to the Minister, the aim of the bill is to reduce the length of proceedings for environmental authorisations and thus reduce the administrative work that has been carried out for both municipalities and companies. And the draft law concerns the small enterprises involved in the environment, which are therefore included in Annex 2. The proposal for a law here is a welcome step, and it must therefore be quite clear that we in the Left agree with the Minister that improving the effectiveness of environmental authorisations is necessary and then I will just take a breath of breath because, unfortunately, we must also recognise that the proposed efficiency is, of course, not very ambitious. It could have been much better. We are pleased that last year we reached a sensible agreement with the government on a food growth plan and an agreement on a growth package in June, and this bill has come out of these. The growth packages are, in the view of the Left, a step in the right direction, and this is absolutely essential if we are to create better competitiveness and more jobs in Denmark. That is why we are concerned that we can already see that the follow-up to the food growth plan is inadequate. After all, in the food growth plan, the parties to the agreement have wanted to see and I quote: '... a comprehensive simplification of the environmental authorisation process for food and other industrial enterprises, thereby allowing four out of five approvals to be dispensed with. This proposal is therefore not being implemented. We can read black and white in the consultation answer from the Ministry of Business and Growth that the Danish Business Authority's Team Efficient Regulation estimates that it will only be around 1,100 companies that will no longer be subject to approval as a result of this bill. That means that there is still a long way to go. After all, we do not get anywhere near the four out of five companies agreed. We are therefore very surprised at this in the Left, which means that we have to ask the Minister some questions during the committee procedure in order to clarify why the draft law does not comply with the political agreements made with the government. I welcome the Conservatives and say that they have the same attitude. Yes, we need to do some committee work to follow this up, and then we need to move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150447	Thank you to the rapporteur. I understand that the Left has also spoken on behalf of the Conservatives. Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150456	Thank you. After all, this proposal is about ensuring the protection of our environment... our water, our land, our nature... and at the same time making it easier to operate in Denmark. This means, as has already been said by the rapporteur from the Left, that, on the basis of several growth agreements, we have said on food and the growth package from the spring of last year that we must make it easier for companies to obtain approval for activity so that they can simply get started more quickly. In concrete terms, this is done by combining the three approvals that are to be obtained today in different areas into one, and by making it easier in the digital new solution that is being made, to go in and indicate that you are meeting the specific requirements that are being made, and thereby becoming a much easier approval. The procedure simply gets shorter because you get the right information, but it is also clear that it is also easier to find out what it is that you have to live up to, because there comes, you can say, a comprehensive overview of what is going on out there. So, in relation to what the rapporteur of the Left said about the fact that four out of five should not have an approval at all, one should remember that it is possible to make it easier for all companies to get their approval instead of removing the approval. In fact, it is also quite important for companies that they have an authorisation so that they have not just indicated themselves that they are living up to something and then immediately afterwards they are faced with demands that they now have to change their production. In other words, what lies in approval is that for eight years you are guaranteed that you can carry out the activity for which you have been approved. So for the Socialists, it is not so crucial whether it is called to report or whether it is called to obtain approval. What is important is that all these companies should have faster procedures here, easier procedures, more streamlined procedures, a one-tier procedure instead of a three-tier one, and we actually think we have achieved this with this proposal. So we welcome the need to save time. We welcome the fact that enterprising people in this country can get started more quickly. We also welcome the fact that there are, of course, almost 1,000 companies in a particular industry, i.e. the machine workshops, which can have an industry announcement and therefore get out of the permit altogether, if you like, but the important thing is that we make it easier for everyone, while at the same time we do not relax the requirements, both because we have supervision and because, of course, we have to meet proper requirements in relation to the protection of the environment and nature. I should like to welcome the Radical Left, which is prevented from being here, and to say that I have also spoken on behalf of them. We look forward to the committee reading and, as a starting point, we support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150758	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150803	Thank you. I think it suits us that we here in the Folketing are good at making broad agreements and taking responsibility together, and we formulate it on paper so that we know what we have agreed on and so that we can recognise the text the next morning, even if it has taken place in the late hours of the night. But it wasn't recognizable when this bill came, because it's quite understood that it was like that. 5,100 companies assessed could be subject to the authorisation requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150838	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150839	The lump we are dealing with today, if I may say so, is in the order of 5 000, and we say that for them we must ensure that the procedure is made easier. It can also be said in another way. In the old days it was the case that a company described what it was doing, and then it came on an application to an authority that would then have to sit and assess individually on that application and report back: If you are doing it here in the and the ways that you have described, and if by the way we have all the right information, then you have to live up to them and they and the environmental requirements. What we're doing with this scheme is we're trying to turn it around a little bit and say: Instead of sending in something about what you're doing, and then some environmental requirements come back, you have to go in here and report that you meet some environmental requirements, if you want to, i.e. some different environmental requirements that are specified. And it goes without saying that it will make it much easier, because then companies will just have to report that they are living up to it, and then you could say that it could stop there if it wasn't, because companies also need to have the assurance that the authorities are in line with what they have indicated. That is why companies are actually happy that a permit will be returned, if you like, even though the notification system has become much easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150953	Thank you. Mrs. Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219150955	I'm sorry, because it was a bit of a trick question, because yes, it's 5,100 that could be covered by the authorisation requirement, but with this bill, the Danish Business Authority says that only the 1,100 that can get this easy approach and get it done the easy way. Then it is just that I say: could it not have been nice if we had taken the whole package, because then we would have lived up to the text that we wrote together last year? That's one of the things that makes us worried. We will do good committee work, but it is just worrying that we are not just taking the steps that need to be taken to comply with our agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151035	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151036	Now the rapporteur of the Left says that only 1 100 will have easier access. That's not true. It's the whole pool here for whom it gets a lot easier. Then it can be discussed whether it takes only to tell the authorities that you have a company and then you get started. In other words, the difference here is that for some of the companies an approval has to be sent back, but if that approval is not allowed to wait because we have streamlined the procedure, if that approval is not to be obtained in three places but comes together, and if that approval has thus been standardized and much easier to obtain, it is of course a gain for the companies plus that they then know that it is not only they who have notified it, because at a later stage the authorities cannot come and say that there is something that is not right, because the authorities actually also approve the activity that they have and approve that one meets the requirements so that one knows that one can continue with one's production for a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151133	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151139	Thank you. Now the two previous rapporteurs have explained very well what the proposal is about. I think basically to simplify it for people who are listening that this is a matter of debureaucratising our arrangements. I think this is a very good thing, because it makes it simpler for companies that sit out there and need environmental approval. Where we have had several procedures for this in the past and where it has been a bit difficult, it is briefly and well made simpler. I think this is quite excellent, and it seems in the Danish People's Party that it makes it easier for the companies, and it makes it more clear that when they report, they tell them that they are actually doing the things they should do and that they also get approval. I think that works really well. There are quite a few places in the proposal where the Minister for the Environment is given some powers. I think I have mentioned several times from the floor of Parliament that it is not just my cup of tea. In principle, I think that it is a little bit like the European Commission that I have mentioned before: you have to have the power to change the size of the text, but then the rest must be something you decide in the Parliament. So that's something I'd like to study a little more closely. But I think it is a positive proposal because it debureaucraticises and because it makes it easier for companies and, in fact, for the authorities to grant these permits. So we are certainly positive on the part of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151307	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151327	From the SF's point of view, we are in favour of the bill. It is a very good idea to remove cases that are unnecessary and to spend resources on something else, both in the companies and in the municipalities. For SF, it is essential that there is no deterioration in either environmental protection or the citizen's ability to complain. Industry regulations will be consulted and general objections or suggestions for improvements can be made in this way, but for certain industry companies there will no longer be access to complaints in specific cases. It may also be okay, but may be a problem if a municipality does not correct a notification if the requirements for environmental quality, for example. due to the fact that the area is situated in a Natura 2000 area or because the environmental quality requirements have been exceeded in the recipient is not met. So who's gonna fix the county? I would like to spend some time on that during the committee work. I have also presented the Minister for the Environment with some specific cases in the past, and I would like to repeat that. We would like to ask the Minister for the Environment whether, at the same time as simplifications, improvements can not be envisaged for companies into the process described. For example: the municipalities' supervision could act more as a catalyst for green conversion, by changing the relationship dialogue, so that it also includes an offer to companies for a dialogue on green conversion opportunities, i.e. an offer beyond guidance on formal rules and restrictions, etc. This could be a fine contribution to implementing the government's resource strategy and, of course, it will also have positive effects in other areas. We hope that the Minister will be in favour of such an addition to the approval notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151506	Thank you to the rapporteur. And since the Enhedslisten's rapporteur does not appear to be present in the Chamber, it is Mr Enhedslisten's. I call Mr Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151520	Thank you. The bill we are considering here must follow up on a number of growth packages, and the Liberal Alliance is bound to conciliation in relation to the food growth package. When we joined here, it was because the agreement promised massive relief for companies, among others. in that companies no longer have to be dragged through the whole bureaucratic approval mill every time a little change is made in production. When we look at the outcome, as it is here in the draft law, it is first and foremost the digitalisation and approval process, as well as the notification system mentioned above, that is moving in the positive direction. I note, however, that it does not appear quite clear to those entitled to the hearing what is actually meant by a notification in the legal sense, or perhaps rather in the administrative sense. Can you complain, or can you not complain, etc.? I would also like to emphasise that one thing is to make it more flexible and simple to obtain a permit within the existing rules, something else is if you could get rid of some of the many special rules in this area which make it really difficult to operate in Denmark. And we have e.g. Is it a little unclear whether it will be easier for small machinery companies or workshops that have a spray booth or a small galvanising plant to simply enter the notification system or should they continue to be approved? I don't know. Nor do I think that it is entirely in line with the intention of the agreement that Danish special rules, which repeatedly and again undermine competitiveness, appear to be maintained. I know it's the old song again, but a growth package should give growth, if you may say so. However, we basically agree with the direction of the draft law, but we have to say that it is a step forwards of the mouse in relation to what we expected. But debureaucratisation is a matter of fact. It is also positive about the shortened processing time, but everything else would have been easier to meet if the many information requirements had been reduced. There is, of course, a great deal of information that is hardly used for anything, and the authorities seem to be able to make new demands indefinitely, which undermines the possibilities for a quick decision. That is some of what we would like an explanation for in the further legislative work; we do not understand that logic and why it is really necessary. For example, why does the processing period begin? not when the company has submitted the application? By small key changes we mean we could actually have a much better result, and we would like to be allowed to return to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151828	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219151837	Thank you, I think, to all the rapporteurs for a positive approach to this proposal. It is gratifying that we agree that it should be easy to be a company in Denmark. When orders tick in with companies or you get a good idea out there, yes, then it should be easy to expand and start a new production up. This is absolutely essential for Danish companies to be able to keep up with developments and also for them to be able to take the lead in the development of the green transition, which we are urging them to do. That is why we reached a broad agreement this summer on the growth package, which includes: involves a notification system for less environmentally harmful undertakings. At the same time, we must preserve the environmental values and strengths we have in Denmark: our clean air, our clean water, our clean soil. And that is exactly what we want to ensure with this legislative proposal: good and effective protection of the environment, without preventing it, delays the growth of businesses unnecessarily. A small-scale company that would like to expand its production risks having to apply for environmental approval, for waste water permits and for EIA screening three different applications, which often result in companies receiving three different letters each with their own decision. This is a waste of time both for companies and for the authorities. Therefore, we will now bring together applications for environmental authorisation, for waste water authorisation and for EIA screening in one place. We bring it all together in one notification system so that the company can now notify the authority itself whether it meets the environmental requirements. At the same time, we make the application digital so that it will be easy and straightforward for companies to complete the notification with exactly the information that the authorities need. In this way, we also reduce the waste time that exists today when the authorities have to ask for more information from the company. With the digital input, the company will be guided through the application process and as soon as the authority has received the digital notification, it can start processing the case because the company has provided all the necessary information. With digitalisation, we also develop a database where companies, authorities and citizens can find the relevant environmental requirements. It saves time both for companies and authorities, and it ensures that everyone has their cases dealt with efficiently and equally. The Government and KL have already agreed in June 2014 that the municipalities' business-oriented processing times for e.g.: Environmental authorisations shall be reduced by one third in 2016. The government is now working with KL to set service targets for how short the processing time should be. We are taking an important step on the way when, with this bill, we simplify the environmental approval for over 90%. of all companies which are subject to approval today. At the same time, the draft law paves the way for some 900 machine shops to no longer have to wait for environmental approval. They still have to notify their extensions or other changes, but they can start after a shorter period if there are no objections from the authorities. This is ensured by a new sectoral regulation with general rules. Then the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has a little to say about whether or not it is a proper notification system. There has also been some debate on this. For me, this bill is about making it easier and faster for businesses. Today, as I said, companies must submit up to three applications with a wide range of information that the authority will then have to turn into environmental requirements. With the new digital solution, companies in many cases simply have to notify whether they can meet a number of environmental requirements. So we move 80 per cent. of the environmental authorisations to a notification scheme, as we also agreed with the growth package in June 2014. That is also the answer to what the rapporteur of the Left said, namely whether this is in line with our agreements. Yes, it is doing so in full, because it was the agreement on the food growth plan that we agreed in April 2014 that we agreed there to launch a feasibility study aimed at creating a simpler and faster environmental approval process through the combination of environmental approvals and EIA screening. Here was the ambition, as was rightly said, that it should apply to four out of five environmental authorisations, which would then have to be dispensed with. But it was an agreement to start a preliminary investigation. Then there was the agreement for a growth package from June 2014, and then it was decided that approx. 80% the environmental authorisations were to be transferred to a notification system, and we fully live up to that with this proposal. And for the benefit of the companies, it can be said that, on top of what we agreed on, we have also chosen to integrate the waste water permits into the notification system. This is not part of the political agreement, but we think it makes great sense for companies because we are dealing with these three parallel applications today. So they approx. 5,000 less environmentally harmful companies we have must therefore use this digital notification system in the future. When Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen mentions the figure of 1,100, I think it comes from the fact that it was they who, when we issued the bill, were meant for an industry decree. So it's just a call to make a straight distinction. So some people here are getting an industry announcement, but the 5,000 companies are still in this new notification system, so we are fully living up to the agreement we have made. Yes, to keep it a little short, I would like to welcome the broad support for simplifying environmental approvals for a great many Danish companies. I have also noted that this is something that companies are happy and concerned about, in other words, that we can simplify it here so that we provide good opportunities for companies to grow and develop quickly and efficiently without damaging our environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219152429	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150219152443	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 24 February 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
