ParlaMint-DK_20150416095959	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister of Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill no. L 188 (Proposal for a law on citizenship). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). John Paulsen Paulsen (S) has announced that he wishes to resign from his duties as Secretary of State from 20 April 2015. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. The electoral union in question has then appointed Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen (S) as new Foreign Secretary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100050	The item listed as No. 10 on today's agenda, can only be dealt with in this meeting with the agreement of the Things. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100104	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100138	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100201	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 107 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100243	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100305	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 108 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100333	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100350	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 102 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100421	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100439	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 86 (V, S, DF, RV, KF and 1 SF (by mistake)), against 22 (SF, EL, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100514	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100540	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 100 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and ALT), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100610	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100633	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 108 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100658	Sir. Jens Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100719	Thank you. This is a case where I'd like to call for just a little bit of so-called snuff. It's a weird case, and it's been a weird process. It is about snuff, which has been a common, traditional tobacco product for hundreds of years. Since the EU Tobacco Directive in 2001, it has been the Danish position that loose snuff is allowed in Denmark. In 2012, the Commission sent a letter of formal notice stating that they believe that our interpretation is wrong. This means that for 11 years the Danish interpretation has been the valid one and the right one. At the same time, work was carried out on the drafting of a new tobacco directive and, in conjunction with it, a majority of the current Parliamentary Health Committee said: 'A majority of the committee consisting of V, DF, EL, LA and K considers that the current tobacco product directive of 2001 does not contain a ban on the sale of all snuff in Denmark. These lots consider that the sale of loose snuff is legal under the current directive and note that it is a traditional product. Against this background, the proposed amendment would be contrary to the Danish interpretation of the Tobacco Products Directive to date. Then what I am thinking is that it may well be that the new directive goes in and bans snuff and thus makes us have to change our legislation. I ask that in the ministry, and for once I get a quite, quite clear answer. I ask whether the rules for the sale of snuff are unchanged compared to when they were introduced by the European Union and therefore whether the new directive does not play a role in a legal assessment of the Danish snuff case. I have a very brief and clear answer: yes, it does not matter with the new directive. This means that there has been no change on the basis of the interpretation used by Denmark since 2001, namely that it is legal to sell loose snuff in Denmark. That is why I and the Danish People's Party are very surprised that the government has not opposed the European Commission's claim. That is why we have tabled this resolution in order to oblige the government to take the matter with the European Union. Let us then test if not the assessment that we in Denmark have been using for over 10 years is good enough. The worst thing that can happen is that we must subsequently take a third reading of the law banning snuff. That is why I call on everyone in the House to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416100943	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That does not seem to be the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101000	No amendments have been tabled, so we are voting on the final adoption of the proposal now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 30 (DF, LA and KF), against 76 (S, V, RV, SF and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101040	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101104	We are voting on the final adoption of the bill now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 76 (S, V, RV, SF and ALT), against 31 (DF, EL, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101134	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101203	Will the vote on Amendments Nos 1 to 2, which were adopted by the committee, or whether Amendments Nos 3 and 4, were adopted by a majority of the committee, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority, Enhedslisten, joined by another minority, Dansk Folkeparti, SF and the Alternative, and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 35 (DF, EL, SF, KF and ALT) voted against 67 (S, V, RV), abstained 5 (LA). The amendment has been rejected. The vote on Amendments Nos 6 to 9 will be taken by a majority of the committee, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance, on Amendment No 1. 10, adopted by the committee on Amendments Nos 11 and 12, adopted by a majority of the committee with the exception of the Liberal Alliance, on Amendment No 10. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 14-17, adopted by a majority of the Committee with the exception of the Liberal Alliance, on Amendment No 1. 18. adopted by the committee on the amendments No. 18. 19 and 20, joined by a majority in committee with the exception of the Liberal Alliance, or on Amendments Nos 21 to 23, joined by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101352	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101428	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case here either, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101500	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that this bill should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101529	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101553	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I therefore propose that the proposal for a directive should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101612	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101637	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101653	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101715	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101736	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101803	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by another minority (LA), and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 18 (DF and LA), against 89 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-15, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101904	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101938	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416101957	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (KF), joined by another minority (LA) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 9 (LA and KF), against 97 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416102045	Does anyone wish to comment on this matter? That is not the case, then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416102115	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we will take a short break so that the talks can leave Parliament before we go to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416102212	The debate is open. Sir. Karsten Nonbo as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416102236	I'm not gonna make a long speech, because we're gonna have to start building this bridge, and it can't go fast enough. There is something symbolic, I believe, by the fact that today, on Her Majesty the Queen's 75th birthday, we are dealing first with this bill. A great congratulations must of course sound to Her Majesty the Queen, and we could appropriately, at least in popularity, also call the future Storstrømbro Queen Margrethe's Bro. • Not very far away is Queen Alexandrine's Bro in the hope that after 75 years it will also stand as stout, strong and beautifully as Her Majesty the Queen does. For the bill itself, there's not much to say. I've read the hearings, and they sound pretty good. There's one little detail. It is that the comments themselves state that what is called Brovejen, the existing road, will be rebuilt or abandoned. This is probably something we need to look at, because I do not see that it is possible to close it completely. There are a couple of large companies there, Bergsøe and Atlas, which we must ensure a proper way of access to the area, too, so as not to burden the citizens who live there with getting the big companies to take a detour. But it's a detail we need to look at a map. It also says remodeling/delaying, and I assume that it will not be laying down. But a great yes from the Left, it is also part of a settlement, so a great yes to preserving the bridge. Another point that is also stated in the comments is that during the construction phase it may be necessary to implement changes or extension of the construction project. It is clear, of course, that such a large project needs to be adjusted. But here I would really like the Minister to say yes to the inclusion of the rapporteurs in the amendments that might come along with major changes. I suppose so, and it's usually a good principle. We are not going to sit down and regulate in detail, but if there are major changes, we would like to take advice so that it is not dealt with in the Ministry alone. One last thing and an exciting thing is that there has been a rise, and in many ways there is a so-called facebook group that says: Keep the existing or old Storstrøm Bridge. I have announced that it may be something you can look at along the way, but it also requires you to move away from the screen in the facebook group and go out and do something active, that is, some association work, and make some suggestions. For one thing is certain: the old Storstrøm bridge must not be shut down or demolished until the new one is in operation and there are both trains and cars running on it. Then you can see what the world looks like. How far have they reached, have they done something that can be self-financing? For then it could be said that the money it costs to tear down the bridge, one might hesitate for a few years or three to see what they have got out of their project. It also has something to do with the aesthetics. But one thing is certain: we cannot begin to support some groups and use the demolition money to maintain the work that they may have and which may rob the capital to be used for demolition. With those words, I would say that it is exciting that some people think divergently. You always have to listen to that. But you shouldn't stick them in the eye and say: you can get all the demolition money and then else start to cheer you up, and when you've used it, and if it hasn't been sustainable, we'll find some new demolition money. But I think it is an exciting project that I would like to give some impetus to, and otherwise I would like to express a great deal of support. It can only go too slowly to build the bridge, so yes from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416102700	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I'm guessing it's sir. Rasmus Prehn, a Socialist rapporteur, although there is another on my list. It should have been).
ParlaMint-DK_20150416102712	Yes, we should regret that on the part of the Social Democratic Party. It was actually our good colleague, Rasmus Horn Langhoff, who was supposed to have been rapporteur on this proposal that was delegated to him but he must have just been admitted to a very important meeting. In any case, as the Social Democrats' Transport Rapporteur, I would like to say that we think it is a pleasure today to take part in this proposal which will ensure that a new Storstrøm bridge is created. This is something that is absolutely crucial in relation to the great vision of also making the Femern Belt project work, and then we cannot live with the old bridge, which has been falling apart. We have all been down there with the committee and looked at the bridge and seen in what gross Constitution the bridge is. So we are glad that this proposal ensures that new things will happen and that there will be a new connection. With regard to the discussion about whether or not we can do something about the old bridge, i.e. whether it can be culturally involved in some way, I would say that I can easily understand the thinking. I've also been driving under these very iconic arches that are on the bridge several times. It's very, very beautiful, and I've also thought back to the very scenic film by Carl Th. Dreyer. But I don't think it's realistic to keep the bridge. It will be associated with very high maintenance costs, and we have ships to sail downstairs, where you risk getting bridge pieces in your head and other things, while at the same time the ability to steer through under the bridges becomes more difficult when there are up to several bridges. But if there are private people who want to take over the iconic arches, I'd rather be happy for us; that's an incredibly beautiful symbol. And it is also a symbol of the good policy pursued in Stauning's time, when the community was used to pull us out of the crisis and build large-scale construction projects. This is the same thing we are doing now with the Train Fund DK, where we have just been informed that the Train Fund DK will secure no less than 24,000 years' work. It is therefore true, really strong policy when good, strong, ambitious transport policy also means employment. Yes, you had to settle for me, but I hope you got what social democracy policy is; we are really proud of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416102927	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Kim Christiansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416102933	Thank you for that, President. Yeah, all right, we got both Stauning and everything over here, Rasmus Prehn. I just want to deal with what the bill is really about: building a new Storstrøm Bridge. It's been a little fun. For at some point not so many years ago we were told that the bridge was in a very good condition it could last for 50 years yet. And hardly had we been told before they found out in Banedanmark and the Road Directorate that it couldn't after all. So that is why we stand here and have to adopt a construction law to build a new bridge to 4.2 billion. kr. It will be a very, very beautiful project, which the Danish People's Party as a conciliation partner naturally supports, because we stand at the conciliation we are in. Then there are these new thoughts, as Mr. Karsten Nonbo comes along on whether to apply to the old bridge. Well, then it should be like a bike project, and then you could save the bike path on the new bridge, but I don't know if there's any time on earth. I think we should stick to the plan. There will, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned being a major maintenance cost by having an old bridge, and I don't have the same relationship that it is a monument to Stauning. So I can live with us tearing it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416103052	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416103058	Thank you, and so it is the other government party out of two who resort to reserves today for various reasons. The bill means that a new Storstrøm bridge will be built for 4.2 billion. kr.; the present bridge is worn out and cracks, so it is certainly necessary to build a new one. With the new bridge, the train connection from Lolland-Falster to Sjælland will be modern and fast and ready for the Fehmarn tunnel, which will tie Sjælland and Scandinavia together with the rest of the EU. These are investments, for example. The Radical Left has requested, so we will be very happy to give our support to the bill. Then I would just like to make a personal comment: you can say that 4.2 billion. kr. is a lot of money, and I think they go for a really good purpose. There are also other places that could intrude I know in some places in the West. But that is a personal comment. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416103203	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Anne Baastrup as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416103209	The Great Stream Bridge from 1937 can't do it anymore. It has always been a concern for me that we set up a new runway for Fehmarn with fast and heavy trains in particular without creating a new bridge over the Great Stream. Honestly, I didn't think the old bridge would hold that load. And then it happened that my concern came true, fortunately in time, that we could make a new bridge without bothering the Fehmarn connection. Now we are going to have the basis on which we can get to work on the very great work that is to build a bridge of this size. There has been a long and thorough discussion on the part of the Road Directorate, and during the hearings a great deal of goodwill has emerged towards a sloping roof bridge, i.e. a bridge with pylon in the middle and sloping roof from each side of the pylon. The local population found it prettiest and best similar to Farøbroen, and when the Royal Academy of Fine Arts agreed, it was an easy decision for the conciliation circle. One of the consultation answers mentions the risk that the water between the old, soon demolished bridge and the new one would blur and turn into a stinking pool. That is why I am glad that we have reached agreement on trying to resolve this problem as well in the implementation of the bridge. During the entire negotiation process on this bridge it has been important for SF that we got bike path over the bridge. It was and is not always an easy point of view to have when it comes to construction of this size, where everything speaks for speed and space for cars. Nevertheless, we have succeeded, and I think it will turn out that German tourists who wish to visit Denmark will appreciate this clear improvement in the project, let alone the citizens who live in the area. So all in all, SF is satisfied with this bill and expects many jobs during the construction period, not to mention the many apprenticeships that this project throws away. So here's another government boost of Falster and Lolland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416103355	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Henning Hyllested as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416103404	Thank you. We also think it is a good thing that we have chosen to build a new bridge instead of tinkering on the old and deserving. However, we cannot fully understand why unnecessary doubts should be raised about the timing of the completion of a new bridge. In fact, we do not believe that the time for the construction of the new bridge should depend on when the Germans have expanded their landworks in connection with Fehmarn and the line between Puttgarden and Bad Schwartau, including, of course, the electrification of this section. We therefore believe that the bridge has a value in itself for Lolland-Falster, where there has long been a need for a railway with greater capacity, so that there can be more departures, more regularity, shorter travel times, and so that more trains can be installed than the four that are today the maximum for the sake of the load capacity of the bridge. It is not appropriate for trains travelling from Lolland-Falster to be dependent on the Germans, and Enhedslisten will therefore recommend that the construction work be started as soon as possible. As was said by the rapporteurs of the Left: rather today than tomorrow. It is also for the sake of those who will be next door to the new bridge on Masnedø and on Nordfalster. They have a legitimate right to ensure that the construction period is kept as short as possible, and it is also clear from the consultations that, among other things, they have to be able to do so. Some residents are uncertain about the expected noise nuisances. The neighbors are entitled to noise reduction from the expected increase in train traffic, where a marked increase is expected in the number of freight trains, their speed and their length. We hope there will be no such thing as the consultation note, namely that who can get and who cannot get noise reduction. After all, this is not about that many homes. A large number of consultation responses express concern for the 400 m long dam planned to be built at a peak angle from North Falster, and it will not only constitute a severe barrier effect for Orehead, which is closed in, but will also give rise to the accumulation of seaweed and the like on the west side of the dam, as there is no water flow. These are shallow areas and smell genes can be violent, especially during the summer. It is already bad with the current bridge, but with the pointed angle of the dam, the problem will get much worse. In any case, that is what the hearing answers say. We think that the inhabitants should be accommodated and we think that a bridge should be built instead, just as on Masnedø, where consideration for the abandoned fort counts high and where the bridge starts 120 m inland. The additional cost of building a bridge is set at approx. 120 million kr., equivalent to barely 3%. I would like to make a few comments on the budget for the construction industry, and I am sure it is a kind of money. The alternative is that the entire area around the brothel will become uninhabitable due to noise and odour nuisances. With the new bridge, the two existing railway dams on Masnedø and Nordfalster will become superfluous, and it is planned to use them for 15 m high vantage points. This is an excellent idea, and it does not really matter that the old industrial society can be traced around the countryside. But especially on Masnedø, we find this somewhat problematic. Here, both the present and the new dam and bridge will dominate too much on such a small flat island as it is after all. Then it is becoming a firm and we find regrettable rule that when it comes to major works, people's complaints are completely or partially exhausted. It is possible that the Minister believes that this slows down the momentum of the construction work we have heard before in connection with another major construction project in this town. But that is the case, especially when problems arise along the way, and it is precisely in these situations that easy and inexpensive redress must be available. Equally problematic is the fact that the contractor is left with a considerable degree of freedom to choose materials, design, working methods, etc. It may go well, but it can certainly go the other way. There may be, for example: the construction methods are chosen which are not safe or may change the layout of the bridge, which is contrary to neighbouring or natural considerations. We think that when it is the State that pays and has started the work, it must also be the State that decides on such essential matters as these, while the contractors carry out the work entrusted to them by the contracting entity. That's the way it is, and it's a good division of labour, and we really think you should stick to it. Finally, it should be mentioned that a 2 m wide cycle path is far too little compared to what is going on on on the bridge: many holiday cyclists during the summer season, recreational fishermen throughout the year, etc. etc. Walking and cyclists should not fight for the tricky asphalt, and therefore the walk- and cycle path must be at least 3.6 m, as is actually provided for in the law. So we don't quite understand why it has to be reduced to only 2 m. Subject to these reservations of a greater and lesser nature, the Enhedslisten can, of course, endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416103908	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416103916	The Liberal Alliance is part of the political agreement of November 2011 on the implementation of new transport initiatives, as it says, and therefore this very important decision to build a new Storstrøm bridge. The investment will be of enormous importance locally and, unfortunately, has been a little shadowed by the even larger Fehmarn project in public. However, the two projects are closely linked. The new Storstrøm bridge, which we have to consider here, will mean significantly higher speed for both trains and cars, and when the Fehmarn connection opens, most of the international freight traffic between Scandinavia and Central Europe is expected to be taken over the Storstrøm Bridge. So this is a really important thing. The bridge becomes a so-called sloping roof bridge like the Farø Bridges, which was a clear wish of the residents we have chosen to follow. There will be a ground clearance on the bridge of 26 m at the sailing path and 50 piers at 80 m distance. At Falster, the landscape at Orehoved will be significantly affected by the creation of a 400 m long dam, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned, and about going off the coast to the northwest. This will, of course, be a significant visual barrier, and I am pleased that the detailed design will examine whether the dam can be shortened and whether it will be possible to establish more bridge-pillars instead. Much depends, of course, on the final price. I am also very pleased that the concerns of the residents about odours from the stagnant water between the two dams, i.e. between the new and old bridges, seem to be met, as we in the conciliation circle have given each other a handshake that we want to fill up the area, among other things. with materials from the existing dam where the top side can be removed to something similar to 4 m. Of course, 100,000 m3 of 10 hectares is a mouthful, but I think it will be absolutely crucial for the success of the project. What does it do with a new and beautiful bridge with improved driving conditions for cars and supertrains and a sea of environmental studies if all residents on the Falster side are to live with the smell of the very poor conditions for bottom plants and bottom animals in the stagnant water, as is actually explicitly stated in the legislative notes? We cannot escape the fact that this is and will be a major intervention, but we are satisfied with the proposal as it stands here and will follow it closely in the detailed design. The Liberal Alliances support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104206	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104213	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party thinks it is a good idea that the outgoing Storstrøm bridge, which is no longer durable and reliable, is now being replaced, so this bill deals with both the demolition of the existing and the construction of a new Storstrøm bridge. We'll back that up one hundred percent. It's a project for 4.2 billion. kr. for a 4 km long and 24 m wide Storstrøm bridge. There are also investments in road construction next to the bridge itself: 6.5 km of road construction and 2 km of rail on the mainland. And the bridge gets a design so that everyone is satisfied; it becomes a high bridge so that it can be sailed, as you wish, under the bridge. There will be a double-facing cycle path, so that that part of the wishes will also be met to the satisfaction of the citizens and the local area. It is, of course, a project which, overall, is of great importance to the local area, and there is no doubt about it. Getting to and from the area is getting better and faster and easier. There is a lot of synergy in the fact that we are now getting an efficient infrastructure down through that area; lots of dynamics and jobs, jobs etc., which, overall, will benefit a part of the country that would like a little more attention and a little more torn up. So, of course, we support the legislative proposal; also the compromise we have reached with one another, namely that the risk of odour nuisances is eliminated by filling up so that we do not have the problem for the citizens who might have the negative consequences. So overall: pluses, praises, acknowledgment, a good project, which the Conservative People's Party is one hundred percent behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104358	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104420	I would like to start by thanking you for the very, very positive reception that the draft law has received today in the Parliamentary Chamber. It is, of course, the implementation of the agreement on the establishment of a new Storstrøm bridge, which was made on 17 November 2011 between the government · which consisted of the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the SF ^ and the parties Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance. The bill provides a basis for building and operating a new Storstrøm bridge and demolishing the existing bridge once the new bridge is opened and it must of course be in that order. The new Storstrøm bridge will have great local and regional importance and is also an important part of the railway corridor between Copenhagen and Germany. This railway corridor will be significantly strengthened over the coming years with the establishment of the new runway Copenhagen-Ringsted via Køge and the upcoming construction of the Fehmarn Belt link, including the upgrading and extension of the railway line between Ringsted and Rødby. Once all the projects have been completed, we will have shortened the journey time by train from Copenhagen to Hamburg from today approx. 41⁄2 hours to the future about 21⁄2 hours with fast train. The new Storstrøm bridge will be the country's third longest bridge, which is why I think we have to say that it belongs in the series of major bridge constructions in recent Danish times. It is built as a combined road and rail bridge including a double-facing cycle and walk path across the Great Stream between Masnedø at Vordingborg and Orehoved at Falster. It will be 4 km long, 24 m wide, it will cost 4.2 billion. kr., and on land 61⁄2 km of new road construction and 2 km of railway construction. The conciliation circle has decided that the bridge should be built like a sloping roof bridge with a pylon. We also know this from the Farø Bridges, which is located next door, and with this solution the bridge will undoubtedly become a landmark for the whole area and visually play great with the neighbour Farø Bridges. The law also allows for the construction of a number of related projects, including the conversion of sea cables between Falster and Masnedø, i.e. Sjælland, and the construction of a new sailor to Orehoved Harbour. Finally, the draft law empowers the current Storstrøm bridge to be demolished, but only when the new bridge is built and put into service safely. I look forward to the further examination of this proposal and, of course, I am prepared to answer questions in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104714	Mr President, there is already a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104718	I would like to ask some of what I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, which the Minister did not comment on. This is the whole question of how and how to view the new bridge link. We also had to listen to the Minister's speech here, and it is also fair, of course, that it is very much about Copenhagen-Hamborg; it is very much about what I would almost call an inter-European connection, etc. etc. This is so attached to the Fehmarn connection, and it is clear, for it is also in, not the end, but so on back or forth, depending on which side you come from. But I'm just asking, where exactly is Lolland-Falster in this game? It's like Lolland-Falster's just a place you walk across, but Lolland-Falster's got to be run. And that is why I point out in the rapporteur's speech: why make the new bridge over the Great Stream dependent on Fehmarn being completed? We know very well, I would say to the Minister that it may take a very, very many years for the Germans to finish their landworks, their electrification and new runways from Puttgarden downstairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104834	As I know Enhedslisten's rapporteur's political attitude towards rail investment, it is nice to see that he is talking about it today, too, because that is exactly what it is, it is huge investment in rail upgrading, both in Denmark over Lolland and Falster, the bridge up to Masnedø and further up through Zealand and also on the German side. And that is one of the very good arguments for the new Storstrøm bridge that we are discussing today, but of course also for the entire corridor and the Fehmarn connection. I think it would be a little short-sighted only to see it as an independent project, because it is connected, and so we will have the biggest upgrade I know of in the whole of Northern Europe in terms of trains, and it is both passenger transport, i.e. passenger trains, and freight trains, namely green transport. And, of course, we have to see it in a context, but I must also say very clearly that even if the Fehmarn connection did not materialise, we would still have to make a new Storstrøm bridge because the old one collapses. I have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104945	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416104948	But why wait? Why wait for the Germans? After all, the Minister himself acknowledges that we had to build it anyway, if only for the sake of the people of Lolland-Falster. And that's exactly my business. So why wait for the Fehmarn connection to be completed and for the Germans to finish their landworks? Let us then complete that bridge as quickly as possible for the first and foremost people on Lolland-Falster. I would just like to take the liberty of changing the street and asking questions about the remedies that I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. I would just like to hear: now that the possibilities of redress are basically dropped in connection with the construction work, what do residents actually have of appeal options other than going to the courts and having any objections tried by the courts? As you know, it is very expensive and not in accordance with the Aarhus Convention and the sort of things that we have had a fight about before.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105052	I think I have to ask the questioner to come up with written questions in connection with the Aarhus Convention, because there we have to be very, very close to the law in it. So there I would like to have the opportunity to give a very detailed and in-depth answer if there is any doubt about these questions. Because if there is, we must have it eliminated as soon as possible. To the general point: Well, the sooner, the better. I think so both in relation to this project and in fact all the projects we have in Denmark in terms of infrastructure. The sooner, the better. However, the great timetable makes sense when we still have a meeting with the conciliation circle behind the Fehmarn connection and have a meeting with the German Minister for Transport in Denmark this September, and we know much better than today the uncertainties that still exist with the Fehmarn connection: how much do we get in support from the European Union? How's the German environmental approval going? How are prices being negotiated? After all, these are the issues that are still missing, and these uncertainties must be dealt with and removed. In September, we know the answers much better, which is why it makes sense to fix the great timetable, both for the Fehmarn connection and the adjacent plants, and so does the Storstrøm Bridge, and that is only an even greater strengthening. So that we invest so historically much in the Storstrøm Bridge, in the Fehmarnlink, in the railway, I think you have to be an unusual lot of blacksee to seem to be overlooking Lolland-Falster. On the contrary, the opposite is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105222	Mr President, there is one more brief point I should like to make. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105225	First of all, I am glad that both the Minister and the Enhedslisten say that this can only go too slowly, in other words as soon as possible. We don't have to wait for the Fehmarn connection, and I appreciate that. I put one question in my rapporteur's speech and I hope that the answer is yes. It says in many places that there may be changes, that it is a major project and that there are some things that you do not know and that are not entirely in place yet. So I hope that the Minister will allow the rapporteurs of the conciliation circle to follow the work closely, because some decisions can be taken along the way, and also ensure that we get the two municipalities on board at least. The residents, it may be said, have an opportunity to complain through their municipalities, in the sense that the municipalities also have to look after the interests of the residents. So I hope that both the municipalities and the rapporteurs are involved in this game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105321	Yes, of course. It is, of course, one of the good things that is about to come to a settlement, namely that we are helping to decide these things, and of course we also have the opportunity to follow it very closely as a conciliation circle in addition to all the information that I naturally pass on to the Folketing, and moreover I am answering all the questions in this regard, so that is clear enough. For example: I do not know what the technical term is, but it is a shallow area close to where people live, and if it is set aside, smell nuisances can occur and we try to deal with that along the way. It costs some extra money, and there we have agreed in the conciliation circle that we will meet when we get further into the project itself. It's just the law we're dealing with today. So I can give an undertaking that it will, of course, be the case that the conciliation circle will have the opportunity to follow it closely, and if changes are to be made, it is the conciliation circle that will have to be asked in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105423	Sir. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105424	Well, I just wanna sign and say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105428	I would also like to thank the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105449	The debate is open. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105502	Thank you. L 174 is about the government wanting to amend the law on freight transport and the law on commercial passenger transport, the so-called bus law. According to the Government, the aim is to strengthen the fight against social dumping and, furthermore, to promote healthy and equal conditions of competition when driving in Denmark with Danish registered trucks and buses. That objective, in fact, is acceptable to the Left, in particular to ensure healthy and equal conditions of competition. This is important for our transport industry. In concrete terms, the Government proposes to clarify the law on freight and bus, so that hauliers can only use drivers employed directly in the undertaking authorised for the carriage of goods for hire or reward, and therefore not some who are simply employed in a large group. The second proposal that is being made here is that the present system of lending drivers to other road hauliers should be abolished, requiring that this is where the problem of this bill comes in, because it is a problem to abolish the lending system. For bus hauliers, it is extremely important to have the flexibility to be able to borrow experienced drivers from a colleague in the industry in connection with holidays, sickness and seasonal variations within the bus market. With this bill, it's gonna be more trouble, it's gonna lose flexibility, and there's gonna be increased costs. This seems to us to be a very big problem, especially since there are already rules that, if you lend drivers, a declaration must be made that this is for collective pay. That's why we find it very difficult to understand that the government is going forward with this device, and it's more like shooting gray sparrows with cannons in this field. It must also be said that if the lending system is abolished, it will be devastatingly hard for the small Danish hauliers to be able to borrow from each other both in the truck industry and in the bus sector. Then you might ask: how does it affect the very large hauliers, those who have hundreds of lorries? The very large hauliers have a much better opportunity to move the address outside Denmark's borders, and we have already seen some people do so, so this instrument proposed by the government hits the small Danish hauliers, and it can be said that the big Danish hauliers have an opportunity to get around it. That's why we think it's completely wrong medicine the government's taking here. Another problem I would like to point out is that we see no reason at all to amend the law on bus and coach transport, on commercial passenger transport. As we understand the problem here, it is in the truck sector that some problems have been identified. Then why on earth do we have to go in and change the law on bus services? We find that very difficult to understand. On the basis of the problem areas I have mentioned here, the Left cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105901	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416105906	This is about the lending system. Now I am not a lawyer, and law is a very complex thing, I think, but what I understand from the lawyers of the Ministry of Transport is that the existing lending scheme is contrary to EU rules. And that, for example. in the consultation note, is that the driver lending scheme applies only to Danish-established companies, and then this is a direct discrimination which is not in accordance with EU rules, i.e. foreign hauliers do not have the same option in the lending scheme as Danish companies. So I see it as a fact that, as far as this aspect is concerned, we are actually somewhere else in relation to what the rapporteur of the Left says, and I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur of the Left recognises the argument that the lending system is contrary to EU rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110008	We do not recognise that argument. There is, of course, a general tendency here in Denmark to overimplement when there are rules from the EU, and here is an example of an assessment, because when you read the comments of the draft law, you can see that the word assessment is used. So this is something that we consider to be necessary, namely that this is something we need to introduce. But when you look at some of the consultation answers, where it is well and thoroughly argued that this is not in breach of EU rules, then I choose to base our opinion here, and I choose to base it on the fact that the abolition of the lending system will hit Danish road hauliers to such an extent, and I do not think that this is our job here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110051	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110053	I therefore agree with the rapporteur of the Left that there are points in the Danish reality where we overimplement EU rules. I agree with that. However, I believe that in this case what is being said by the Ministry is correct, so that is my conclusion on that aspect. But I would like to ask, like my second question, whether I have understood the rapporteur correctly, namely that, as far as the objective is concerned, in Danish registered lorries there should be drivers who, when driving on Danish territory, are also paid according to collective agreements, agree with that principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110128	Yes, we agree with that principle. For Danish registered trucks driving in Denmark, it must be so that the driver gets a collective wage, so that there is a level playing field. This is just a completely wrong instrument.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110144	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Rasmus Prehn as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110153	On the socialist side, we are very pleased with this proposal, which is, after all, the implementation of the financial law agreement, in which we were many good parties who joined forces to ensure that we should have proper contractual conditions for our drivers driving goods. It is extremely positive that we are putting in place a range of proposals which can ensure that, in various areas, the kind of systematisation and application of the rules that has been in place is effectively stopped. We in the Socialist Group are also pleased to hear the feedback we have received from, among other things. the trade union movement, which is positive about the means we are putting forward here. What is important is that it is the current Danish collective agreement rules that should apply in the area of good, that there will be better opportunities to check this out, that, as mentioned earlier, this loan of temporary workers, which may be in breach of EU rules, is stopped and that, finally, there will be better opportunities to withdraw a goods transport permit if it is the case that these rules are not respected. So there's gonna be a lot more consistency in this area, and the wild west, which has been a big problem for the whole freight sector, is being stopped quite effectively with this proposal. So, as Social Democratic Transport Rapporteur, I am pleased that we are now ensuring better opportunities to comply with Danish pay and working conditions on the roads when goods are being transported. Today is a very happy day with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110349	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Kim Christiansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110356	There are many positive aspects to the proposal to amend the law on the carriage of goods that we are considering today. It is no secret that the Danish People's Party wants a fight with social dumping. We also want the drivers who drive the Danish roads to have a decent salary. I don't know if this bill would add up to that, but it might do so in relation to some creative solutions, which at least some big hauliers have done. But I'm also worried about what Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen also mentioned, namely the bus companies, which have many times some drivers, they can flex around with and who can drive a tourist bus. Perhaps you do not have a full-time position at the moment, because there are also seasonal variations and so on, and then it is good that you might be able to share a driver. So, of course, we will ask a few questions about this in committee. So I see no problem with loans between Danish companies covered by the Road Transport Act that a couple of Danish hauliers can borrow from each other depending on whether there are seasonal variations and such things. So, of course, we want to know whether some exceptions can be made for Danish companies and then also in relation to bus companies. Otherwise, we are very much in agreement with the intentions of the proposal in terms of combating social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110542	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110546	It is, in fact, somewhat in the wake of the very last, as Mr. Kim Christiansen said. He is pleased with the intentions, but I did not get quite smart when I sat and heard the rapporteur's speech whether the Danish People's Party is in favour of this bill or against it. It is, of course, OK for the committee work to try to ask for it, but one usually tends to be able to listen to what people are like at first reading. I can hear and understand that you can be worried. After all, this bill is an attempt to get rid of the so-called Kim Johansen Finte, and I guess we're agreed on everything else, but I'd like to know if we are that purpose fulfilling this bill. I guess that's all that matters. Loans between Danish companies, yes, but then we are already out there where we say that we do not have it under control. Who's driving here and there and everywhere? And that's where the big, big trucker companies are, among other things. Kim Johansens, who has some completely different options there that we need to get rid of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110701	Then I'll have to see if I can express myself a little more clearly. The Danish People's Party wants to help combat the fact that we have Latvian, Romanian and Bulgarian drivers driving around Denmark in Danish trucks for 40-50 DKK. It's an hour. That's what makes this proposal up to. Sir. Henning Hyllested mentioned a specific trucker company, but it's not the only company that is. That is where we agree with the intentions of the bill. But we think it is a problem that we are also making it more problematic for Danish companies, and that is what we would like to see clarified. It must be possible to say that when companies are registered in Denmark and operate under the Danish road haulage law, you can borrow drivers from each other, because there we have section 6 of the goods transport law and there you drive on Danish wages and working conditions. So I don't see why we should ban that. The same applies to bus companies. However, compared to the fact that we have foreigners who are lent from foreign companies to lie and run in Denmark, we fully agree with the intention of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110808	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110812	Yes, but the bill says that in future you must be permanent in the company for which you are actually driving, and if you drive a Danish registered truck. It is precisely to put an end to this whole regime that you have all sorts of replacements running, too. Well, it doesn't just have to be, and Mr. Cole knows that. Kim Christiansen as well as I am, be foreign drivers who lie and carry out social dumping. We know that very well. And when the conditions of employment are unclear, there is also confusion as to what is being run according to which agreement is being run. We know very well that this industry, if any, is incredibly creative when it comes to circumventing rules and agreements, and what do I know? This is happening in an interaction between road hauliers and drivers, and I believe that, in any case, the bill takes into account part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110913	It could almost give rise to a counter-question. Soon there will be little to clarify during the work of the committee, for Mr. Henning Hyllested has explained how everything is connected. But let us take the example of trucker Jensen and trucker Hansen: Hansen has a driver employed on contractual terms. Jensen says, "You know what, I have a man who is sick, what does it look like over there with you?" Well, I've got somebody you can borrow for 14 days, and I'll give you an invoice on it. But the employment relationship is over with Hansen, and then I see no problem with a colleague who can borrow a driver for 14 days and get an invoice on it. And as I read the bill, you also stop for that opportunity, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110953	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416110957	Thank you. I would like to sign for the scepticism that I also heard Mr. Kim Christiansen is expressing this bill. I'm gonna start by asking sir. Kim Christiansen, now addressing Mr. Henning Hyllested's remark about getting Kim Johansen killed was shown to be the case, the words fell on whether he agrees that a small Danish trucker has difficulty in moving his address outside the country's borders, whereas a large trucker group has easy to move its address and activities outside the country's borders, if that is what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111039	It's always harder to set up for a small player than it is for a big player, but it's primarily about capital, it has nothing to do with this bill. So I don't see there's any problem with this hitting small businesses. What we are opposed to is the opening of a branch abroad, in Romania, in Lithuania, as a small or large road haulage company, and then using drivers paid on Lithuanian terms to drive a truck in Denmark, thus lending them to their Danish department. We agree that this bill closes to that, and we think that is a very good idea. We are not trying to close Kim Johansen or other creative, talented businessmen who establish themselves abroad. We should be very glad that some do. But when they drive in Denmark, it just has to be on proper terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111126	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111130	There we are so much in agreement and that brings me to the abolition of the compensation system, which is the major problem in this draft law. There I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party buys the government's premise that the current lending scheme is in breach of EU rules. That is the reason for including it in this draft law, especially when we have a rule that when drivers are lent from one carrier to another, it has to be done on contractual terms. Therefore, I would like to ask the Danish People's Party whether it is buying the premise from the government that it is because it is contrary to EU rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111208	Now I have not taken such a great deal of attention to that particular premise, but I do not think it comes as a great surprise to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, that if it is contrary to EU law, the Danish People's Party is quite indifferent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111222	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111231	Thank you, President. In Denmark, we have had a law for years that Danish buses and lorries must include Danish pay and working conditions. In the course of the budget negotiations and the debate in society, we came to the conclusion that we could see that this rule could be bypassed by hiring drivers from a foreign company or from a temporary agency. In our view, it is not reasonable to have a rule on Danish wages in Danish cars, i.e. buses and lorries, which they can easily bypass in this way. That is why we in the Radical Left regard this as a gap in legislation, and we want this amendment to close down. And by the way, as I also began by saying, it is also part of the Financial Law Agreement between the SR Government and the SF and the Enhedslisten. The Radical Left can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111335	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111339	Thank you. Now the Radical Left is happily known for being a relatively business-friendly party, and thank you for that. That is why I would like to ask you about the proposal to abolish the lending system. Does the Radical Left really believe that it is a good idea to take such an approach, which affects Danish road hauliers, Danish road hauliers, who need flexibility, Danish truck drivers, who also need flexibility? And do you radicals believe that this is necessary to ensure that Danish drivers in Danish trucks drive on a collective wage in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111423	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the Radical Left is described as a business-friendly party. We are pleased about that. It's also a target we've gotten used to. It can be said that it is a question of finding a balance in terms of being business-friendly and ensuring the necessary competitive power for companies on the one hand, but on the other hand also of being clear when it comes to ensuring that social dumping does not gain ground. And that's what we're doing here. And as far as I know, with this bill, we are also helping to ensure that the legislation is in line with EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111503	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111506	Yes, but if we are based on the objective of combating social dumping, and we agree not to do so in Danish cars in Denmark, what is the reason for abolishing the lending system, which is well-functioning and has nothing to do with social dumping, because the requirement for loans is precisely that the agreements are respected? Why does this element have to be included in the bill here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111534	As I see it exactly about the lending scheme, it is a matter of complying with EU legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111542	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111548	In the Danish labour market, the goods transport law is uniquely good. It must be understood that it provides that, as has been mentioned, lorry drivers must be paid under collective agreements in Denmark. That's incredibly good. That is why it has come to the fore that there has in particular been a single carrier, Kim Johansen, who has in practice done what I would call an circumvention of the rules, but I have to admit that the Danish courts have approved his practice. He has used a special company structure with companies abroad, which has enabled him to have drivers in Danish registered trucks who have driven a lot in Denmark, but he has had these drivers for a very serious underpayment, for example. About half of the pay, as the Danish agreements say. Of course, such social dumping is totally unacceptable, and it was also the reason why the SF brought this issue as a requirement for the financial law negotiations, so that we simply had to put a stop to this loophole in the legislation. There were negotiations in the autumn and a partial agreement was reached on the fight against social dumping between the government, the SF and the Enhedslisten, and we are very pleased and very pleased about this, and this bill then translates one of the points contained in that agreement. I think there is reason to stress that the vast majority of road hauliers in Denmark are following the road haulage law, and they pay according to the collective agreements, as the law says they should, and therefore it is clear that it is totally unfair to both drivers and road hauliers that there are certain road haulage companies that do not follow the rules and thus undermine the wage and working conditions of the agreements. It is, of course, an undermining which not only affects the jobs of lorry drivers but also affects the hauliers who follow the rules as they should. That's why it's a good thing we're cleaning up this abuse opportunity. We are also delighted in the SF that both the trade union 3F and the coachman's organisation Dansk Transport and Logistics support this bill, which we are voting in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111812	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Henning Hyllested as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416111835	The background to this bill, L 174, is, after all, an agreement from the Finance Act negotiations between the government, SF and the Enhedslisten, and is reflected in an agreement in this regard on strengthened action against social dumping. As such, the draft law follows on from the quite significant efforts undertaken by the Government, together with Enhedslisten and SF, in the field of road transport. The Enhedslisten is of course pleased to be able to make a significant contribution to this effort to combat social dumping on the roads, and after all, the effort consists of significantly increased controls, doubled penalties and sanctions for illegal cabotage, or should we call it pirate driving? You can tell by what we get from the police. Against this background, of course, we fear that a new right-wing government will do away with the effort or, at least, weaken the efforts made during this parliamentary period. That is why I am a little sorry that I cannot read the Danish People's Party's position on this bill in the first place, but I hope, of course, that the committee work will make it possible for the Danish People's Party to continue its support for the efforts we have made against social dumping on the roads. In particular, I think it is worrying to think that large road haulage organizations, which have consistently opposed the fight against social dumping, are trying, if I may say so, to buy their way into the democratic process. The bill here, as I mentioned briefly in a question, is a dispute with the so-called Kim Johansen Finte, which means that employees in foreign subsidiaries can drive Danish registered trucks for dumping, Estonian, Lithuanian or whatever they say, wages. At the same time, this means abolishing the possibility of borrowing drivers from one another, since only permanent staff in a road haulage company or drivers from an approved temporary agency can be used. Whether it is in accordance with EU law or not, I have no ideas or opportunities to judge, but I note at least that this is one of the reasons. This also means that drivers must comply with the collective wage provisions, for example, on allowances for drivers. overtime, about holiday money, pension etc., if you drive a Danish registered vehicle in Danish territory. At the same time, the draft law also means further control and stricter enforcement of these rules. I admit it can be difficult to control this area. It already is. As I said, as you know, the industry is very creative when it comes to circumventing rules and agreements. That is why it is also important to allocate the necessary resources to the police. We have done so through repeated financial negotiations • but also to the Traffic Authority, which issues the permits. I must put a little bit of wormwood in the cup: the bill envisages that the Traffic Authority administratively can revoke permissions. That is a good thing, of course, but in such a case, should a legal action be taken, it will have suspensory effect, and then I think that we may not have come much further than the old law. I can't quite figure it out, I have to admit that. At the same time, the system of fines is being abolished, i.e. the possibility of imposing fines for minor infringements of the law. Sir. Eigil Andersen and I have been in correspondence with the Minister of Transport about it. We've got some kind of legal explanation, and as sir... Eigil Andersen said he's not a lawyer, and neither am I. It has something to do with the relationship between criminal law and civil law, and then I'm just a big question mark and can't figure out a fucking hoof, you can't say that. But I would like to see some clarification as to why this is so. But apart from these very few and in fact untimely remarks in the end, Enhedslisten is certainly enthusiastic about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112352	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, whom I am pleased to have corrected his own language. Sir. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112404	With this amendment to the law, the Minister of Transport wishes to abolish a system whereby hauliers authorised to drive goods may borrow a driver employed by another carrier with permission. He also wants temporary agency companies, such as foreign temporary agency companies, to follow Danish agreements to the letter if they are driving in Denmark, as well as some specific control and documentation provisions. In other words, the proposal means that the Minister is crawling into the engine room of the Danish contract system on the labour market. It is not just the Danish system, but in reality he is also in a position to tamper with the employment conditions of employed drivers in other EU countries. I do not want to know whether this is formally possible, but in general we believe that we are in a slippery path here if a majority in the House is to be able in this way to defend the interests of one party in the labour market. This is and remains a bad thing, even though the government may be upset that trade union money is not a hundred percent targeted on the red parties anymore. It might be that this proposal helps to get them back, who knows? If the loan scheme is abolished, almost all flexibility in practice will disappear because the alternative is permanent employment or the approval of a new temporary agency. Both are the result of great economic and administrative burdens. Unfortunately, according to the trade association, the proposal will not lead to more drivers in the Danish agreement, but will simply undermine the foundations of other jobs in storage, administration and logistics. Danish companies will flag out or leave the goods to foreign carriers. We do not believe very much that the solution to these issues about wage differences is about us putting up barriers about Denmark and closing ourselves in. It won't go over, no matter how much we legislate in this area. We believe more that we are setting in motion a process where taxes are reduced so that Danish hauliers can compete with the foreign ones, and that is both in relation to customers but also in relation to attracting labour. For these reasons, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112632	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112636	What I get from the rapporteur's speech is, among other things, that it is evidently opposed to the provisions of the Road Transport Act that collective agreements should be paid. That's how I see it. And it is a very strange thing, in my view, that one can be against it, since it means that people have fair pay and working conditions and that there is fair competition where all road hauliers are equal. Moreover, it is a great protection for employees. If the rapporteur then says that some of this is an interference in the Danish labour market model, can one put it in such a way that the Liberal Alliance is guarding that there should be a right to underpayment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112728	Paragraph 1: We are not opposed to collective agreements. Paragraph 2: We think that here we are shooting grey sparrows with guns in relation to the size of the problem, and we do not think it is a state task to go in and regulate inside the engine room, as I put it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112745	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112747	Well, then, I think I have answered my question in such a way that I am right in saying that the Liberal Alliance is guarding that there should be a right for employers to underpay and thus put employees in a totally unfair situation in this area of transport. The fact is that today's rule says that wages should be paid according to the agreements, and when the Liberal Alliance wants that rule not to be there, it is because it then allows employers to pay less than what was agreed in the agreements. I find that very appalling.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112822	Yes, the rapporteur can shake as much as he wants and now wants, but that does not change the fact that I think that this kind of relationship should be left out of the state, and then the social partners must find the rules as is done in the other system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112836	Sir. Henning Hyllested has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112839	Yeah, it's a little like that. In fact, when you legislate in this country, you regulate relations between people in one way or another, and that is what you do with this bill. Because then you go in and regulate on some matters within a particular industry, that is correct, and it is clear that in this case there may be some big hauliers who will do all they can to circumvent the rules that may feel too close. But when the rapporteur says that we are all in the engine room and regulate, is that a general position of the Liberal Alliance? What about holiday legislation, which, after all, is also some form of protection legislation, and what about health and safety legislation? Is there such a detailed regulation in the machinery room in favour of one party in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416112937	No, I find that difficult to see. It is clear that there are some general issues for which we assume responsibility in this regard, but it is equally clear that in Denmark we have a tradition that there are certain conditions on the labour market that we are keeping our hands off, and that is what I mean by my rapporteur's speech here. I do not think we should go into the slippery slope, that every time we find a problem between the parties, we find it difficult to control, we go in with the hammer and strike. It's a bad thing to start a model like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113004	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113007	But if we now find that there are hauliers, that there is an industry in this country that is doing everything they can to circumvent the rules and intentions of the legislation that has been in place so far, then we have to go in and lift a finger or hit with the hammer, as the rapporteur says, so that, if I may say, we can protect ourselves against wage dumping, against social dumping, so that we can make sure that, for example, we do so. Danish labour force, or at least labour force, is paid at Danish level when the trucks drive in Denmark and in Danish registered vehicles. And then what we are doing here is not really so strange or so violent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113051	Every time we adopt a rule or a legislative proposal in here, we always have to assess whether we believe that it will produce any effect in real life, and I remember that Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself said that it will be really, really difficult to control these things. Well, we are in a balance of whether it makes sense in relation to the problem we have to solve or whether we can do it in other ways. So it is again a question of what means it is and how big a hammer you have to beat with to solve a certain problem. Because, of course, we need to have fixed conditions, including in this sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113125	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113131	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party is against social dumping. We are in favour of the fact that there are arrangements both for employees and for companies and that the rules that exist are complied with. That is why we are against social dumping; it must be stopped. Having said that, we are also aware that there are some who are creatively trying to bypass the fact that in the goods transport law we have the excellent rule that when you are a transporter in Denmark, it must be on collective bargaining conditions, that is, that there are some who challenge them. We need to be aware of this, and we would like to help at any time to see how we are going to deal with this, but we cannot support the legislative proposal presented here and the very complicated elements being put into effect, which is why we cannot support the legislative proposal. It's a fact that, among other things, it's... It is not possible for Danish carriers who have Danish trucks and employed drivers on a collective basis to borrow drivers from each other, although everything is in order, all formalities have been complied with and only the fact that we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113247	Two have brief comments to make. First, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113251	This is just to address the problem raised by several rapporteurs and now also by the Conservative rapporteur on this lending scheme. Well, if it was a very, very big problem for the industry and for bus wagonmen, one could not just say to them or encourage them to do so it would be natural for them to create a temporary agency with Danish drivers paid according to Danish conditions etc. And get it approved by the Traffic Authority? I guess that actually solves the problem in the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113329	In the Conservative People's Party we are working to make it easier, easier and cheaper to operate, and we do not think that we in Parliament should set up new forums or come up with new administrative links, new measures, costly measures to solve things. So we believe that here we must devise a method of dealing with things, and if we cannot do so, we should not blame, we should not impose, we should not impose new burdens on business. The transport industry is already very, very hard on competition, and new burdens will just make more people want to move their business abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113403	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113406	Yes, but the purpose, if I may say so, is to get the workforce under control. It can be said that if the bus hauliers or the industry make a joint temporary agency at all, where things are completely under control and where it is known that the remuneration, in general terms the working conditions, are in accordance with the law on goods transport and the provisions on collective agreements in the law on the carriage of goods, etc. and so on, it is really a very good, sensible, simple, simple safeguard against the fact that we have labour floating around which we do not have control, which we do not know about underpaid etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113449	As Mr. Henning Hylllested says, you don't know. And when you don't know, now you have to implement a sea of rules to make sure that it's not the way you might think it was. Well, I think alone it shows that here we are on a slope. No, it has to be simple and simple, transparent, clear rules, and when there are some who challenge the rules that we have that have worked long and well, then we have to look at how to get rid of them. But what is being produced today is bureaucracy, a sea of rules that destroy good, healthy transport companies' opportunities to exist on competitive terms in Denmark. Therefore, we could not dream of supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113528	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113531	It is always something that the Conservative People's Party believes that we should not have social dumping. It's always something. But then there is the question of this famous lending system that is being abolished and the law in this respect • and I am aware that there are some of the road hauliers' organisations, including bus hauliers, who are very angry that it is being abolished. The consultation note issued by the Ministry of Transport lists a number of legal arguments that the existence of the scheme is contrary to EU rules. As far as I can see, none of the road haulage organizations has contributed a qualified note describing why they have a different view in legal terms. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether, in the rapporteur's view, any of the road haulage organisations or others have made a qualified, well-prepared note which goes into the discussion as to whether or not the current lending scheme is in line with EU rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113633	I do not know if my answer is now defined as qualified, but when I relate to things, I do not see that we are breaking any rules. And I do not accept in advance that the European Union will come and tell Denmark that there are now some new measures that we need to adapt to. I think we have done what is right and I believe that we are complying with all the rules, laws and regulations, and then the European Union must challenge us if they really believe that there is something wrong with what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113705	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113708	I would say this in this way that I believe that if this discussion is to continue and I think I can understand that from the bourgeois parties it should be so that it would qualify the debate a great deal if there were a legal note from some knowledgeable lawyers who could then shed light on this problem from a bourgeois point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113733	Now it is the case that there are often different views and different legal assessments of a legislative proposal. That's what lawyers do for a living. I think we have found that at least it is my personal opinion that Denmark is over-implementing many things in relation to EU legislation. We Conservatives would like to oppose this. We do not want to be dumb, we want to do what is reasonable and what is right. We do not believe that the statements we have seen in this case are more accurate than those who judge anything else, and therefore we do not think that argument is valid in itself. One has to look at what is sensible and ask whether this is an approach that can be of value to the industry as a whole. Is it for its benefit? No, it's not. These are new burdens and it removes some logical and well-functioning rules that work today, and this means that two hauliers who drive completely legally and legally cannot exchange drivers with each other. The fact alone means that this bill will not be supported by the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113830	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416113835	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. And then I would like to take this opportunity to make some fundamental points about the background to why this bill is being discussed today. The aim is to strengthen the fight against social dumping in the road transport industry. It is important to ensure that all drivers who sit behind a steering wheel in a Danish truck or bus for that matter have proper pay and working conditions. As you know, the background to the draft law is the 2015 Finance Act, where the government, SF and Enhedslisten entered into an agreement to strengthen their efforts against social dumping. Here it was agreed that all drivers carrying out goods transport under a Danish road haulage permit should have proper pay and working conditions. It was also agreed that there should be a legal basis for requiring foreign drivers to pay their temporary workers in line with current Danish collective agreements when they rent drivers to drive in Denmark in a Danish truck or bus. There are four main elements of the bill. Firstly, it is proposed that a driver should be employed in the undertaking for which the licence was granted. The clarification of the applicable law is necessary to clarify that hauliers cannot use drivers from foreign subsidiaries to drive in Denmark in Danish vehicles without compliance with Danish pay and working conditions. That should actually be a fairly obvious principle. At any rate, I think that this is a very, very healthy and good principle, and it is a very, very important step. Secondly, it is proposed that the possibility of crediting drivers is what several people have mentioned from another Danish licence holder. The reason why this is included here is to ensure that there is compliance with EU law, as today the lending scheme can only be used by Danish hauliers. As a result of the first two measures proposed by the bill, it will then only be possible to use a driver who is either employed by the company which has been granted the licence or a driver from a driver's company which has been approved by the Danish Road Traffic Authority. Thirdly, it is proposed to introduce a legal framework to require drivers from other EU countries to comply with the provisions on pay, overtime, holiday allowances and pension in force in Danish collective agreements for drivers whose drivers are hired to drive on Danish territory with a Danish registered vehicle. Finally, it is proposed to improve the scope for enforcing the rules on the obligation of hauliers and foreign drivers to comply with the provisions of Danish collective agreements. As is currently the case for Danish road haulage companies, it is proposed to introduce the possibility of consulting the Contracting Parties and the Contracting Board on the remuneration of drivers. The opinion of the board is then taken into account in assessing whether the rules have been complied with or whether there are grounds for withdrawing an undertaking's authorisation as a driver's operator. The Code on Goods and Bus services is also proposed to be amended so that the withdrawal of an authorisation in serious or repeated cases of infringement of the provisions on compliance with relevant collective agreements in the future is administrative and that any judicial review is carried out in the form of civil procedure. This means that it will no longer be a condition for revocation that the infringement has been established only in criminal proceedings. The corresponding scheme is proposed to apply to the withdrawal of approval of foreign carriers. That, of course, sounds like a very technical bill. It is also technology that we are talking about here, but I would like to emphasise that this draft law is extremely important in terms of its impact on our roads. The aim of the proposal is to prevent social dumping by no longer making it possible to use foreign drivers or using drivers from, for example: foreign subsidiaries at lower wages. The proposal must therefore also help to ensure more equal competition among Danish road haulage operators. So these are matters to which the government and myself, as Minister for Transport, naturally attach great importance. At the same time as this bill I want to inform the Danish Parliament of the fact that we have sent a further bill from the Ministry of Transport in consultation, because the effort does not stop here. The reason for this further draft law is that a judgment of the Supreme Court of February of this year stated that the current provisions of the Freight Driving Act, the Bus Driving Act and the Taxi Act requiring the holder of an authorisation to comply with the provisions on wages and working conditions of the collective agreements in question mean that a holder of an authorisation can simply follow the provisions of an arbitrary Authorisation Holders thereby complying with the legal requirements as long as they follow a collective agreement, whatever the content would otherwise be. That is, of course, against the intention of the provision of inter alia. to create healthy and equal conditions of competition. It is also against the previous practice of the Danish Road Traffic Authority that an authorisation holder must follow the provisions on pay and working conditions in the collective agreements concluded by the most representative social partners in Denmark, which apply throughout the Danish territory. The new draft legislative proposal, which has just been consulted, must ensure that remuneration in the freight, bus and taxi sectors is brought back to the practice of the past. That bill, therefore, also focuses on countering social dumping on our roads. So thank you again for the debate that has been going on so far. After all, I note that there is a majority in favour of this, although there are also parties that cannot support this proposal, and I do of course think that is a pity. But of course I hope that the positive reports will be kept during the committee work and we can form as broad a majority as possible for this bill, because we therefore owe it to the Danish road transport industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416114558	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416114602	Thank you. The Minister for Transport mentions that not all parties can support the bill, but as I explained in my rapporteur's speech, it is of course because we want to make life easier for Danish road hauliers who work hard every day to get things running around and get the wheels running. That is why I think I should dwell a little on the abolition of the lending system, because that is where I think the government has a problem of explanation. It is well known that in the past, the Minister of Transport has not hesitated to challenge EU rules. After all, we have discussed this before here in Parliament, because it is often a question of interpreting rules that apply to many countries across borders. That is why I think it is a great many people who wonder why, in this case, an assessment is made, as the draft law says, of the need to abolish the lending system in order to comply with EU rules. In fact, I think that the government has a problem of explanation here, and at least something is being put in place that affects a lot of small Danish hauliers who need the flexibility of the lending system and who need low costs in the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416114719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416114722	Well, sir. Pihl Lorentzen says so himself, namely that the government and I, as Minister for Transport, are just known that if there are legal opportunities and good reasons, we will, of course, take the fight in the European Union. That is absolutely correct, because that is what we are doing. And when we then choose not to do this, it is because the lawyers in the central administration have considered that here we need to change it in order to comply with EU law. This should not, of course, be a matter for discussion with the Left Party, which, after all, remembers that we have been sitting on government benches hoping to do it again, but it is of course the responsibility of the government to listen to the recommendation made by lawyers and the DA, and that is what is happening here. You can choose two things. You can either choose to do what we are doing or you can choose to open up the door so that all companies throughout the European Union can do so, so that loans can be made from there, and then we will really open up a barn gate for social dumping. So that's why we're choosing this solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416114821	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416114825	But this is all about whether or not an EU rule is being over-implemented. It is, of course, good to listen to lawyers, it is always necessary, but I would like to know what the position of the Minister and the government is, that a well-functioning lending system is now being abolished, which is very much appreciated by the road haulage industry and which gives the flexibility that benefits the individual small trucker and that benefits the employees who work in the industry. For the alternative, maybe some people don't get hired or some people get fired every once in a while. What is the Minister's political position on this? Because it seems that you have just chosen to follow a legal interpretation. It may also be surprising that this rule is suddenly completely out of line with EU rules all of a sudden when we have to deal with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416114915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416114918	There is, of course, nothing in any way disguised or otherwise in this matter. So, this opportunity has been an opportunity that only Danish hauliers have had, and it has only been Danish companies. It is logical that in the internal market, for which the Left is a warm, warm advocate, as far as I understand, there cannot be such rules. That goes without saying. That's the whole definition we're talking about. So it goes without saying. You don't have to be a lawyer to understand that. I think that makes a lot of sense. But what can be done? And there is what I am saying that I think what we have done is sensible. And then I have to say that if you are a road haulage company, a bus company that wants to have some sort of loan for employees in the future, then it is basically the same rules that you have to live up to if you are to have a driver's licence, a bus driving licence or if you want a driver's licence. So you can choose to do that, and in this way this can be resolved without opening up a barn door to more social dumping, but where, on the contrary, we are taking some important steps to stem social dumping, which we can see is there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416115025	Sir. Mike Legarth for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416115028	But does the Minister not see that this is a huge problem? The government is trying to put forward a bill to address the problem, and when you do so, you are implementing a new rule that makes it extremely difficult to be a small, modest trucker in Denmark, who is already very competitive, because now, if an employee driver gets sick, they can no longer borrow a driver from a colleague. Isn't that a huge problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416115059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416115102	No, the problem is that the opposition, the right wing, will vote against this, because if there is something challenged by the small road hauliers in Denmark, it is the systematic social dumping that is taking place, where there are big companies wondering about this and who have been able to take advantage of the opportunities I would not say that there is a gap in the law that has been to pull people up to drive their trucks to a salary that is far, far below that paid by the small trucker. After all, this is what ensures fair and proper competition, where it is not they who have succeeded in undercutting as much as possible that wins, but where it is they who can deliver a decent product that wins. That is why it is here for me to see a proposal which may be of particular help to the small trucker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416115158	Sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416115201	Since this is what both I and the Minister are saying, namely that what is the challenge is that some people are deliberately and largely cheating and actually committing social dumping, we must take action against it and stop it. We agree on that. Let us sit around the table and find an intelligent way to put an end to it, because we have the same view: when you are a carrier, when you are a road haulage operator, when you drive under the road haulage law, you have to drive under collective agreements. That's the way it is. But then it is that when we have to fight against that significant social dumping, we are going to prevent a small company from running the company effectively and from making things work together and from meeting the agreements they have with their suppliers and partners because they can no longer borrow a driver from their neighbour. Then it is that things are going wrong. Then it is that it will be a rule tyranny. We have to stop that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416115254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416115257	Of course, I very much appreciate the rapporteur for the Conservatives and, above all, what he is saying today, namely that we want to combat social dumping. I'm afraid that didn't happen under the VK government. You can hope that the Conservatives will one day follow it up by doing something about it, because that is what is missing. We have here a draft law with four specific elements. There is then one element that we need to take on board because of the European Union, and then we do so intelligently, ensuring that road hauliers can still have flexibility and that we do not open a charging gate for social dumping. That is one of the four elements. Then there are three elements left. It is entirely up to the parties in the report and also in the committee debate, and I would urge that we then make it quite clear what we want to support, because otherwise it is just such useless talk that they cannot really use for anything in the truck industry, where they are fighting for their work every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416115349	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130004	The meeting is open. The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130034	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think it is a very good proposal that Enhedslisten is making here today to amend the taxi law. Indeed, I think it is such a good proposal that the government itself has already sent a proposal to amend the taxi law in consultation, because we were also very surprised, as Enhedslisten is, the verdict of the Supreme Court, which said that all agreements, regardless of their content, were apparently good enough to comply with the law's requirement to follow the agreements in question, as the law has been formulated today. Well, then, we are completely undermining the purpose of the demand, and I do not think we can live with that, and that is also what Enhedslisten says with this proposal today. However, the draft law, which I submitted in consultation, also has a broader purpose than just the taxi law, because it also includes both the laws on goods and bus services. This proposal must ensure proper working conditions in the industry by requiring wage and working conditions to follow proper agreements. The aim of the proposal is to maintain practice as regards the requirements for pay conditions in both the freight, bus and taxi sectors, specifying that for the goods and bus sectors there must be national representative agreements. In the area of regular taxi services, however, we see in the government that there must continue to be local agreements. There is no tradition of national agreements in this area and it is therefore difficult to refer to them. However, we have strengthened the scope for monitoring the area, as the government's proposals suggest that the municipalities may refer cases to the Contracting Board if there are cases where they have doubts about the content of the agreement in relation to taxi services where the municipalities are supervisory authorities. I would also like to mention that the question of the remuneration of regular taxi services is also raised in the consultation of several interested parties. The question is whether general taxi services should not also be covered by national, representative agreements. There is only the answer that I know there are no such agreements, and that will, of course, make it difficult to live up to this wish; but of course we will look at it when the question is raised it is clear. In short, the Enhedslisten and the government are perfectly agreed that something needs to be done in this area after this judgment, so that we can continue to ensure good and fair conditions for drivers around the country, and, as I said, there is already a bill on the way, which goes a little further, looking a little wider on the spectrum here than what Enhedslisten has here. Against this background, the government considers that there is no need to adopt the otherwise excellent proposal from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130400	Nevertheless, there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130405	It has to be very short. I am, of course, extremely pleased that the Minister is so positive about his intentions, and I understand very well that of course the Minister feels himself covered with the legislative proposal under way. In fact, I share the Minister's view. There's only one small thing I want to arrest in what the Minister says. When it is said that there are no national agreements in the taxi sector, mimists, that is not true. I have one of these, the taxi agreement between 3F and ATAX. So they exist. And they actually take account of the problems raised by the Minister in relation to the draft amendment to the law that we will see later. But that is not something I want to go into now. I just want to say that there are national agreements in the taxi sector too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130500	Thank you for that input. We will then take that with us and clearly dive into it. We'll have to check that out. Taxi is a different area from freight and bus, because there is a tradition of having commission payments in the taxi industry, and I am in favour of continuing this. It must be the case that taxi drivers have the opportunity to influence their driving and hence their income. That is the case today, and it should continue to be so in the future. Subject to that reservation, we can say, or we would very much like to examine, what is the situation with regard to the question of national representative taxi agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130552	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Henning Hyllested would like to ask again, and then it's a good idea to get in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130603	Well, I actually thought I did, but apparently I wasn't aware that it didn't light green. I apologize. It is just to say, Minister, just for follow-up and further information, that exactly this national agreement makes a distinction between commission pay for the regular taxi service on taximeters and hourly pay for OST services, medical transportation and limousine services. But let's take it when we get to the bill in due course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130631	Can we leave it there? The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130633	Should we leave it there? Yeah, I think we should, because then that's not the purpose we disagree on, but maybe some technique, and you have to try to dive into that. It has, in fact, already been raised in the consultation of the bill, so there should be ample opportunity to dive into it when it comes to discussion here in the Parliamentary Chamber shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130654	Then I thank the Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and that is first the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130710	Thank you. Thursday, April 16, 2015 is truly a day of celebration for our nation, first of all because Her Majesty the Queen has 75th birthdays.Of course, we should congratulate her here from the Danish Parliament, but also because today there is reason to commend a proposal coming from the Enhedslisten, and it is definitely not every day not to talk about every year it happens. This is a good proposal. The ruling of the Supreme Court, which fell on 4 February this year, has led to a very unsatisfactory legal situation, which is why it is wise for us to adjust the legislation so that it will be true that benchmarking agreements are the basis for granting public service licences, i.e. taxi services, etc. with patients, older people, etc., and that is something we control. This ruling by the Supreme Court makes it possible to say that a situation has arisen in the West, and we have noted that in the industry, both on the employers' side and on the employees' side, there is a strong desire for us to have the situation that we have believed has been in force for many years in this area. That is why we also support what the Minister has said, namely that we need to make this right, and we note that the government is on the way with a bill that we are looking forward to dealing with here in Parliament. Precisely because there is a bill on the way that sounds good, there is no reason to kick in an open door, which is why we choose to reject this resolution from the Enhedslisten. As I said, this is a good and positive proposal, but now we are looking forward to a genuine legislative proposal that we can deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130909	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416130924	I think we were all both shocked and shocked when we read about the Supreme Court ruling that was the way in the so-called Færchsag or the NORTRA judgment. The fact that one should now be able to pay on commission alone is a state of law which is totally unacceptable. These are not the conditions we want to apply in Denmark and, as the Socialist rapporteur, I would like to say that we are very, very pleased that the Minister has mentioned that there is a legislative proposal on the table that will correct this state of affairs. The fact that the Enhedslisten is now out here with a motion for a resolution where there are elements that go again may be a little wondering, because we are in the process of doing so and, as the rapporteur of the Left says, why kick in an open door? But it's positive that Enhedslisten is also busy with these. It is something that takes up a lot, and it is also something that takes up a lot among our professional comrades, if you may say so, to stay a little in Enhedslisten's jargon. It has filled a lot around the 3F offices, which is why I understand that Enhedslisten also wants to mark itself here. But the thing is, there's a bill coming up. We in the Social Democratic Party are pleased that we are dealing with this issue, that we are ensuring that there is a proper legal situation in this area, that it is proper agreements that will apply and that there will not be this kind of undermining of Danish pay and working conditions as otherwise would be. So it is really positive that the bill is on the way, and that makes it so that we see no reason to support this resolution from the Enhedslisten, which otherwise has a lot of positive elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131118	A brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131120	It's more for the sake of history writing. Now I would like to point out that the Enhedslisten was in fact waiting for what was to come of action by the Ministry of Transport, and was also aware of the fact that there were considerations in the Transport Authority and in the department about what was to be done. But we gradually became nervous because nothing happened and then we tabled the resolution. And then the minister came on the field. So whoever kicks open doors in, I don't know. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. The most important thing is that we get a legislative proposal that meets the conditions to restore legal certainty, and I am well aware that this makes the future bill so hurry for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131210	Well, if it's such that it's not an open door that's been kicked in, but about a loving kick in the back, then of course we're happy about it, and then we thank Enhedslisten for the loving kick. The most important thing is that something happens in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131224	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131229	The minister commends the proposal. During the previous government, the VK government, we were among other things. to take some legislative initiatives. It was at the time when it was called EP licences, in other words when you could buy a four-person car and call it a bus, just because the license plate had a different color. And then you had some really creative solutions in the industry compared to being able to drive cheaper than the cabs. We closed that down because we had strong restrictions on EP permissions. One of the first mistakes the Socialist Government made after its accession was to roll all that back because it was appallingly afraid that regions and municipalities would make a DUT claim, i.e. a claim for financial compensation, which I have never understood, because then under the old system they must have saved improbably a lot of money, which the government saw in negotiations with KL and the regions could have claimed back. So I never understood. But you rolled it back, and then you made these OST permits, permits for public service traffic, and that's what we're talking about here. So you're actually a little bit like you've made. Then you say that you want to set up a committee... we decided that already at the time... that you have to look at the legislation on passenger transport, and that is what you are doing now. But we support this proposal from the Enhedslisten. It may be an open door, but apparently it has made a little fut in the ministry. And when the Minister is praising this and says that it is also right and that something needs to be done, I would say that it is not a long time ago that we were discussing the complete liberalisation of taxi legislation, where the local carpenter could sit and drive a taxi on weekends, if he wanted to. That is not at all related to the fact that now you want to do something. What you do in the government is a little in every possible direction in relation to the taxi industry, I think, so of course we support this. It may be an open door, but the intentions are right, and there is a need for some to shout. We are happy to do this together with Enhedslisten in this matter, hopefully for the benefit of the taxi industry, so that they too can live in the future, also in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131447	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131454	Thank you. As our rapporteur in this area, Mr. Andreas Steenberg, cannot be present in the Chamber today, I will speak on his behalf. I will be very brief because, as several rapporteurs have said, the government is in a process of making a change of law which is precisely in line with the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. I understand from Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the Enhedslisten is also well aware of this. On the radical side, we want to help put things right here, and we also want to support the government's future legislative proposal and therefore not the resolution that lies here. So with that, I just want to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131543	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131553	It is a very important principle for SF that when the public sector provides work, it must be paid according to collective, nationwide agreements. This is true, for example. in the building and construction sector, but this also applies when municipalities and regions provide work in the form of medical transport and other services. We support the Danish labour market model, and this means, among other things, that the public sector must absolutely not undermine trade union agreements. That is why we are very much in favour of the Enhedslisten proposal. Then there has been a little debate here about the taxi relations, where the most common agreement in the field is the agreement between 3F and the taxi industry employers' association, ATAX. That agreement covers, for example: all licence holders in all major cities in Denmark, e.g. Odense, Aalborg, Esbjerg, Roskilde, Næstved, Fredericia, Viborg and all of Funen as well as a large number of smaller towns. Then it also covers parts of Århus, and it covers parts of the metropolitan area. So all in all, it is also natural, according to our concepts, that this is the starting point. The short thing is that we support the resolution from the Enhedslisten, but we are also awaiting the government's proposals. It is very positive that it also includes the law on the carriage of goods and the law on bus and coach transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131714	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Henning Hyllested, who now has to choose whether to share his speaking time. There's a total of 10 minutes. Okay, can I take the floor now? ) Yes, but then there will be less speaking time at the end. I choose to go down. ) Praise get the one who overcomes himself. Then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131802	On this motion for a resolution, I should merely like to announce that, of course, the Liberal Alliance agrees with the Supreme Court ruling, which recognises performance-enhancing pay systems. And then we are against the motion for a resolution. So we do not share Enhedslisten's view that this should lead to unfair competition and systematic wage dumping, which is close to absurd: when you get paid for the work you do, it should be an expression of wage dumping and cause traffic safety problems. I almost don't know what to say to that. That would mean that the hundreds of thousands of self-employed people who drive a van every single day would be detrimental to road safety. Not understood. No, it is a bit far too far-fetched, so we are voting against the proposal. So it could be done quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131848	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131855	Thank you, sir. President. I'll see if I can sting, so make it even faster. We have a resolution from the Enhedslisten and we have heard the arguments on that side. We have also heard that there is a bill on the way, which would then overtake the motion for a resolution either bypassing it or bypassing it. In any case, we can say that we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal as it stands, and then we can say so appropriately in a pragmatic way that we await the bill, which is coming from the government and which is in consultation. However, as the motion for a resolution stands, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131929	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416131945	Well, it's crazy, so authority-like you are. When the President calls you up, you do, of course, but yes, it was a little confused. I have to say, I'm a happy man. Despite the last two speeches by the rapporteur, I can only say that there is full support for the motion for a resolution, or at least for the intentions of the motion for a resolution, and so it is not possible to wish for much more, especially, as the House has realized if it had not already come to the attention of the House because there is a bill on the way that addresses exactly the same problem. It is true, as has been said, that the proposal was put forward on the basis of the Supreme Court ruling of 4 February, and it made absolutely disastrous any agreement and I would even say agreement in the goose-eyes valid as a basis for applying for permission, for example. to run public service traffic, OST-driving. In other words, what we so popularly call loop agreements without provisions on pensions and minimum earnings and provisions on overtime, etc., could also be approved as a basis for driving. So in such a situation there is some kind of social dumping when any so-called agreement made over a kitchen table a dark night between a trucker and his two drivers could also suddenly be valid as a basis for seeking a permit to drive OST. Let me stress, as I have also said in some of my questions or comments, that when we tabled this motion for a resolution we pointed out on several occasions that if the Minister of Transport came up with something similar or something better, we would withdraw the proposal. I have to say now that the Minister for Transport has put forward a bill which is currently being consulted and which will, of course, be discussed in this Chamber later, and that this bill fully, I would even say, meets the Enhedslisten's B proposal, because it is not just a change to the taxi law, but is also amending the law on the carriage of goods and the bus transport law, and then one can hardly be more satisfied. Then, of course, you can ask, and I think it is also justified that someone has just asked or implied: why have you maintained the resolution? We have done so because the small debate I had with the Minister has shown that there is a small corner left in the change to the taxi law which we would like to clarify. I think it is too far to get into the discussion here on the question that there is a national agreement in this area, that the national agreement that can be referred to in the new wordings that are on the way in the bill actually takes into account the distinction between commission pay, let us call it the ordinary taxi area, i.e. driving by taximeter, and then the hourly rate for OST driving, limousine driving and sick transport, and we would like that to be fully in place. So of course we also take the opportunity here to say that there is a small corner here. Then one of our own arguments to us for maintaining the resolution was that we would actually like to have the problem dealt with before a parliamentary election, and since we all go and wait for it and do not know when it will come, and since the draft law is after all no longer than it is in public consultation, one might fear that the draft law will not be dealt with before a parliamentary election, which we think would be really boring. In the light of today's debate, I am very pleased that we also maintained the motion for a resolution, because now the Enhedslisten has received some expressions of very, very positive support for what lies in the motion for a resolution and which is also contained in the draft law being proposed by the Minister. So we actually think it's really important that we've got that announcement before a parliamentary election, and you're gonna have to stop it. No matter who gets the power of government afterwards, you will be kept up of what you have said during this treatment. There is nothing else I can see but that no matter who gets the government, that bill will be able to pass through, and I am delighted about that, because we have then also received a statement in that way from the parties. So, as I said, I cannot really be more happy than I am today, and I can also understand that for some of the Left's rapporteur it was at least a bit of a victory to have to agree very much with the Enhedslisten, but there is so much in politics, and I think it is gratifying. So thank you for the debate, thank you for your comments. I look forward to the committee reading, but perhaps I look forward most to the legislative proposal that the Minister has on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132514	A brief remark from Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132516	I can't help talking right now. Sir. Henning Hyllested sounded almost completely apologetic when he put it forward, but nevertheless ventured the fur and did it. I have already praised this in my rapporteur's speech. I also mentioned the previous legislation, among other things. L 78, which removed the option put in place by the VK government, namely that in order to have an OST permit or an EP permit as it was then called, one would have to have a taxi authorisation after one to one relationship. It rolled the government back with L 78, and I can tell you, because I just checked that Enhedslisten voted for the roll-back, which has given rise to the fact that we have this chaos in the industry today with companies that only run on these OST permits and rewards as it suits them, using staff who are not trained etc. etc. I would just like to point out that the Enhedslisten has, in other words, voted in favour of it. At least I can sign that Enhedslisten has become wiser. It should not be lacking in support, even if it were to become a blue majority after the elections. We should be happy to support the Enhedslisten's idea here, because we have actually tabled a legislative proposal on this ourselves in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132632	I would like to arrest the fact that the chaos which the rapporteur considers to be apparent in the taxi sector should have been the result of the legislative proposal in question at the time. I'd like to arrest that. There are many and other reasons for this. We know that the taxi industry is a large area which is difficult to organise and which it has been difficult to organise. There are a lot of unorganised people, which also provides the basis for concluding these strange, strange agreements, which really have little to do with agreements, but where a trucker is sitting and agreeing with his own driver, then we do the same, and then we do the same. And there are road hauliers, and there are drivers in the area who bite their heads out of shame and who don't really care what kind of conditions they run under, as long as they drive, and if they pay the commission, then they can decide for themselves and so on. etc. So I would like to say that this is primarily why you have this problem. And then there is no point in the Supreme Court coming in with its judgment and approving the state of things in this way and thus supporting it. And that's where I think the problem is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132744	Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132745	Good. If not, sir. Henning Hyllested will take full responsibility for the chaos that prevails in certain parts of the industry, so I would like to know whether I cannot, however, get the concession that if we had had the old legislation, where, in order to obtain an OST permit, that is, a yellow plate car, so that you could drive without a taximeter etc., you could drive medical transports etc., then you would also have to have a tax authorisation. And is mr. Henning Hyllested did not agree that it would at least have reduced the scale of the problem a great deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132815	Yes. I fully agree with that. And I would really like to help see if we can rectify this, because of course it has limited the possibilities of making tough demands on these OST permits. I fully agree with that, so I would very much like to take part in it. I am quite sure that when we voted in favour of this at the time, we had good reasons for doing so. If nothing else, we had at least the reason why we had a government that we liked better than the previous government. So it has probably also been part of that tactic and effort, and I think that is entirely legitimate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132849	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132909	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416132927	Thank you. It is now evident that when you table resolutions here in the Danish Parliament, you get the impression and praise for the content itself, but then there are some buts It is exactly the same atmosphere that is here, because I would like to say at the outset that my position is that it is a good idea to extend the second stage of the Kalundborg motorway until after the intersection at Knabstrup Møllebakke. That's a good idea. That is why I am also open to looking at the project in future negotiations in the green conciliation circle, because it is precisely there that such a decision to extend a project or to set new projects and other things in motion is appropriate, and it is also a company of which the proposers are members. That is why I was very surprised by this proposal. But don't worry about it. When I mention the green circle, it is because one thing is one thing to be able to advertise what you have of attitude, another is to find the money and conclude the settlement. When you sit around that table, as you know, there are limited funds, and then there are many good projects, and then we have negotiations, and that is also where the Conservative People's Party also has members. When we agreed the project on the motorway south of Regstrup it was here this summer that it was well known that it might be desirable to extend the project further westwards. It is clear that it will cost more money if you want more road, but nobody in the conciliation circle was then ready or able to see an opportunity to allocate the more funds at that time. If so, this had to have happened at the time at the expense of some of the other good projects on which we agreed at the time. And I do not reveal any secrets by saying that the Conservative People's Party did not raise this at the time either as a great and strong wish there, and that is why I must say that, to put it mildly, it is a rather new way of conducting policy now to table a motion for a resolution after conciliation has been reached. Moreover, there is no mention of a penny in the financing of this motion for a resolution. I know that the election is coming and there are people who want to be re-elected, and some may not be so good readings and all that stuff there can be a lot of good explanations for it. Now we have this green circle of conciliation, and it's actually been in existence for a number of years now. It works in such a way that you are invited and then you take co-responsibility and then you get as far as you can. I am very much in favour of the fact that in many areas, not least in the field of transport, we must try to reach broad compromises, and the green circle of conciliation has already survived a change of government, and it will last for many years to come. That is why we must also have respect for the way in which we work. It also means, of course, that there are no free laps, no matter how wild you are to get a little voice in. So I actually think and I also have such high thoughts about the area in Denmark, the North-West Zealand area that you can quite well see through what is going on here. The Conservative People's Party has also proposed an extension at Knabstrup Mill Tray as an amendment to the Construction Act for the entire section south of Regstrup. In the report by the Committee on Transport on the proposal for a construction law, there is a majority of parties which state that the extension is a good project which they will welcome in future negotiations on the implementation of funds. In addition, the Vejdirektoratet will specifically look at the possibility of including options for an extension during the planning and construction phase. In short, there is a great deal of goodwill on my part and the parties themselves must be allowed to say so, but at least that is what I have received from them from the conciliation circle to look at an extension in future negotiations in the conciliation circle, where we allocate the funds that are available to projects with high social value throughout Denmark. That is the way it is done, and I must honestly say that the settlement itself was made under a former Minister of Transport. And I certainly know that the Conservatives know very well how such a work works. It does not work with unfunded resolutions; it works by working in the conciliation circle and standing by the conciliations that are then concluded. On that basis, on behalf of the government, I must reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416133454	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416133508	Thank you, sir. President. It is a really, very good idea to continue the project to another 600 m past Knabstrup Møllebakke and Knabstrupvej. This is also what has been argued with strength and with good arguments from the local forum for Regstrup, Dark Køv, Skamstrup and Stigs Bjergby and from the Knabstrup local forum, and we in the Left can easily see that. However, it is now the case that a conciliation agreement has been reached in the green circle between seven of the eight parties in the Folketing, and that is to say, the Left. We are a party that still wants to be a credible party to the agreement, and that is why we cannot support the resolution in question. But we have referred to exactly what the Minister also mentioned, namely that in the report on Bill No. L 133 helps write that we will look positively at what we can do to find the remaining money so that we can reach another 600 metres past the intersection so that we can create the road safety good solution that will be precisely after the intersection. However, as a credible conciliation party, we cannot therefore support the resolution in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416133635	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, and we shall go straight to the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416133648	It is not long ago that we were standing in this Chamber, and on behalf of the Social Democrats, I was able to welcome the fact that, back in June last year, we concluded a broad transport agreement with the means to launch another stage of the motorway south of Regstrup, that is, the second stage of the Kalundborg motorway. I have long been advocating that we get the motorway all the way to Kalundborg, which is why it is also a big and important step when next week we deal with the bill on this particular stretch. As I said at the time, there is no doubt that we all win on a motorway all the way to Kalundborg, because it gives growth, development and jobs, not only to West Zealand, but to the whole country, and everyday life will also be much better for our many commuters. There is great tribulation, and there is a great need for a motorway. For the same reason, I also fully agree with the authors of the motion for an extension of the motorway, because that is common sense. As recently as the submission of the report in connection with the legislative proposal for the second stage of the Kalundborg motorway, most parties also agreed that in the forthcoming negotiations in the green conciliation circle we should give priority to this extension, in other words precisely the extension that we are discussing today. So that is also why I have to wonder and why I do not understand that the Conservatives have the approach they have to table the resolution here. In my view, it is just a trick too clever when no funding comes with it. After all, not a single penny has been assigned to how this is to be financed, and yet we are talking about a project which we estimate to cost 49.1 million. kr. So it would be very nice if we could point out how to afford this extension. The Conservatives were themselves involved in the negotiations on the transport agreement in June, and this was where priority should then have been given to the line higher than that there could be all sorts of reasons for that, but it was not chosen to do so. On the contrary, the Conservatives had all sorts of other infrastructure projects that they would rather spend their money on, and it is quite fair that there are plenty of important projects around the country, but that means that the resolution we are debating today is too clever. In short, the Social Democratic Party agrees with the intention of the proposal, and this has already been noted in the report which has been submitted in connection with the legislative proposal for the second stage of the Kalundborg motorway, but we do not therefore support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416133907	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416133914	Thank you. Yes, it is obviously the day when many open doors are being kicked in, and one can best describe this resolution as a waste of our time. We all agree with the intentions of getting this 600 meters... that's real common sense... but where's the money? There we are, then, a group of parties who, after all, have made a contribution to the report on L 133 with a statement that has been mentioned several times: let us now follow this project very closely; let us put in the tender documentation, that we put in an option that we will continue 600 metres if we can find the money in the construction phase, and then let the bulldozers stay out there. We have all indicated this. I have to admit that, when DF was allocated a considerable amount of money for the Kalundborg motorway, i.e. a continuation of that work, in a late night hour up to the big green settlement on 29 January 2009, was not very much in support of it, but we got it. Because that's the charm of it, when you're sitting there in a little late night hour, you can sometimes get a little when someone has fallen asleep, but we got it. But all of a sudden everyone is totally concerned about this, and I shall not be able to tell you who has been elected in that district. But we can certainly see that there will very, very soon be a parliamentary election, with all these little stick horses riding around, and I would just like to warn against the fact that, when we make broad compromises, we all have something that we were not entirely satisfied with, so we have to make a resolution on it. Stop bullshitting me like that. It's an abuse of democracy. So, of course, we're voting this down, but we're part of the report that says we're gonna do everything we can to find these, I think it's 49 million. kr., so that we can meet the citizens of Regstrup's desire for 600 metres more and improve road safety. Because it's the right thing to do. But we need to find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134115	Thank you, and then it is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134120	Thank you. As our rapporteur in this area, Mr. Andreas Steenberg, cannot be present in the Chamber for this motion for a resolution, so I will speak on behalf of him. Then there is an election campaign; the Conservatives are talking about Nazism, and now, just at the eleventh hour, we have to get votes in the Zealandese community without the shadow of funding that several other rapporteurs have told us about from up here. The Conservative People's Party, as several other rapporteurs have also explained, reached a settlement with all the parties of the Danish Parliament except the Enhedslisten, a settlement which guarantees money for a stage of the motorway to Kalundborg, and we in the Radical Left, like the other parties, are of course also pleased about that. But now the Conservatives come back without the shadow of funding and will spend more money. We therefore believe this from a radical point of view, which I can hear several rapporteurs also agree with us, that it is electoral pork, and in many ways it is almost as serious as drawing the Nazi card. So the Radical Left cannot support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134238	That triggered a brief remark from Mr. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134243	Now I understand that there are many different things to be involved in the debate on infrastructure, but it has to be at the rapporteur's own expense. I do not want to go into that debate when it is so inadequate. Why is it that the Radical Left supports an extension of the motorway?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134303	The Radical Left does so because it is part of an excellent agreement that we have been a part of. It is an agreement for which we have found funding. As you know, this proposal is not there. I think that is almost more interesting to discuss, given that this is the proposal we are discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134322	Wasn't it an idea to get involved? When you walk on the platform here in the Danish Parliament and take the rough way you did here, was it not an idea that you knew what you were talking about, instead of exhibiting your total ignorance in front of the entire Danish population for rolling cameras? This is about the fact that in the bill called L 133, a motorway had been designed, but then 600 m was missing. After the first reading, it has now been agreed that it is a good idea to build them. That is why I can inform the rapporteur that it is supported. But that is something that has come behind because when we first dealt with the proposal there were no parties, and neither was there when we concluded the conciliation agreement that agreed to extend it by 600 metres for security reasons. That is what we can now see from the report, and we agree on that. That is what we have tabled a motion for a resolution on, but when we tabled the motion for a resolution, no one showed that there is complete agreement to do so immediately. So I just think that when you get ahead with big words and unpleasant things, you need to know what you're talking about. The rapporteur was just introduced to the people of Denmark that she had no idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134430	As I pointed out in my opening speech, I am not the rapporteur for the Radical Left. That is why I read out a speech written by our transport rapporteur. I can only relate to what we are discussing in the Chamber today. And that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134452	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mrs Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134500	I have waited until today's agenda for Parliament was printed, because I assumed that the Conservative People's Party would remove this motion for a resolution, because that resolution is completely identical to an amendment that was rejected for approx. 3 hours ago. So it's a little surprising to me that the Conservative People's Party doesn't just stick its finger in the ground and try to figure out what we really need the parliamentary time for. It was also remarkable that the Conservative People's Party did not speak at all at second reading. Maybe that would have been smart. Then we wouldn't have spent this half-hour that we're spending right now. Then I can understand from the Minister's review of what happened during the negotiations I was not even present at the time, it was made with a bypass that the Minister at least could not recall from the minutes that the Conservative People's Party has just pointed this out. It is true that we had a broad debate at first reading. I myself have been approached by local citizens in the area and by my own candidate for parliament there that there is a problem, and that is why I put up with it and had a draft report contribution that we were all getting on to point this out here. And there I hadn't imagined it in my wildest imagination about the Conservatives, who originally made this settlement. It was sir. Lars Barfoed, who, as then Minister for Transport, was in charge of this settlement in 2009. And then it is the Conservative People's Party that says, well, it may be that we have something a little bit of conciliation, but we do not spend our time on that here. No, we spend all the time pointing out to the people north of Regstrup that they have the attention of the Conservative People's Party. They also have SF's attention. You also have the attention of the Left. You also have the attention of the Socialists. So I think it's a little bad that we should spend our time here. We shall vote against it, but it has been adopted. After all, it has been adopted in this report that we have presented, and the Conservative People's Party knows that well. So I don't know how good a press you get from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134710	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134725	In fact, I cannot add much to what has been said by the rapporteurs so far. I have been just as surprised that we have to sit here and deal with this, and I am also wondering what happened just a few hours ago when we had the second reading of draft law L 133. As a member of the only party outside the agreements on this subject, I have, at any rate, followed the debate at a distance, and I can see that a joint contribution has been made to the report which addresses the problem that we think is there, and that is why I find it strange that the motion for a resolution is being considered at all. I expected it to be drawn, too. But this has not happened and, of course, it gives me and the Enhedslist an opportunity to say that we are against the resolution, just as we are against the whole motorway project. This gives us an opportunity to tell a great deal about why we are opposed to the massive expansion of motorways which is taking place in this country and which has been going on for many years. Because that is what we know, and we have highlighted it time and time again for more cars. It generates more cars, the more you expand the road network. It leads to more tribulation, so it does not solve the problem that is claimed to solve. It means more pollution, more emissions of CO2 and we want to move on from Holbæk to Kalundborg with new double tracks. But it is, like the road mafia in this country, I would almost call it, does not have patience, does not have enough time. You think yesterday's thoughts. You think in asphalt, you think in cars, you think in trucks. In the meantime, the planet's going over the edge, and you don't seem to care about that. So that gave me the opportunity to say, and the Conservative People's Party is really to be praised for it. This gave me the opportunity to say once again why we are opposed to the massive expansion of motorways which is taking place in this country, why we are the green party in the political landscape of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134952	Thank you. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416134959	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance would have liked the Folketing to have found money for the entire motorway section to Kalundborg. So when the Conservatives have now proposed more than 600 metres, even with better road safety, we have chosen to support the proposal. You can look at it in different ways in terms of legal engineering. I recognise that, but I see it as a message that it is something we want to do instead of getting into a situation where, as I heard from the SF, you say: we are voting against it. So, three hours ago, we voted against a proposal, and that is why we are voting against it this time. Well, it almost doesn't matter what we do here. Then we get into such a schism because one goes in on the other. I choose to look at it in the way we did this morning, so that it may be that there will be money left over, and then we would like to do so. When we talked about the Storstrøm Bridge, we were in the situation that we said: If there is room for some filling because of the genes we could see there would be down there, and when we know more about the money in the end, we would like to do so. So I choose to look at it the same way in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135118	A brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135121	I can of course agree with the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance on many of the transport issues, but I understand that we disagree on this. So, I think it is a good thing when you come up with a concrete proposal and promise some road projects that you would like to set in motion, that there is also some money to pay for those road projects. For how many meters you get for 0 kroner.? I'm gonna give you 0 meters. Is it not better, then, that in the agreement we have made together, we say that when there is money in the box, we are building the road that we can agree on is really good for road traffic, road safety, citizens locally and so on.? Wouldn't it be better if there was some money to pay the bill instead of just putting everything in place that there is no money to pay for?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135209	No, I don't think so. I think it is better that we say: if there is money, we want to be there. Now the Socialist rapporteur assumes that there is no money, but we do not know about that until we have got into port with these things. Well, just as we did with the Storstrøm Bridge, we say, when we get closer, we know more about these things. Well, politics is also giving signals, and then we've given this signal that we'd really like to spend the money on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135235	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135237	That is exactly what we have done in the report. We have widely agreed that the box is empty now here. It is a fact that there is no more money in the green settlement circle, because we have spent all of them on all sorts of really good projects; so there is no money in that box but that when there is money in it, we can build it. For these 600 good meters, we need 49.1 million. kr. We can't do it for $0, we need $49.1 million. kr. So when that money's in the box, we can build it. Is it not very good that we have agreed on this in the report? It is strange, then, in relation to a motion for a resolution, in principle, to promise to set construction in motion when there is no one to pay the bill. I didn't think that the Liberal Alliance was the kind of guy who was gonna run off the tab.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135321	We are certainly not running from any bill. But we do think that politics is also giving signals. And whether the signal is given twice by means of a contribution to the report and by means of a motion for a resolution is something political, technical teasing, as we have also heard from the platform. That is the more it has been about when you have heard what the rapporteurs have said. We have then chosen it is a choice that can be made, and we can also make the opposite choice, because we are actually reasonably in agreement with prioritising this in this situation to say that there is now a motion for a resolution in which one has fallen over the other and that the signal is the important one. And then you can always discuss whether the money is there or not. Of course, we should not spend money that is not there; that goes without saying. But I also said a moment ago that it could be that things are going as with the Storstrøm Bridge: when we reach port, there is some money. After all, we do not know how these invitations to tender are going to come out, and that is always the case with major infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135410	Mrs Baastrup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135413	What is the difference between the signal that lies in the contribution to the report? I understand that the Liberal Alliance was involved in the contribution to the report? which actually says that the Road Directorate must start preparing everything, and then when you start building, you have to be ready to fill up, and then this motion for a resolution? I think the Liberal Alliance is part of this green settlement circle, I think I feel that the Liberal Alliance feels that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135450	I guess I feel like the Liberal Alliance might feel like they're in the transport contract. What kind of rhetoric is that? I don't know what to say to that. Well, either you're in a settlement or not, it's not a question of feeling whether you're in a settlement. That should be my comment on that strange question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135507	Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135509	So I ask the direct question: what is the difference between the contribution of the report from the Committee on Transport and then this motion for a resolution? What's the difference? And the next question, I don't know, about Mr. Villum Christensen remembers: Is the Liberal Alliance in the green circle or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135533	I negotiated myself in the green conciliation circle in 2009, so I know we're in it. I also assume that is why we are invited to the meetings when the Minister convenes. Once again, it is a very strange question that you have to answer whether you are a member of a conciliation group. Is that what we need to spend our time on here? More specifically, I would like to say that this is essentially the same thing we are talking about. We want to do these things, I can hear that around the Chamber, and all the other things are just such political tricks that people are probably not so interested in. Now we'll have the opportunity to say it twice instead of once. That's why we've chosen this position.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135608	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I will give the floor to Mr. Mike Legarth, who is both rapporteur for the proposers and for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135624	Thank you, sir. President. It has been interesting to watch this debate on live television, and when the people out there call it a circus, a theatre, a kindergarten, yes, then the Assembly Hall has managed to live up to it. Come on! Totally crazy! Otherwise clever, competent rapporteurs have gone to the platform and, in my view, have said the strangest things about the strangest things and we will do so now. This proposal is a motion for a resolution because we, as Conservatives, have tabled it, and we have done so as a follow-up to Bill No. L 133, which deals with this highway. When we had to deal with it at first reading, there had been a hearing reply, and we could listen to the local people out there, that there was a great deal of concern about whether this motorway ended in the wrong place. There would be a distance immediately after the end of the motorway, where road users would have to go fast, because there was a crossroads and there was a fear that there would be some unfortunate traffic situations there. And when we got it introduced, we could see that it was right. It is true that this is an issue that we should have taken more seriously in conciliation. So we were now in a situation where a legislative proposal had been tabled which could not fulfil this wish, as politicians we actually agreed that we should have done. Then, immediately after the first reading, we tabled a motion for a resolution stating that we in the Conservatives support the extension of the road by 600 metres in draft law L 133, thereby eliminating the risk. Common sense! So there must be someone sitting there looking down at the table, and I have to ask: is there anyone who may object to a political party using its entirely formal right to announce their political position in the Parliamentary Assembly? In the Assembly Hall, girls and boys, I refuse to say ladies and men. How can anyone have a critical attitude that a party is crippling its political path? This isn't part of the settlement. We have, yes, made an agreement on the bill, but this is not part of the settlement. It is outside the conciliation, and now we are asking for a decision in principle to include it, and if we can then agree to bring it back in the conciliation, that is fine. This is a political indication that if anyone wants to be a part of it, we are involved and we are involved in finding the funding, as Mr. Mr Villum Christensen said quite correctly up here from the platform, and I fully agree with everything Mr. Villum Christensen said; for once, 100%. alliance between the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. This isn't supposed to be about some mishmash, mud-throwing, butt-boov, I told you who first. When the first reading took place here in Parliament, no decision had been taken that this money should be found and that this extra section of the motorway should be built. That is why we tabled the motion for a resolution. A committee work has now been carried out in which, even though you were under a lot of pressure, you could well have seen that there was real common sense in the fact that you should have done so when you were negotiating. Now we have agreed that it must be done and it is written into a report. Should that make us give up our mark that this is important to us and that the first money found in the conciliation circle will be spent on this project? No, of course not. That's why I'm a politician. It's to know what I mean. And the citizens need to know what they get if they vote for me. I'm not elected to Zealand, I have no local interest in that matter at all. I just think that is common sense and that is why we have argued as we have. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135955	A brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416135959	Sir. Mike Legarth is talking about sending signals and that this should be a mark and that we should finally not take it too seriously. But this is the Parliament Hall... it's not some assembly house or a place where you can knock out your arms. That's the Parliamentary Chamber, I'd like to say to Mr. Mike Legarth, and the things we decide here are going to have meaning out in reality. So when you make a resolution that is not financed with a single penny, it is not something we can take seriously. It is clearly politically stated that as soon as there is money in the box, there is a large, broad majority who would like to give priority to the 600 metres. It costs 49.1 million. kr. kr. When that money is there, there is a broad political will to build these 600 metres that are needed and that we can quickly agree on the need. Would it not be more serious if the Conservative People's Party had financed their proposals, or if they could not find money for it, they would have drawn it and just accepted the report that has been made, that is to say, that as soon as there is money for it, we are building?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140115	Then we are back in youth policy, pretending not to hear what is being said when we are debating. We take the floor and then we say something like it's a completely different world we're in. We have not listened at all, we have not reflected on what the other side has said. Well, why don't we get over it? And for the whole talking thing, it's not parrots you say talking and people talking? Well, I said quite clearly that the first money that comes back in the Infrastructure Fund I assume that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, who knows the conditions, knows that there's going to be backflows... we think we should be used for this project. If we cannot agree on this, we can go out and find the money, new money, somewhere else and bring them in if that is what is being asked. This is a political priority, and I explained it in detail in my opening speech, but now I was given the opportunity to say it again. We are not proposing anything that we do not finance. We will always make sure that we have a name for what we are proposing to pay for. This is how we work in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140219	Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140222	I do not think there is any reason for us here in the Assembly to speak disparagingly to each other on the basis of what age we are or what sex we have or other things. I just think we should talk to each other with respect. In any case, I think that will benefit the political debate. And whether you have been in youth policy or not, in fact, the matter is irrelevant in this context. I see a resolution from the Conservative People's Party, and I see it also in local media, etc., where arms are knocked out and said: look here, we are some who act; we want it. And then, on occasion, you can make out who it is that does not vote in favour of your motion for a resolution. But what remains to be seen is that there is not a penny financed in your motion for a resolution, and that is not a serious way of conducting politics. Now I don't know if Mr. Mike Legarth knows a great deal about the West Zealand situation, but I can say that the price on the West Zealand road is about the same as in the rest of the country, which means you can't get 600 m for 0 DKK. It costs 49.1 million. kr., and it would be very nice if we could pay the bill when it arrives. We agree that we want to, but we have to have the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140330	Excuse me, but did we not, in the debate with each other again, fail to respect what we each say? Have I not just informed and explained the retreat which is coming and which will then have to be disposed of afterwards? That is how we work in this conciliation circle; that is how we get new money, that is when there is a return from projects that have been initiated. And if there's money left over, they'll come back, and then they'll be committed. That's how it is. And now we see in the report that there is a consensus that we actually have to find money for this 600 extra meters, so that we avoid that risk situation. And then we agree that the first money we find goes to it. That is what we have been saying all along, and it is part of our resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140410	Mrs. Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140412	So I would like to ask: what is the difference between the contribution of the report and the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140419	After all, it is Mrs Anne Baastrup who cares a lot about what the difference is. It's not something that concerns me. What concerns me is to state what the Conservative People's Party thinks. We believe that this is outside what has been agreed in the conciliation circle, because there is no 600 m extra motorway. We then put forward a political view that we should take that into account. We have then tabled a motion for a resolution on this immediately after the first reading, on which it was not included. It's simple politics. Then Mrs Anne Baastrup can define to herself what the difference is. What is important to me is that we maintain our desire to build the 600 metres, and on the first occasion we will seek support for it. At the same time, we support the wording which, with a report in the meantime, has been incorporated into the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140507	Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140508	I can see that Mr. Mike Legarth believes that the Conservatives are still in the green circle because Mr. Mike Legarth is counting on it's backflow from there to fund these 600 yards. Sir. Mike Legarth is also included in the contribution to the report, I must understand, even though it is a little cryptic. Sir. Mike Legarth also proposes an amendment. Sir. In addition, Mike Legarth is tabling a motion for a resolution which, on the same day as the amendment is rejected, is to be dealt with in this Chamber. How does Mr. Mike Legarth himself that the Conservatives' respect for the work of the Danish Parliament is actually?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140542	All excellent, no conflict at all, no problems at all. In the meantime, when something similar arises from the resolution tabled by the Conservative People's Party, we naturally support it. The basic idea is the same. But that does not change the fact that we have an indication that on the conservative political menu there is 600 m extra motorway around Regstrup. That's quite fair. That's a point of view. Others think other strange things. This is basically just the Conservative People's Party's point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140617	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140636	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416140659	Then we will once again be discussing the guilt of the Parliamentary Assembly. It is no more than a month since we last discussed a proposal from the Conservatives, possibly a marker. Conservatives feel it is a pity for the landowners that the landguilt is increasing in certain areas of the country and suggest, without taking account of the Danish economy, that the landguilt be frozen. Now the Enhedslisten has perhaps a bit surprisingly, I think, signed up in the choir of parties that think that the ground blame challenges the landowners, albeit with a more limited proposal than the Conservatives. For the Enhedslisten proposes that low-income citizens should be able to freeze the ground debt, just as pensioners and pensioners have access to today. It is of course generally commendable that the Enhedslisten, unlike the Conservatives, will focus on helping low-income citizens. However, I think that the Enhedslisten is a little beside the objective of the proposal, because it can hardly deliver what it promises, namely to help those who are worst off. Firstly, the proposal applies only to homeowners. I do not think that it is possible to do so per year. definition can say that the homeowners are the most vulnerable group in Danish society, and therefore also not that they should be at the front of the queue to receive help from the public. After all, it takes shoulders of a certain width, if I may say so, to become a homeowner in today's Denmark. Nor can it be reasonable for the unemployed or those with low incomes in owner-occupied housing to be better placed than the unemployed in tenant housing, and that would be the consequence of the proposal. After all, owners and shareholders do not have the opportunity to freeze the land debt that they indirectly pay through the rent and the housing tax. Secondly, Enhedslisten's proposal will only be of benefit to the group of homeowners who have a free value, as in the applicable law on which Enhedslisten's proposal is based, it is a prerequisite for freezing the ground debt. This is, of course, due to the fact that the municipality must have security for its loan. The proposal therefore seems to favour a very specific group, although not the group with the highest incomes and wealth, but certainly not the most disadvantaged citizens. This alone will be of some free value to homeowners, and they do not belong to the most disadvantaged in our society, regardless of any reduction in income. It must be the case that if you buy your own home, you must also bear the cost of it. After all, it is a condition for all homeowners, regardless of income, that if their situation changes significantly, they may be forced to consider their situation. This has always been the case, and it will probably continue to be so. At any rate, we risk that some citizens will buy for expensive housing if there is an expectation that the government will keep its hands on one's housing if the income base changes. Thirdly, the Enhedslisten proposal would be a breach of one of the principles in our housing legislation that homeowners who are not pensioners cannot obtain housing support. This principle applies both in the law on individual housing aid and in the law on loans for the payment of property taxes, and I see no reason to change that. Where pensioners can either obtain housing loans or loans to pay property taxes, this is due to the fact that their situation is different. Here there is a special consideration to be given to people who, after a long working life, would like to continue living in their former homes, but cannot finance it on an ongoing basis. This will, of course, most often be the result of a substantial and permanent reduction in their income when they leave the labour market. As far as the economic consequences of the proposal are concerned, Enhedslisten tries to tone down the economic importance of the proposal by emphasising that this is not a tax relief but merely an opportunity to postpone the tax on mortgage property. This is, of course, true in the long term, but it does not change the fact that during a longer transition period the proposal will become an economic burden for the municipalities. The Enhedslisten apparently overlooks the fact that the root cause that is being paid out here and now is being used for the common goods that we want to give priority to in society. There will be no income, even if it comes back at a later date. So it is going to go beyond some somewhere else that the funds are not available. It will be the case that municipalities with a relatively large number of citizens living in their own homes have low income and yet some free value will have the relatively highest cost of loans for the payment of land debts. If we are not to weaken the financial balance of the municipalities, then the municipalities will be forced either to reduce public spending or to increase taxes either by increasing taxes on labour or on land. That is why I have to admit that I have little difficulty in understanding that Enhedslisten can accept that some municipalities must be pushed into that priority in order to accommodate a limited circle of homeowners. Finally, I would like to point out that, should the proposal be adopted, the administrative burden on local authorities will be increased. The Enhedslisten's proposal is far more complex, purely administrative, than the current system of freezing the basic debt of pensioners and beneficiaries of early retirement. After all, it is only the status of the person at the time when the ground debt becomes payable that determines whether the ground debt can be frozen. The Enhedslisten's proposal is based on an income concept which means that access to the freezing of the land debt will have to be re-evaluated by the increase in income, and this will therefore entail the risk of loans being granted for the payment of land debts and that the municipalities will pay registration fees for the issue of indemnification notes, which are subsequently found to be unsubstantiated. That's unfortunate. In this situation, should the owner repay his loan and pay the municipality's cost of registration fees? The Enhedslisten's proposal will undoubtedly raise more questions about how to regulate the freezing of land due to changes in revenue. One is therefore certain, and that is that the proposal will help to increase bureaucracy and the costs resulting from it. Thus, after an overall balance, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141220	Sir. Frank Aaen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141225	Now you could expect the Minister to have read the proposal that is being commented on, including for example. We're not gonna solve all the problems on the housing market with this proposal. We have another proposal, both for tenants and for those whose houses go directly to foreclosure, that is to say, who are very disadvantaged. So we have other suggestions. This is just one suggestion. What I do not think the Minister addresses at all in his reply is that there are therefore people who are experiencing a dramatic increase in their basic guilt. They may at the same time have become unemployed and have no prospect of getting to work. They have also lost their rights, among others. Thanks to the Radical Left, to get cash benefits. They come in a really bad situation, and they are the ones we want to help. We don't solve all the problems. We'd like to help those who get in a really bad situation they can't get out of unless they sell their house and move somewhere else. Can the Minister not deal with the very simple problem that some people get so caught up that they are forced to move out of their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141332	What's the situation here is that it's sir. Frank Aaen and Enhedslisten, who have decided that those you want to help are those with free value, homeowners with free value. Then you put in another criterion, namely that they must not have an income of a certain size, but the starting point for even being included in Enhedslisten's intentions here, is therefore that you live in a place where there is free value in the dwelling, because otherwise there is nothing else to pledge. That is what I think makes the proposal strange. After all, we have taken many initiatives together, which have improved conditions for low-income groups in Denmark, a number of initiatives, ranging from the abolition of start-up aid to the finance law we made last. This is something in which we do not see whether people live in one way or another, because unemployment can hit equally hard regardless of the form of housing. That is why I do not understand whether or not I have sympathy, as I also said, for the interest in the most disadvantaged in this society, and I fully share it, why a targeted approach is then taken in favour of that part of the group that may be homeowners with free value.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141440	Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141443	We have just seen that there is a problem affecting a group of homeowners who do not have a chance to get out of the problem and are therefore forced to sell their homes. We can help them without it costing society money because they have to interest the postponement of the tax, and we know that the state can borrow the money for that delay to 1⁄2-1 per cent. and thus actually make money from the proposal. So I think that not helping everyone with this proposal is not a good argument for not helping those who get into trouble. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141527	What is referred to in the proposal is, after all, an existing system, and it will just be the case, regardless of how you turn and turn it, that it will then be at the expense of the municipalities that offer the scheme. It costs them opportunities in the situation where they issue the loans. This is the case today as far as pensioners are concerned, and that will be the case if the scheme is extended. But what I'm just wondering about with Mr. Simpson... Frank Aaen, I understand the interest in the most disadvantaged in this society and for low-income groups, but I do not understand the interest in providing homeowners with free value better than homeowners without, better than people living in cooperative housing, better than people living in rented housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141608	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416141634	Thank you for the floor, sir. President. I have said this before, when we recently had a dialogue on freezing the ground: owning a dwelling is far more than shoveling snow on the sidewalk, getting taken if it is leaking, and mowing the lawn in the summer. Tasks and responsibilities follow with the title as homeowner. So does reason. I do not think it is wrong to say that all of us in this Chamber today agree that the property assessment system must be controlled. The property valuation system does not work, and it is not right or fair that SKAT made mistakes in three out of four valuations on parcel houses in 2011 compared to the prices at which the houses were traded. Of course it's not good enough. So I understand the frustration of the homeowners. For the Left, it is still absolutely crucial that Danish homeowners can have confidence in SKAT's property assessment, and as long as the government has difficulty finding a solution to the problem, Danish homeowners must continue to wait in uncertainty until a new government resolves the problem. And, of course, the problem will not be reduced if, for one reason or another, the income of the houseowners falls. Today, when we first deal with the motion for a resolution that low-income citizens can freeze the ground debt, there should be no doubt that the proposal sounds immediately sympathetic. However, the proposal also means that there will be less money in the public treasury in 2016, 2017 and 2018, etc., until the citizens' homes are sold and the land debt is paid. The government has already chosen to go all the way to the deficit limit in the budget law for next year, so the money will be missing elsewhere in the public sector until the housing is eventually sold. Because the money can only be used once. As I understand the proposal, for example, a teacher will be able to have his reason frozen. But if the same educator takes a few extra shifts and therefore gets a little more paid than usual, the salary of the educator can risk exceeding the income limit, and suddenly you can no longer freeze your basic debt payments. Thus, the tax on the last crown earned may cost dearly. That is why I can only see that the proposal provides a higher effective marginal tax for low-income citizens. And higher marginal taxes result in lower labour supply and thus lower employment. We don't need that. In the Left, we want to give priority to low-income citizens, so that more people go from public support to work, because it must pay off to work. That is why we believe that the most important thing here and now is to ease the tax burden on the lowest labour income. The Left's priorities are based on what creates jobs and development throughout Denmark, and therefore the next priority of the Left will be to reduce taxes and taxes for business. Freezing the municipal debt is not at the top of our wish list, although of course we understand the concerns of the property owners. In the first place, the left gives priority to job creation and increased growth. It's good for the whole community. In addition, I would also like to make it clear that it is up to the municipalities whether they want to lower the communal truce. If they think that their citizens pay too much, they have free hands to ease the ground blame, because the land is fixed in the municipalities and not at Christiansborg. And it is an obvious opportunity for the municipalities to compensate homeowners for the increase in property tax by lowering the base rate of the debt. It is only Gentofte who, as I know, is not today able to further reduce the root cause of the problem. This is because today there is a requirement for municipalities to charge at least 16 In the past, the Left has proposed removing this requirement, because it must be up to the individual municipalities how much they want to charge in the land. As the resolution is before us today, the Left cannot therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142123	Sir. Frank Aaen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142124	I'm sure a lot of technique can be used. In fact, the proposal also says that there are many things that can be negotiated between those who are interested. That is why I would like to say that it is quite simple. Does the Left want to help the people, the families who get in a position to live in a home they may have lived for 20 years, because the root cause is growing and they may at the same time have become unemployed, and who may also have lost the right to receive unemployment benefits because of the unemployment benefit reform that the Left was involved in, and thus has been in a very difficult financial situation? Does the Left want to help, in relation to the fact that they can stay, or does the Left just think that then they must move?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142215	Now the Left doesn't just seem like it. After all, I have just told the author that the proposal seems sympathetic at first sight, but everything here is on the basis of a priority, and that is where the Left has chosen to give a different priority. I do not know whether I think the proposal is clever if, for example, this educator. suddenly gets a job that's better paid, and then suddenly you're about to pay this debt. If you can imagine a standard house in Denmark of 140 m2, it is at least in the municipality where I come from, where the root cause is roughly DKr 12,000. A year, it's 1,000 kroner. a month. Now, if we imagine that it's 5 years, you're gonna owe $60,000. If you suddenly get a job, you're gonna have to pay it. That is not entirely appropriate. It is something quite different when we find ourselves in a situation where pensioners and pensioners are given the opportunity to do so, because it is often when life ends that the estate has to be made up and then you pay the ground debt. This is a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142326	Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142327	There is nowhere in this proposal that you have to pay the frozen amount if you get to work. The freeze to which you are entitled, of course, disappears when you do not have income loss when you no longer have a low income. But the treatment of the freezing that has taken place must only be done on the day the house is sold. So that does not change the fact that people can take a job if they can get it, they have to take it if they are unemployed. It doesn't change that. This is a question of those people who, for a period of time, have a very low income, for example. because of unemployment, or because they have a job that is very low paid, they have the possibility, during the period they have the low income, of having a freeze.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142420	Thank you for the floor, sir. President. Well, I understand what the proposer is saying, but I have to say that the Left does not agree with the priority. We can say that, in the event of a better paid job, the discussion is, as the proposer says, whether the frozen ground debt should be paid. In the case where it has to be paid only when the house is sold, you can, of course, run for it, if you think it is a reasonable priority, a reasonable way of doing so. I would like to question that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142454	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142504	Although the Enhedslisten's proposal to freeze the ground blame for low-income citizens may seem very sympathetic, it must be noted at the same time that there are also a number of issues connected with the proposal. When you postpone tax payments, the government will lack that income today. A freezing of the ground debt therefore strikes a hole in the municipal treasury here and now, regardless of whether the income comes at a later date. If the municipality is to meet the financial burden, it is forced to cut welfare or raise taxes. In the end, therefore, it will do more harm than good if the proposal is implemented. I am also surprised that the proposal comes from the very Enhedslisten. I do not think it is usually Enhedslisten's priority to create favourable conditions for homeowners who already have a free value. Homeowners with free value are traditionally not among the groups of people who are the most vulnerable in Denmark. One might ask why low-income citizens living in a house with free value are better placed than tenants, low-income shareholders or low-income homeowners who have no free value. That puzzles me a little bit. Finally, Enhedslisten's proposals will make the system more complex than the current scheme is and the municipality will also see the administrative burdens increased and it is to be assumed that more will seek such a freezing of the land. So I think that the Enhedslisten's proposal to freeze the ground debt risks doing more harm than good, and that is why the Socialists cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142658	Sir. Frank Aaen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142700	Again, I miss the answer to the simple question: how do you help the families, the people who have lived a long time in their house and who experience that they are being forced by an increasing ground debt, among other things. Because of errors over in the SKAT, there are examples of this and which may have gone down in income because they have become unemployed or have lost their entitlement to unemployment benefit? I think that is a simple question, and I think that should be answered instead of just pretending to be nothing. So I have to say that the municipalities are cutting welfare, saying: no, that is not part of this proposal. It is, of course, the case that you adopt this, that the municipalities have to be compensated, and that can be done by the state doing what you call re-loans. Then the state lends the money to between 0.5 percent. and 1%. in interest rates, and then the municipalities get them on reloans to the landowners, who have to pay 1.6 per cent. at interest rate. It's a really good business, it's not a bad business for the public, and it's a really good solution for those who get stuck.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142810	I will start with the latter first and say that I do not think it is an expression of sound public finances to replace current revenue with borrowing and debt, regardless of interest rates. When I come to the second, which is the first part of the question, and which concerns the people who are at risk of being affected by the mistakes that are taking place in the SKAT, I would say that we are just working towards making solutions for that work already going on. So are we not doing something for people who are hit by unemployment and are in a situation of economic crisis? Of course we do. We create jobs every day. This government has created between 40,000 and 50,000 new jobs in Denmark. I think that is the way forward. Using the money, as we do, by investing in creating new jobs, creating growth in Danish society, is our solution to the issue of unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142905	Sir. Frank Aaen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142907	After all, we support the government in creating more jobs. After all, we support the government in a lot of the other things, also that we are moving away from zero growth in public expenditure etc., there are no problems there. But that is not an answer to the family who has lost their income and who faces the problem that they cannot afford to pay increasing ground debt and can therefore be forced to move from their homes. I think it is completely underestimated how serious it is for a family to have to leave their homes, for their children who lose their comrades and have to change school. It is a social disaster that affects an increasing number. I can't believe you don't worry about it anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416142954	I do not think anyone can be in any doubt that one of the things this government cares most about is unemployment and employment. That is why we spend so much money on creating growth in Danish society, creating new jobs. Fortunately, we can see that consumer confidence is succeeding, that business leaders believe that they will have to hire in the future is at the top of the list. That side of it's going really well. Then the rapporteur talks about the terrible situation when it comes to moving. I can only agree that this is a terrible situation, and all the more so I am surprised that in this case the rapporteur will only help those people who have a free value when they are affected by this, and therefore not people with low incomes who have no free value. So I do not think this proposal is connected, and I just have to conclude, as I did in my speech, that it does more harm than good and that is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143039	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143048	Today, it is possible for pensioners to have their land debt frozen, provided that they have a free value in their property and the municipality can then get a mortgage on it, so that it is ensured that you can also get the money later. They must then be paid when the property is sold. In this way it can be said that there will not be a liquidity burden on the household until the owner has realized his investment in the property. This is what Enhedslisten proposes, so that in future you will have to expand, so that it also applies to people with low incomes. We in the Danish People's Party think this is an excellent proposal. The problem is, of course, that in large parts of the country there is quite a sharp increase in the basic debt, whereas pensions and the rates of benefit and, in general, transfer income do not increase accordingly. This means that people can be squeezed out of their houses because of unforeseen things, for example. by losing their jobs. So we think it is both sympathetic and good proposal from Enhedslisten that you try to help them move on in their lives until they may then get a job again, so that in the intervening period they can stay in their houses. Then there are some challenges that will be mentioned by other rapporteurs, which, of course, I think it is worth looking at in committee, among others. What the Left says, namely that there may be some problems in relation to the limit that might come on tax if you get to work. Do you have to pay it all at once? We might perhaps consider that we said not to pay immediately, but that we said that you should do so when you sold the house, or over a number of years, if possible. So, after all, we could try to study this in committee to be sure that we could solve it, otherwise it is clear that it will discourage some from taking a job here and now if we did it with the model that Mr. Finn Thranum set up. But there could be other ways. As I said, it could be that when you sold the house, you paid back the ground debt. So immediately we are really positive about this proposal. And then I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I think the most important thing we should be focusing on now in the area of property is that we have some property assessments that are becoming more accurate. After all, this is the biggest problem and also what makes homeowners not really know whether they are bought or sold. After all, that work has also been set in motion. However, before we can really, I think, make some proper solutions with regard to the root cause and elsewhere, it is important that we first make some assessments that are more accurate. It has to be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143320	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to the next rapporteur in the series of speeches, and that is Mr Beazley. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143330	Thank you. This motion for a resolution, B 119, is basically a sympathetic proposal if you look at the intention to do so, namely to help citizens with the lowest incomes. The problem with the proposal is that it does not actually help the citizens who are worst off. On the contrary, it actually favours homeowners, even those who have free value in the house. It doesn't help those who live for rent or have a cohabitation. These are the very people on whom we may need to focus our attention; they are the ones who have the lowest incomes in Denmark. In the Radical Left we have the view that you buy a house, you should therefore put in a budget that can cope with periods of unemployment or lower pay. This is necessary in order to cope with sudden expenditure and falling incomes. That is why it is also the responsibility of the owner of the house not to set himself too high. And if one were to get into the unhappy situation of losing one's job for a period of time, but at the same time one has free value in the house, there would usually be an opportunity to refinance one's loans in the house and thus reduce the monthly cost of housing if one needs it for a period of time. We really think this is a better model for meeting this and the situation which the authors of the motion for a resolution have just pointed out. Today we have a system in which pensioners and pensioners can freeze the ground debt in their homes if they have a free value, and we think this is a fine arrangement because it is taken into account that people have reached a time in their lives when they no longer want to work or can work, but want to stay in their house or cottage. Typically, you will no longer have room in your general budget to pay, for example. For that reason, you choose to spend some of your free value on that expense. However, it is a permanent situation in which you have retired and where you cannot look forward to earning a higher income in the long term because you have just resigned from the labour market. Finally, I should just like to mention the administrative extra work in the municipalities, which will most probably follow from this proposal, if we are to keep an eye on whether income conditions change for the landowners who have been frozen their land debt and thus stop the loan during periods when income is above the level proposed by Enhedslisten and then activate the loan again when income falls below this level. We think it would be better to spend money on something really well-being... home care, schools... instead of spending the money on municipal administration of private loan schemes. So, on this basis, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143600	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143604	After all, there are many arguments against what is called a sympathetic proposal. One is that we should anticipate the situation we are facing. Well, I don't know how, when you bought a house 10 years ago, you could predict that there was a mega crisis in 2008, 2009. You couldn't foresee that; no man could. I also think it is fantastic that the Radical Left, which helped to destroy our benefit system to such an extent by halving the benefit period and making it much more difficult to earn the right to benefit, comes and says: 'You should have foreseen that.' Who could have expected the Radical Left to come through with that proposal? Nobody could. This is the case with so many arguments, among others. administration. The recipients of aid can really be tackled; as long as they earn a penny, we have found out how to hit aid recipients, so that we can do this in a cunning way, without having to employ a lot of bureaucrats. But may I say if you think this is a sympathetic suggestion, end with the question: what does the Radical Left have as a suggestion to help the people who get in trouble?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143718	Now I understand that Mr. Frank Aaen really brings a completely different discussion into this debate, namely the unemployment benefit issue. I think it takes a great deal to discuss it. But what I am trying to say is that if you are in the specific situation of homeowners and have free value, you also have the opportunity to look at your loans and reduce your housing costs in such a way during a period when you need them. So it is not to ignore the fact that there can be a challenge one can face. After all, we can all find ourselves in a situation where we need to do so, and we should do so. But I still wonder that what worries Enhedslisten most is homeowners with free value and that we have to do a whole lot for them. In fact, I think we should spend our gunpowder on those who are really missing. I do not have the figures for how many people have gone out of the benefit system and who are homeowners with free value, but that discussion may be taken at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143808	Sir. Frank Aaen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143811	In a debate you can always take an argument out of the bag. I do not think that the rapporteur here has tried to ask the mortgage credit institution, as an unemployed person, to borrow its own value. It is non-existent; you are poured out of the bank when you try to mortgage your free value if you do not have an income. So that's not a solution. I'm just gonna ask the question again. This proposal does not solve all the problems in the housing market, but we agree that some people are getting stuck because the root cause is growing and they have gone down in income. What will the Radical Left do for those people?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143848	Well, I can only refer once again to my rapporteur's speech and say that our basic starting point is, of course, that you choose to buy a house, you should also lay down the budget that allows you to deal with the expenditure that comes and the falling revenue that comes. I have also been in a family where we have lived in a house and where one became unemployed and we had to change our loan to afford to stay. So it is possible to do so. So it is not because I do not understand that issue at all. I'm just saying that I think you have to look for some other solutions to solve that particular problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143921	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416143930	I'll be very brief. As others have said, this is a very sympathetic proposal from the Enhedslisten. There is probably no doubt that there are a number of citizens with a low income who get into trouble when the municipalities increase the basic guilt as the land values increase. That is why it would have been sensible for us to have had this proposal when we made the Finance Act or have it when we next have to make the Finance Act. In the SF, we certainly need to have the necessary overview of both the fiscal and the municipal economic consequences of this proposal before we want to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144004	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for access to short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's speech, and the next is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144016	All the rapporteurs who have been on this platform, I believe, have said that this is a sympathetic proposal from the Enhedslisten, and the reason why they stress it must be that they are not used to seeing sympathetic proposals from the Enhedslisten. At least that's how we feel in the Liberal Alliance. What is, of course, sympathetic to this is that the Enhedslisten, for once, cares about citizens who have to pay taxes. This is not something that the Enhedslisten usually cares about. The party seems to have the view that any crown not paid in tax constitutes a potential tax hole, which should have been charged in tax and perhaps distributed as pocket money afterwards, so that one could buy one's own toothbrush. But that is a rather strange approach to it, because if you think that too much tax is levied on people, it might be that you should lower taxes, that is, that the state should borrow money for people, so that they can later pay their taxes, because you have a recognition that the tax is far too high in relation to people's ability to pay, is a good argument for the tax to be reduced, instead of the state being a loaner for the payment of taxes. But there are some problems with this proposal. The first problem is that there is a revenue limit. It's only if you have an income below DKK 27,000 that you have to be allowed to borrow this money from the government. But there are also people who have an income above DKK 27 000 who have problems paying their debts. Typically, in some of the areas where the root cause increases wildly, people who earn more than DKK 27,000 live. a month, and they may have the same challenges of paying the tax. That is one problem. The second problem is the incentives that it sets in motion. It is a very abrupt limit that is suddenly; whether you can get this offer, or if you can't get it, is determined by whether you earn $2.50 (U.S.). a month, or whether you earn $2.50 (U.S.). a month. There's a difference of 2 kroner. on the income, but there's all the difference between whether you can get this offer from Enhedslisten or not. Then suddenly people are going to wonder if they are on the border to earn more than 27,000 kroner. a month, whether they can get below the DKK 27,000, or if they are less than $27,000, they should at least not accept any overtime, so they will get over $27,000. It's kind of the opposite of having to pay off working in this country. It should also pay to take a better paid job, but if the better paid job means going from a monthly salary of DKK 26,000. If you have received this offer from Enhedslisten that, as long as you have DKK 26,000, you can borrow for the ground debt, it may be that people say no to taking a better paid job, because then suddenly they have to pay back all of this amount that they owe as a reason, because they now come up to a monthly salary of DKK 28,000. It's a little difficult for me and the Liberal Alliance to figure out what we're going to vote on this proposal. On the one hand, we certainly have no objection to giving people an opportunity to postpone their payment of the ground debt if they are in a position to pay it, but on the other hand, there are these major problems that I have mentioned in my speech. So we will go into the think box and find out whether we should vote for or against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144427	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144431	Well, it's fine that you go to a think box. I think that everyone should do this on a regular basis. So I hope you do, too. We could perhaps use the time in the thinking box to read the proposal, because we would like to further discuss how to define low income, including that we can make a modulation, so that there is an escalation of how much one can get frozen, depending on one's salary. In other words, if you go from one salary to a higher salary, we do not just say that it is over. Then we can gradulate and say that then you can borrow maybe half. The problem has thus been opened up in the motion for a resolution and I am sure that when the Liberal Alliance has been in the think box, it will be possible to endorse the proposal with what I have just heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144526	Well, it is fine to start negotiations, but that also means that we do not really know what we are voting for when we have a vote in this Chamber, because that will be discussed afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144538	Sir. Frank Aaen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144540	Well, that's what we're gonna solve by making a story. That's what you have stories for. When a resolution has been tabled and a majority can be reached, the report expresses what that majority should be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144553	Thank you. I have not been involved in such a process where there have been debates following a resolution, so I am pleased to be informed by someone who has been longer in the Folketing than I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144606	There's a lot of exciting things going on here. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144615	Thank you very much, sir. President. It is of course interesting to be on the platform in connection with a proposal from the Enhedslisten. It is the first time this was the previous speaker also mentioned in my time, and it is not so long, but 8 years, that there is a proposal from Enhedslisten against the tax imposed on ordinary citizens. And I would like to acknowledge and praise Enhedslisten for having realised that there are huge complexities in it and that it has such an impact on some that the tax is too high that there is a need to make new political decisions. Praise so far. With regard to the proposal itself that there should be a limit to income in order to be able to benefit from this system, i.e. the exemption, the freezing of housing tax, I would say that this has the unfortunate effect, which is also the case, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned, and as we also see when we discuss whether wealthy pensioners should be entitled to a basic standard pension. Because there will of course be a lot of temptation to say: No, they have enough money in the account to take care of themselves, so they should not have a pension. But the problem is that those who have chosen to use rub and stump during life and have nothing are entitled to a pension, while those who have saved and worked extra and made an effort beyond the usual and have money in the account for the day and the way forward are punished by not getting any pension. It doesn't make any sense, there's no justice in it, and it's no good. It is always a problem when setting the limit amounts, because then you start to prevent you from getting above that limit amount, and that has a long, long series of negative consequences. However, I would like to go so far as to say that this is a positive signal from the Enhedslisten, and we need more from the red block, which points out that there are taxes and charges that are so negative for a person, for a family, and this also applies to the business community. And that's why this is a step in the right direction. In the Conservative People's Party, we are in favour of the land being completely frozen for everyone, because we can see that many people cannot remain in their homes. We can see that people have to sell their homes because taxes are rising and rising. And there we have a separate political point of view. So that is not enough, it is not enough, but it does not change the fact that we will reward the good thoughts and idealism behind this proposal. So we will support it because it's better than nothing. So, for once, the Conservative People's Party can support a resolution from the Enhedslisten. And that is in the broad term, because we need to have a look at how exactly it will be implemented. There I have mentioned a number of complexities, and we know that there is a choice at the door, so that it will probably not be reached. But praise for the initiative, and that is why, and only for this reason, we do not support it because of the elements of the resolution itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144923	There is one brief comment. Actually, there are two. The first one's from sir. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416144928	Thank you, and thank you for the connection with a little run-in. Of course, we are happy about that anyway. I just want to ask whether the rapporteur can not confirm that if you freeze property taxes, it is one-sided in favour of those who have the most expensive housing? Then it is one-sided in favour of them, whereas, for example, it is one-sided in favour of them. all those who live on the outskirts of Denmark, in the areas that are not as rich as North Zealand, do not get a crown out of it, because they pay in advance the maximum amount. It's much less than what you pay in North Zealand, but this means just huge tax cuts for those who live in the richest areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145021	If sir... Frank Aaen is completely, vertically and diametrically opposed to the fact that there is a problem, one will not make such a proposal, so Enhedslisten has himself documented that there is a problem with the housing tax. I do not think that the argument that if you live there and there, and the greater the housing, the greater the problem, stands. That's not what this is about. It's not fair, it's unfair. There are people who have bought and paid a home, and then the state just demands year by year on the basis of completely unspeakable assessments made that citizens cannot in any way influence, and they just have to pay more and more because there is a deeply unfair technical projection of a value. We're gonna freeze that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145105	Sir. Frank Aaen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145106	The Conservative People's Party must mean what they want. We have made a proposal that helps those who get into trouble either because of a fall in income or because of a very sharp increase in the ground debt and cannot afford to pay that increase. It's very targeted people with low income who get stuck. The Conservative People's Party's proposal is just pouring billions out of the treasury to those people who already have huge housing and very large income. That is the difference between Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party, and it is good enough to clarify it in a debate like this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145145	It is quite true that there is a difference between Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party. But that is nonsense, and so it is hypocritical in some way to say that you want to help those who cannot pay. If a person has an income below a certain amount, one would be happy to help him, because it is not reasonable for the person that the family has to sell their dwelling. But if you have a house somewhere else, where the income is above that amount, there is no help, even if they cannot afford to pay. Then they'll have to sell the house, because there's no other way for those people, I'll tell Frank Aaen. But Frank Aaen doesn't care about them. It doesn't matter. They can sail their own lake because they have more than 27,000 kroner. in income, and there is no electoral potential in that, and therefore you close your eyes to that issue. It's not very sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145232	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145238	Thank you. In the Left, we agree with the Conservative People's Party that the increase in the basic debt payments poses a problem for many. It is clear that this problem is of course greater, the less money you have. I heard the Conservative People's Party support the proposal from the Enhedslisten, and this surprises me a little, because we usually have a common position that it should pay off to work. If we imagine a person who does not have a job is on a daily allowance, the incentive to take a job will fall away if, at the same time, you have to pay 6,000, 7,000, 8,000, 9,000, 10,000. a month in the ground, what else could be done to get rid of it. The Liberal Alliance, I think, explained quite well the problems of such income graduation. Is this not something that the Conservative People's Party can also see can pose a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145348	Yes, it can. Now I think that the good, competent Jan E. Jørgensen has been in conversation with a colleague since he did not hear me explain in detail exactly the same problem, namely that people are deprived of the motivation to earn more than DKK 27 000 and that this is a problem which, in isolation from normal circumstances, would mean that we would not support it. But it is because it is Enhedslisten who puts it forward and because it has a positive effect on some. I also explained the parallel situation that there are some who say that wealthy pensioners should not be entitled to a basic pension. I explained that the person who spends everything, rubs and stumps throughout his life until he reaches retirement age would then be entitled to a pension, if necessary, whereas the person who has saved up the money and has had something to resist would be punished by not receiving a basic pension. We cannot go into this kind of injustice. These are the issues that arise when there are such limits, so I have problematized it all I could. I agree with Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen in saying that it is true that the incentives and the ideology behind it are removed from the resolution, we are also opposed, but I have to say that when Enhedslisten finally wakes up and realises that it is a problem to impose on some citizens, some homeowners a housing tax that you cannot pay, you have to do something about it. We cannot vote that down.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145511	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145513	I therefore agree that it is an historic day when Enhedslisten says it may be a tax problem. They should also have every credit and praise for this, but then I would suggest that we should perhaps give a cake to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur or something else, because this proposal could be adopted and thus become a policy. We in the Left therefore believe that the disadvantages that will be on the incentive side are so severe and so great that this is in itself sufficient reason why a proposal such as that before us cannot be adopted, because the disadvantages that will exist will thus exceed the benefits of the proposal. Then I think it might be a little nice to say that we are now giving Enhedslisten a pat on his shoulder, because imagine if it was adopted. Then we would have a tremendous problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145607	I think that sometimes in life you come the longest with praise and ae and motivate people to do more of the right thing. This is a small start, and that's where we start with the Enhedslisten in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are going to go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416145630	I would just like to start with the debate we had before on what is going to happen to the more prosperous who are getting into trouble. So we are prepared to negotiate. We recognise that there may also be people with a relatively high income who suddenly find themselves in a bad situation, and that is the difference between us and the Conservative People's Party. They will give tax relief to everyone, whether you make a million or two or three. We say that here we go in and make a scheme that helps those who get in trouble because they get a fall in income or because their basic debt is rising to a level they cannot cope with. So we have a clear social aim with our proposal. Allow me to say that the Conservative People's Party has a clear anti-social aim in the general proposal. However, this should not prevent me from thanking you for the positive reports on our proposal anyway. It is, after all, a simple proposal that we have put forward. It has, of course, been problematized and made very technical by others, and it is also a technical issue, it is not near that. However, the political position expressed by the proposal here is quite simple: those who are experiencing a sharp increase in their basic debt, who have suffered a loss of income because they have become unemployed and because the government, together with the bourgeois parties here in the Folketing, has decided to reduce the benefit system, so many people, 30,000, have lost their right to unemployment benefit, come in a situation where they cannot afford to stay and are thus forced to move with the social consequences that it has when a family is forced to move, namely that they have to move somewhere where the children get far away from the comrades that they had, are forced to move school and, at the very least, get into the uncertainty that one cannot stay where one would like. That problem is obviously huge and it is growing at the moment. That is also why most parties here have said that they think it is a sympathetic proposal, but then they have said that they are opposed. It is therefore a sympathetic proposal, and I think that if we cannot support what is here, we should perhaps come up with another way of helping the families who get into problems because of the development that is for a number of families. So I am glad that the Danish People's Party has supported. SF believes that it should have been made a little earlier, I understand. It's okay too, isn't it? It's some kind of support, too? Then there is the Conservative People's Party to which I have referred. I would just like to say that the argument that has been used is quite amazing. One general argument has been that it does not solve all problems. No, it is quite clear in the motion for a resolution that it does not solve all the problems. It solves the problem described, but there are many others. That is why we have come up with initiatives to improve housing benefits and housing security, so that tenants who are financially squeezed are helped and how we can get cheaper rentals. So, of course, we also care for the tenants. It would be pointless to include them in this proposal. We have done so in the other proposals. We have also put forward proposals that homeowners who get into so much trouble that their house goes foreclosure, we would like to help with a very simple suggestion that when a house is foreclosure, the state has the right to bid 5 kroner. more than the highest bid. This means that the state can take over the house for what can be called the market value at the given time, and then offer that those who live in the house may be allowed to continue to stay as tenants in order to avoid people being forced to move out of their homes. We have a series of proposals, and this is another one that we have made in this debate. It is therefore also generally a very bad argument that you are opposed to a proposal that helps some because it does not help everyone. I don't even think that's an argument... it's just nonsensical. If you have a problem and you recognise the problem, you must of course also take a position on a proposal that solves that particular problem and not reject it because it does not solve all the problems. Then it has been said that the municipalities and welfare must pay. No, that is the case with our proposal, and so it is also in the way that always legislates that if the state imposes an expense on the municipalities, the state has to pay. What we are proposing here is quite simple, that the municipalities administer it in the same way as they manage it for pensioners, but they then have the money made available as a re-loan from the Treasury. We know about relocating from lots of areas. Bridges and all sorts of other things are being built for state loans, which are being re-loaned, and this can of course be done here without destroying the public economy in any way. It is also a good business because, as it is today, those who borrow the money must pay 1.64 per cent. in interest rates, and the state can therefore borrow money on the capital market for 1⁄2% if it is 10-year loans, and barely 1% if it is 30-year loans. So it's a really good business for the public funds to do this, and it helps some people in need in a very important area. Then there has been a lot of discussion that we are only helping those who have free value. That is the way in which the known system is now put together. We would then like to consider how we can help people who do not have free value, i.e. who, in addition to income reductions, have experienced their property becoming less valuable. It has to be said, however, that they rarely get into the problem that their basic guilt is increasing dramatically. There's like a contradiction in it. In other words, if you have an increasing ground for guilt, you will usually have an increasing free value, but let us also look at that problem, but we have been so rude as to simply take a system that you know, namely the one that applies to pensioners, and to extend it to others who have come into a precarious situation, namely those with low income or a fall in income. Then there has been a discussion that you can risk people getting a job, and then they have to repay the frozen ground debt. No, the proposal does not say anything about that, and it would certainly be deeply foolish. I therefore agree with those who have said that this should not be done. No, you don't. Then, of course, the frozen amount will just stand until the day the house is sold. Then it is true that if you get to work, you might have to start paying the ground debt again. Well, what's the problem? Then you get into the situation you were in before you became unemployed, where you could afford to stay in the house. So it is an artificial problem, and it has been the case in this debate that one artificial problem has been addressed after another. We help those who get into trouble because of falling income or a sharp increase in the ground debt. If people get to work and find themselves in an economic situation as before, they must, of course, pay as before. That goes without saying, and there is no problem at all. But so, we will discuss it in committee, of course, and take as a starting point, as I heard before, the positive. We must always take the positive approach, if at all possible, and that is that everyone has said that it is a sympathetic proposal, and it is also recognised that there is a problem. Then we will have to see if we cannot find a joint solution in committee to address this problem, rather than just allowing the problem to continue with the risk that an increasing number of people will not be able to afford to stay in their homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150433	Thank you. Three colleagues have asked for access to short remarks. The first is sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150440	Thank you. I just have a clarification question for mr. Frank Aaen. I just heard at the beginning of the rapporteur's speech that it was actually opened up that there does not have to be a real revenue limit, but a reduction in revenue. I just need some clarification. Does this mean that, for example, if you are going to have a system like this, you are going to have a system like this? will have a reduction in income from 2 million. kr. a year to 1.8 million. kr., actually could get into play too?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150509	I wouldn't rule that out. We can discuss that. I would say that there are probably not many rich people who want to borrow at 1.64%. in the Treasury, when they can go out and get a flex loan to zero comma nothing. So I don't think it's a big problem, but we're willing to discuss the fact that anyone who gets stuck and can't pay their debt, regardless of income, gets this loan option, against them paying interest. That, again, is the difference between us and the Conservatives. This is not a tax credit, it is an opportunity to postpone a tax in a way that is economically advantageous to the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150544	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150547	This is an interesting new alliance in Danish politics in this area. I have another question. What I also understood was that the free value might not in fact be the determining factor for whether this proposal came through, so that one does not actually even have to have a free value in one's home in order to obtain some kind of loan. Paragraph 1: Is that correct? Point 2: How does Mr. Frank Aaen the possibility that the Conservatives will be able to agree to that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150614	Perhaps we should remember what was the cornerstone of social legislation just a few years ago. It was in fact that if a family or a person came into a social situation where his or her living conditions really deteriorated dramatically, the public could step in with welfare assistance. Those were the rules originally. In principle, they are still like that. Of course, they have deteriorated greatly, but in principle they are still so. And I think it is worth considering extending that to the residential area. Perhaps it should already be the case that if people get stuck and can't pay their rent, whether they're tenants or owners, they could get help from the public. That is why I would like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150700	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Thranum from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150705	Thank you. This is a bit of a follow-up to the same issue here, because now it comes as a bit of a surprise to me that the proposer mentions that there does not need to be a free value in order to apply for this freezing of the basic cost of the debt. I do not quite understand that, because that means that if and if you get into a situation where your income goes below DKK 27 000. It may be that there is no security for the money that is now being offered to freeze, and that means that it will be the state that will be us, it will be the taxpayers who will eventually have to pay for the difference that may exist. As we heard, as I said in my introduction, three-quarters of the houses are today overrated. This means that the house cannot already be sold at a price which is approximately the value of the house; it is often 25 per cent. below. I think it is a significant problem that we can hang on to a lot of expenses. Will the proposer try to elaborate on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150812	I think it is a significant problem that there are quite a lot of people who have become technically insolvent and thus have actually been tied up, which therefore cannot move because they cannot get rid of their house, because of the housing bubble that broke. I think that is a huge problem and, as I have said several times, it is a huge problem if people are forced to leave their homes. I think you should think about that much more than you do, and then not say that people must have thought about it before they bought a house. For a time you could only buy a house that simply cost too much. Here in the Copenhagen area there are some wild prices, and those people have got stuck. Then you can ask if it's their own fault. You can do that, but perhaps you could also consider whether you can help the people who have been put in a mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150901	Sir. Finn Thranum for the second brief remark? No. The next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150909	Thank you. If you have found that a tax is far too high, so high that families have to leave house and home, is it not natural to think that it may be that you should lower that tax so that families do not have to leave house and home? That's how we think. The Enhedslisten has invented this alternative proposal, which is that the state can lend them to pay the tax. Why not lower the tax when Enhedslisten has found that it is too high?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416150942	Well, it's only too high for those who can't pay. I mean, those who have bought a home and have a high income equivalent to what their accommodation costs can pay, and they just have to pay. We have no problem with that. However, those who have got into trouble for one reason or another, we would like to help, not with tax relief, but with giving it an opportunity to postpone the tax, and that is because we also have a care to ensure that there is enough money in the treasury for welfare. There is not quite an agreement, but we think it is a good idea with some incomes that can ensure welfare, which should not be undermined by tax cuts. So that's why. And a general tax relief is again just for the benefit of those who earn the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151028	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151030	But here Mr. Frank Aaen has a general problem with property taxation, and that is that it is not linked to people's ability to pay. It is linked to developments in a market over which people are not masters, which means that people who have a relatively low income, but have bought a house at a time when they could well finance that house, so because of some market fluctuations which have nothing to do with their income development, are going to pay more in tax. So, this principle that the widest shoulders have to bear the heaviest burdens, is all parties in the Folketing agreed, that is why we have a percentage tax, but when it comes to property taxation, it is completely detached from what people earn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151111	Everyone in the Folketing doesn't agree on that. There are at least some parties, quite a lot of parties, in some cases all parties other than Enhedslisten, who are in favour of making tax cuts targeted at those who earn the most. So we do not entirely agree on the question, i.e. whether the widest shoulders should pay the most. But it's going to get too far to discuss today. We really believe that the housing market should be set up quite differently than it is, so people can afford to live in, for example. Copenhagen. It's crazy that people with normal incomes can't afford to live in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151144	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for access to short remarks, and since no one has asked for the floor at all, the debate has ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Municipal Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151201	The debate is open. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior is the first speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151220	Then it was time for SF's proposal to introduce shared municipal tax, so citizens have to pay municipal tax in the municipalities in Denmark where they own a full-year residence. In practice, the proposal is aimed at reintroducing the so-called farmland tax, which was abolished in 1979, or at least a variant of the farmland tax, because the proposal only covers all-year residences and therefore not summer homes. The reason for the proposal, one must understand from the remarks, is that more citizens today own and inhabit several full-year residences in different municipalities. It also points out the development in which several municipalities abolish the residence requirement for a number of full-year residences. I agree that we are seeing this development, and the government has actually helped to support it. Among other things: In April 2013, we introduced a so-called flex housing scheme aimed at stimulating demand for full-year houses in the outermost regions of the country. Most recently, in connection with the agreement on "Growth Package 2014" in which SF also participates, we have decided to extend the scheme so that the flex housing permit can be continued when the property is sold. It is voluntary for the municipalities to take advantage of the possibility of granting flexible permits, and it is also up to the individual municipality whether to enforce the residence obligation on full-year residences in the municipality or in parts of the municipality. So what we see is that the municipalities use the opportunity to make full-year homes attractive to buyers who will not immediately make the dwelling their primary dwelling. Because in this way a good alternative is created for a house to end up empty and degenerate. Instead, the house will have residents who contribute positively to creating more life and activity in the outermost regions when they are staying in what we could call their secondary housing. That is why I think it is important to keep the perspective clear: that some dwellings in outlying areas are used as an extra dwelling, for example. A flexible housing is not part of the problem for peripheral and rural municipalities. On the contrary, it is part of the solution to the lack of demand for full-year houses in the outermost regions of the country. Today it is the case that a citizen pays municipal tax to the municipality where you have your main residence. This has been the case since 1979 when the last remnants of the so-called farm income tax were abolished. The reason for the abolition at that time was e.g.: to debureaucratise and simplify the municipal tax rules. At the same time, emphasis was also placed on the fact that the summer cottage municipalities did not have the costs of school and other institutions and that, on the other hand, the municipalities of residence did not achieve any savings as a result of a taxpayer staying in a summer cottage municipality. The same considerations apply today. Although there has been more flexible access to full-time houses in several municipalities, it is still necessary for citizens to use most of the municipal services where their main residence is located. It is in the municipality where the children go to school and institution, and it is also the municipality which has the cost of home help if it is older we are talking about. Also, the concern for debureaucratisation is at least as relevant today as it was 36 years ago. At any rate, I do not believe that the time has come to restore bureaucratic tax rules that should address a problem that we are actually solving better and more nuanced in other ways. And that brings me to the equalization system. The inter-municipal equalisation now guarantees a high level of economic equality for the municipalities of the country. The compensation transfers considerable funds from well-off municipalities to less well-off municipalities. In 2012, the government last made an adjustment to the compensation, which meant that an additional approximately 400 million was transferred. kr. to rural and outlying municipalities. It is difficult to see that a shared municipal tax on a more or less uncertain basis should solve something that is not better addressed through equalisation. I also have to say that the net impact of the proposal will be very limited. This is because the proposed redistribution of tax revenue will, to a large extent, be offset by the general system of compensation. Finally, it is in the proposal that citizens with more than one year's residence should indicate each year, when completing the tax return, where they have lived in the past year. Citizens' data in the tax return will necessarily have to be subject to control by the authorities. And that gives, among other things. I should like to say at a perhaps more fundamental level that I will always be very reluctant to introduce rules that force citizens to explain where in Denmark they are on what days within a year. I think it is somewhat snarling towards a form of monitoring of citizens, which is unnecessarily intrusive. It seems to me that such controls on the movement of citizens within the country would have to be very serious and, in this case, I think it is disproportionately. SF proposes, in the alternative, that the proposal for shared municipal tax be combined with the work of the Finance Committee to offset the effects of the proposal for new rules for reimbursement in the field of employment. Here I would like to point out that the task of the Financial Committee is to come up with proposals to deal with the long-term unintended burden-sharing shifts resulting from the reimbursement restructuring. And the work of the Finance Committee is based on analyses of municipal differences in expenditure requirements in the field of employment. Therefore, I do not see that it will be immediately relevant to include any considerations about shared municipal tax in this context. Overall, therefore, the SF's proposals involve both increased bureaucracy, at least transparency, and increased control of citizens. However, the flex housing system and the possibility of abolishing the residence obligation are not, in the view of the government, a problem for the peripheral and rural municipalities, but rather part of the solution to the lack of demand for full-year houses in the outermost regions of the country. And in any case, it is the case that one should think that it is burdensome for the municipality to use the schemes, yes, then it is entirely voluntary. Then you can just don't. That is why we do not think that this is an opportunity to restore bureaucratic rules that we abolished many years ago, and that is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151827	There is one brief comment. It's from Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151832	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I can see that the Minister is not exactly jumping up and down from joy at the proposal, and that is perhaps no surprise either. The aim of this proposal is, after all, to offset the distortions which exist in Denmark 36 years after some law was abolished, namely in 1979. That is why I think it is perhaps a pity that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior so reluctantly to allow the Finance Committee to look at these things. I know that the training of the Finance Committee is to look at the imbalances in the reform of employment, but it is nevertheless the case that it is linked to the compensation, it is linked to a Denmark that is becoming increasingly distorted, it is linked to outermost regions that have major challenges. Could the Minister not consider whether the Finance Committee or at least some corner of the Ministry could look at whether there were other tools to use to make justice greater between the municipalities in Denmark that have the greatest challenges in these years, and then the municipalities that have very heavy money boxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416151952	With the way the question has been asked, it is hard not to say that there are, of course, things we can do to create better conditions in our rural and peripheral areas. One of the things we are dealing with in the Danish Parliament right now is a broad agreement to reduce the cost of freight transport to our islands, including several islands, and that is just an example. We have also had consultations today in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands on passenger transport and the tariffs for this, and we will address that question later. What I just think is important is that, when we have taken more initiatives that have given municipalities more opportunities to sell full-year housing without any obligation of residence to people who want to use them as secondary housing, it is because it has been wanted in rural and peripheral areas. Therefore, we are just opposed to making it a problem if it actually succeeds in selling some of the houses to people who want to use them as secondary homes. And that is what is, as it were, the focal point of the proposal here and the secondary thoughts, and also why we reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152102	Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152103	No, it is not the case that the proposal has been made to problematize that we have made it possible for people to buy full-year residences other than where they have their residence or residence. What is problematic is that people are so mobile today and, to a very large extent, as opposed to 1979 moving around and spending a lot of time elsewhere than where they necessarily have their fixed place of work, because it has become possible to work at home and it has become possible to organise its life completely fundamentally differently. When we are interested in the fact that we are also helping the outermost municipalities, which have real costs for citizens using the road network who use the facilities of the municipalities, then it is because we are actually concerned about this imbalance. But I understand that the Minister also has some understanding of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152158	I have a great deal of sympathy for that. That is why I am also pleased to repeat that we have jointly ensured that the compensation system, which is far more effective in addressing this issue, is now very much a reflection of burden sharing, where, with our recent amendments, we have sent some 400 million. kr. Every year to our rural areas and outlying municipalities as a result of the work we have done together during this period of government. So we have just addressed it in an effective way, but I just have to stick to the fact that the comments on the proposal start with the fact that more and more people are abolishing the residence obligation, that more people are using it, and this then leads to a need for shared municipal tax because it happens in the outermost regions. And there is the point, of course, that it is not our view that it is a problem in the outermost regions, but rather that it is beneficial that people buy all-year houses out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152254	I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152316	SF has tabled a motion for a resolution on the introduction of shared municipal tax, so that taxable persons have to pay municipal tax in all the municipalities in Denmark where they own a full-year residence. The reason for the proposal is that more and more rural municipalities in these years are abolishing the obligation to live in full-year houses, and with the flexible housing scheme this development is being pushed forward, which in many ways is positive. This makes it possible for families to live in several places, but the challenge is that today you only pay municipal taxes in the municipality where you register for the population register, and when you live in several municipalities, you at least draw a certain amount on the municipal service in several municipalities. In the Left, we believe that this is a relevant debate, and we can see that there are some challenges coming as the flex housing system becomes more and more widespread. We therefore understand the problem, but we cannot support the model proposed by the SF. As the SF itself points out, there are a number of practical challenges in calculating the rates of residence in the various dwellings, and one might well fear that there would be some who began to speculate where it is most attractive to stay in such a tax situation most days a year, and immediately we in the Left do not think that there is any reason to complicate the tax system further. It's complicated enough already. It should also be remembered that flex housing owners pay land taxes to the municipality, and that is money, among other things. will cover the costs of roads, etc. Then, as the Minister said, we also have our equalisation system to deal with differences between the municipalities of the country. The Left is very aware that there are major challenges for a number of municipalities in rural areas. Growth and development is something that must be reserved not only for parts of Denmark, but for the whole of Denmark, and that is also why we come up with a rural committee which has a number of proposals that will create jobs and income throughout Denmark. However, we cannot support the SF's motion for a resolution. We agree with the Minister that expenditure is primarily reserved for the municipality of residence, i.e. the municipality where the population register has been registered. This is the municipality where you spend more than 180 nights a year, and if you implemented the SF's proposal, it would also have consequences for the compensation system, where the municipalities, which then received a higher tax income, had to hand in the vast majority of the money in compensation. If there are some problems which the inter-municipal reimbursement schemes do not fully address, we would very much like to take a look at it. It is a very complicated system, but there might be something to look at there, but otherwise the starting point is that the municipality of residence has to reimburse a temporary municipality of residence, which could of course be where you have a summer house or another holiday home, for the positive costs that the municipality has, for example, for home help.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152629	There is a brief comment. It's from Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152633	Thank you. On 7 March of this year Karsten Lauritzen, the Legal Rapporteur for the Left, writes on Facebook: In today's Jyllands-Posten it is proposed by a lawyer that we get a municipal tax system where you pay for example. 10% of your tax in the municipality in which you have a summer or leisure home. It is a visionary idea that can ensure that we get a Denmark in better balance. We already have a similar system in relation to corporation tax so that it can work. I support the proposal and will work to ensure that it is the policy of the Left and implemented after a parliamentary election. How many people in the Left cannot support the SF's proposal today and how many can support it? And I would like to know if you cannot support the SF's proposals, which you actually think have some good tactics, can I understand what kind of model you would like to support from the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152720	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152722	Now I saw that there was a proposal here the other day from some SFs that there would be a ban on party jumping, but it is not prohibited yet. And if Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge wants to hear what is happening in the group meetings of the Left, then she must change her party to the Left and thus have a seat. Then she can hear what we're talking about there. ♪ What I am ♪
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152753	Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152755	I cannot recall asking to see what is going on in the group meetings of the Left. Actually, I don't have much interest in that. But I would really like to know what the Left wants. When this model cannot be supported, what is it, as Mr. In his rapporteur's speech, Jan E. Jørgensen himself states that he can be used as a model to make something similar to shared municipal tax, because that is what I heard in the rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152821	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152823	No, the rapporteur cannot possibly have heard that, because I have not said so. So, shared municipal tax has a number of problems, as I explained, and therefore the Left cannot support a proposal for shared municipal tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152840	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen and welcome to the next rapporteur. It's from the Social Democrats, and it's Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416152850	Thank you. SF suggests that we should introduce a shared municipal tax. In short, the proposal means that citizens have to pay shared municipal tax in the municipalities where they may own a full-year residence. Today, you only pay municipal taxes where you have your main residence. In fact, I have at first sight sympathy and understanding for the thoughts of this proposal, but when you dive a little into the substance, a number of problems also arise. I think it is important to make it clear that the proposal does not apply to inhabited summerhouses. On the other hand, there are likely to be more full-year residences without a residence requirement. As you know, the government introduced, and as the Minister has also explained in his speech earlier during this treatment, the flex housing scheme which allows municipalities to abolish the residence obligation on full-year residences. We have done so because it can increase the demand for housing in rural areas, which, alternatively, could stand empty and, in the long term, also decline. Apart from the fact that the flex housing scheme can reduce the number of empty dwellings, the municipalities are also guaranteed the income that they then receive when the property is sold and that comes in via the land debt. This is immediately more problematic in relation to shared municipal tax. Indeed, there is no clear link between the tax payment and the use of municipal services by citizens in the municipality where the citizen may have his or her secondary residence. Citizens will probably continue to make use of most of the municipal services where their main residence is located. If, for example, a citizen is in need of home help, it will be the municipality of residence that will have to bear the cost, even when you are in your secondary residence, i.e. in another municipality. Moreover, it is important to bear in mind that our relatively high and fine-meshed equalisation system and high level of compensation mean that the net benefit of sharing the municipal tax will be marginal. My experience is that our equalisation system is therefore far more effective in ensuring economic equality between the municipalities of the country on a more objective basis. Of course we can always adjust in the equalization system, it's never perfect, and the day it gets perfect, we really have found a golden egg. After all, we have just done it by adjusting the compensation scheme, and we did it in 2012, when we redistributed 400 million. kr. more from the larger cities to the local authorities in rural areas in particular. Finally, it can be pointed out that the proposal will also mean an increase in administration in the municipalities and also in the citizens when it comes to indicating how much of the year you have lived in one municipality or another in order to calculate the division of the municipal tax. In addition, the proposers propose that the proposal be combined with the current work of the Financial Committee. I just do not think it would seem appropriate to have to mix shared municipal tax into discussions on reimbursement rules in the field of employment. That is why I have to say that the Socialists cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153225	There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153236	I have to inform you that our rapporteur on the motion for a resolution, sir. Morten Marinus, cannot be here today, and that is why I have to read his rapporteur's speech. The Socialist People's Party's proposal is that people who own several full-year residences in different municipalities should divide their municipal tax into several parts. The Socialist People's Party proposes that every year citizens write on their tax returns how much they have been in each dwelling; however, they must pay at least 10%. in the municipality in which they have been least resident. The Danish People's Party recognises that there are many municipalities which are financially insecure, including municipalities where you have full-year houses without a residence obligation, and therefore more and more of these are being used as holiday homes and leisure homes. The Danish People's Party generally wants greater solidarity between the municipalities, and when it comes to negotiating new compensatory reform, it is obvious that it is also important to consider whether municipalities with many full-year houses without a residence obligation should be one of the parameters that is further included in these negotiations. So the resolution here should, in the view of the Danish People's Party, be included in a forthcoming debate on equalisation in the state administration, and the Danish People's Party is, of course, prepared to discuss and negotiate both form and content.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153353	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153405	Thank you. With motion for a resolution B 120, it is proposed that you divide your tax payments between several municipalities, if you own housing in several municipalities, depending on how much you stay in the homes. The aim is to ensure a fair distribution of tax revenue between municipalities, since the facilities of the various municipalities are now being used. We think it makes sense to have such arrangements. In order to ensure this, we have a system of compensation with a very high level of compensation, so that the municipalities with lower tax revenues, for example. More social expenditure is compensated for in the compensation system. That is why the Radical Left does not believe that a new system is needed to tackle this challenge when it already exists. In addition, it will be extremely difficult to find a model for the distribution of municipal tax in the two municipalities without a precise estimate of the number of days spent in one municipality and the other. This would result in excessive bureaucracy towards citizens and the tax administration, which was also one of the reasons for abolishing the farm tax in 1979, which in some ways resembled this divided municipal tax, as is proposed here. If you go further, you will then have to assess to what extent, as a citizen, you have actually drawn on different benefits in the two different municipalities, as it will rarely be the same, for example. in relation to day care, school, home care, etc. I think it's gonna be a lot of trouble. There is, moreover, already a rule today that the main municipality of residence must pay for the home help which a citizen may receive in another municipality when it was originally granted by the municipality of residence. So there is already a form of payment on some concrete welfare benefits. The second option proposed by the proposers is to take these considerations into account in the forthcoming revision of the compensation system as a result of the reorganization of the reimbursement system in the field of employment. We have already discussed this before in the Folketing this week, and we believe that the changes that come from the compensation system should only reflect and deal with the consequences of the reimbursement of employment. The Radical Left basically believes that the flexible housing system is a very good arrangement for the peripheral and rural municipalities, because the possibility of abolishing the residence requirement in full-year residences means that more houses in the outermost regions will be inhabited more than one part of the year instead of being empty. This means extra turnover at the grocery store, which means extra work for the local craftsmen, thus helping to create life in some of our outlying areas and rural areas. In view of these words, therefore, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153654	There is one brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153659	Did I hear the rapporteur correctly: that a possible discussion of the equalisation system must only be about the reform of employment, so that, from the point of view of the radical rapporteur, there must not be other elements of municipal expenditure and tasks that can be part of the discussion on the balance-off in the future? Or how could that be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153721	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153723	What I meant was that the negotiations which have just taken place on the modification of the system of compensation resulting from the reorganization of refunds in the field of employment are quite complicated. Therefore, this temporary adjustment has also been made and a mandate has been made for the work of the Finance Committee, which will make the changes in the compensation system that handle these things towards 2018. A number of related points are also mentioned in the terms of reference of the Financial Committee. I do not wish to deny that we have to adjust the screws in the system of subsidies and compensation; I think we should do so all the time. This is also why we look at it and also have a relatively high level of compensation, in other words to ensure that the imbalance in the municipalities' finances on both the revenue side and the expenditure side must be dealt with in the compensation system. And as I hear the authors of the motions, it is also the same objective, if I may say so, that this proposal is included.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153817	Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153818	I am very pleased to hear that there is no denying that in future the compensation can contain many different elements. Now the Danish People's Party suggested that when discussing balancing forward, you can take this proposal with you and weigh the consequences of it. Will the radical rapporteur agree that this proposal for shared municipal tax could also become part of the future compensatory debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153844	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153846	But it is already, you might say. In other words, the present system of subsidies and compensation makes sure that if there is a lot of income in a municipality of residence, where you have your primary residence and there is less income in some of these municipalities, where you may have your flex residence, there is a rather large transfer of money from one municipality to the other. So the problem we are trying to solve here seems to me to have been adequately taken into account in the present system of subsidies and compensation. However, I would not rule out including this in future adjustments to the subsidy and compensation system, if we do not think that the system we have today addresses this issue well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153924	Then there is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416153927	Well, it's just a follow-up to the issue that came from Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge on the compensation scheme and the permanent adjustment to be made in 2018. Now we also had a debate on that subject on Tuesday, and I do not remember whether it was the rapporteur who said any of the same things where I also spoke back or whether it was actually another rapporteur. But it is the politicians who decide what a permanent change in the compensation reform is, and it is the politicians who set the framework for it in that debate that it is not a refund scheme. So I think it is very defensive to say that it will not be ruled out. I think we should have a somewhat greater level of ambition. There is a need for substantial adjustments and adjustments to the compensation system................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They're sitting over in the ministry, and it's very talented and competent people, but it was probably a good idea that we had a compensation system that someone could understand the context of. That was just the mark I needed to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154029	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154030	Well, I was Mike Legarth and the Radical Left didn't share views on this matter. We are not fundamentally opposed to the equalisation system. We basically think that it is a good mechanism to ensure that, for example, rural areas, outlying areas in Denmark, where you might have a lower income base, tax base, have some opportunities to have a good life and to run a good municipality, where those who might have a flex accommodation also want to stay. So I do not think we share the view as to whether a fundamental change should be made to the compensation system. We do not want that from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154110	Sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154113	I would urge you to be a little more open than this. In other words, the fact that we have a system of compensation and that some sort of allocation of resources must take place is quite fair and quite right. But it may be that the rapporteur will just explain to me why it is so in the context of the employment reform and the reimbursement scheme that is being made that the municipality where I set up, Esbjerg, should pay most of all the municipalities in this country, more than Gentofte, more than any other municipalities in this country, no cities mentioned, no one forgotten. Does the rapporteur see any fairness in the fact that Esbjerg has to pay more than any other municipality? Does the rapporteur have a view that Esbjerg is a particularly wealthy place where it flows with milk and honey?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154202	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154204	Now, sir. Mike Legarth himself took part in the negotiations and helped to decide precisely that some restrictions were imposed on 0.1 per cent. and 0.2 per cent, in relation to how much could be lost, some ceilings of 10 million were set. kr. 20 million kr. So I think that, in that proposal, we have tried to make some loss and gain limits. We have also got a pool in the proposal that makes you a particularly difficult municipality, you can apply for some of the money in that pool. So I really think that some of these factors have been taken into account in the proposal on which we agree. And then it will always be the case, as the rapporteur knows, that when you look at the burden-sharing implications for the individual municipalities, there will always be a small loss or a small gain in some municipalities, and that is what you might say, that is how our system of subsidies and compensation is arranged.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154255	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Helge Vagn Jacobsen and gives the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Vagn Jacobsen. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154302	We understand the proposal that the SF will try to solve the problem that there are some municipalities in Denmark that have a very poor tax base and have too low incomes in relation to the expenditure they actually have. We fully agree with this issue. We helped to make the last compensatory reform, but we do not think it has fully solved the problem. I am not quite sure that it is a solution to follow the SF's proposal, I can also see that there are two different models in it; it is not the case that the SF has adopted a single model, and that is because I am not sure that the solution for many municipalities will be to create more flex housing, that is to say to stimulate that development is certainly not a solution for all municipalities that have problems with the economy. It is not the case that we are opposed to making this type of housing in some areas, but we do not think that we should actually press for economic pressure in this direction, because there are so many negative consequences of creating flex housing, including the fact that some areas of cities may be deserted for most of the year. The real solution for the municipalities that are hard-pressed is to ensure that they get some more employment, and I think that is what we should spend the most time on. I know that it may be quite hopeless in some places, but it is really the fundamental issue that needs to be resolved. But as long as there is not, as long as there is relatively higher unemployment in some municipalities than in other municipalities, and as long as there is greater social expenditure, for example, because of the fact that there is a high level of unemployment in some municipalities. In other words, we have more pensioners than in other municipalities, a problem which is really huge in some parts of the country. We have in the Enhedslisten a proposal to resolve this, and that is to introduce 100 per cent. reimbursement of social costs for the unemployed, for pensions and for similar expenses. This means that the municipalities which have many unemployed, many pensioners, are not burdened by having a very high cost because they get 100 per cent. reimbursement from the Treasury, whereas the municipalities with fewer unemployed, fewer pensioners, so in the long term, of course, will receive a smaller State grant • a shift in the state subsidy towards the fact that the money more closely follows the social costs that exist in the individual municipality. We shall then put an end to the rather strange principle on which the present system of compensation is based, namely that we must ensure that the municipalities with high unemployment receive a low refund and therefore a high cost, because then they will make more effort to get jobs. I think this is a little strange, because I think the municipalities are doing what they can to attract jobs without this bias in the reimbursement schemes. So I think we should start from the fact that some municipalities have a tough economy because of unemployment and because of a large number of people on transfer income. You can't do that from day to day. It is clear that if you suddenly take money from the municipalities with relatively low unemployment, relatively low expenditure on transfer income, and give the money to those who have the opposite, you will of course give some very large transfers of money in the country. That is why our proposal is that it should be done over a long period of time and that it should be done in the form of an increase in the block subsidy to finance the change in the reimbursement system. This is technically very difficult, but it is the way we want to go, namely to ensure that the money goes where the problem is. So we understand the problem, but we are not quite sure that this proposal is the right solution, but we would like to help try to find a solution, because there are quite objectively some problems, especially in the outskirts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154703	Thank you, sir. Frank Aaen. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154712	The motion for a resolution on shared municipal tax, depending on how much you live in one municipality and how much you live in the other municipality, might well have been supported if some sort of voting rights were also included in the municipality where you are now going to be taxed. In the United States a whole revolution was carried out on the basis of a slogan that there should be no taxation without the right to vote for the people who had to be taxed. What SF will do here is that they will tax some people who live part of the year in one municipality, without these people even being able to vote in that municipality. We already see the damage to such a proposal today. One of the most unsympathetic things that exists today in Danish tax legislation is probably the collection of land due in summer cottage municipalities. One summer cottage municipality after another charges a maximum ground debt of 34 per thousand, because the cottage residents cannot vote in the municipality. They cannot vote against the fact that there is a reason for 34 per thousand in their summer cottage. People are taxed without having the opportunity to vote on whether or not taxation is fair. This proposal is going to reinforce that. It will open up further taxation for people who cannot vote on their taxation, because it is the municipality that decides, and the municipality that decides it, they do not have the right to vote in. So it is a huge democratic problem which reinforces the already violent democratic problem that we have with people who cannot vote on the amount of the debt. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154908	There are several brief comments, but we will start with Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154916	I am always interested when the Liberal Alliance is on the platform, and that is what it is doing again today, because now you have to take the logical consequence of what you stand and say on the platform. So what are we going to change? Should we make it so that citizens with a summer cottage have the right to vote in the municipality where their summer cottage is located? I mean, do we need a split or double vote? Is that the path proposed? Or are you no longer going to pay land in the municipality where you have a land on which you have a cottage?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154952	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416154953	I'm just pointing out one problem, and that problem can be solved if you want it. However, there is no need to talk about solutions when there is a whole Parliament here who thinks that the problem I am highlighting is completely irrelevant. In principle, however, one could imagine a one-tier tax, which was applied only to the value of the property, where there was no additional ground for the double taxation of the value of the land. Then we'd be beyond that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155022	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155023	Now I think the fresh stuff came out of it again. Now you were just as rap in the line, and the visions were the table, and people should be allowed to vote where they were taxed etc. Then you jumped up like a lion and fell back down like a lamb, when you got the opportunity to tell about the visions in this. So I thought it was a little too bad. I had hoped that we would be able to get a report on whether people should have the right to vote in several places, namely where they are taxed, and whether it is a principle that the Liberal Alliance pays tribute, or whether it should simply be ensured that the municipality where there are summer houses is now being deprived of the income that comes from the summer cottage areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155100	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155102	There are two ways of solving that problem, and I outlined one. If you have taxation without the right to vote, it can be solved in two ways. One is to grant voting rights where there is taxation; the other is to abolish taxation where there is no voting right. The solution I outlined was to eliminate taxation where there is no voting rights, by converting property taxation in Denmark into a single-tier property value instead of double taxation. So I answered Mr. Simon Kollerup's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155133	Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155136	Well, it's really exciting, and I have to say, sir. Simon Kollerup came before me, but I want to ask you something, and I am revealing myself because I have not followed well enough into the policy of the Liberal Alliance in various areas. It is about the fact that money is also sent between the municipalities in Denmark, so people who pay taxes in a municipality that is rich send money through the equalisation system to the taxpayers of a municipality that is poor. Is that something the Liberal Alliance wants to do once and for all? Because I'm not really clear about that. I now give the Liberal Alliance the opportunity to tell you about their view of equalisation, because I think it is so unfortunate that if we do not get it out here, we are completely indifferent to the fact that there are municipalities, if that is the case, in the country, which have major economic problems due to the bias which, among other things, is being distorted. through our tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155232	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155234	The Liberal Alliance is not opposed to a compensatory arrangement in Denmark. We believe that there must be an equalisation which means that the municipalities with high costs, but less income, must have a helping hand from the municipalities with fewer costs, but more revenue. We can easily propose reforms to the compensation system that make it less stupid and less unfair, but we are not opposed to equalisation as a principle between municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155259	Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155302	That was a good thing, because it is a very sensible system which could, however, be made even more sensible. But since it is true that you are still in favour of the poorest municipalities having some money from the richest municipalities, and, funny enough, the poorest municipalities are very often summer cottage municipalities, how are the municipalities to be compensated if you remove the obligation of the cottage owners to pay the ground debt, which is apparently the position of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155327	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155329	However, it must be included in the compensation scheme that there has been a change as a result of changing the conditions for the recovery of the land. In other words, it is true that some municipalities are getting less because they cannot tax the summer house owners who cannot vote in the municipality. But I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, who will have the platform here later, whether it really is a very good principle that the summer cottage municipalities can raise the promill to 34, because all the summer cottages in the municipality cannot vote. Does Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge really think it is absolutely fantastic democratic?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155405	With this exciting question of principle, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen finished for today, at least with regard to this point. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155418	The motion for a resolution tabled by the SF raises a problem that we have heard from municipalities which have many summer houses in their area. In my part of the country, South and South Jutland, we also have large cottage areas where many would like an income from, because you think it would be justified. When you look at how SF will solve that problem, we cannot support the model alone because it will be impossible to make a fair distribution. This would mean that we would have to have a monitoring corps, a monitoring system that we are vertically opposed to, in order to be sure that things will be done fairly. That is why we are against, and that is why we believe that the alternative is that we must find an intelligent way of putting together the equalisation system so that we can meet the challenge that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155510	Thank you, sir. Mike Legarth. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, and this is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155532	Thank you and thank you for the debate. It is a little familiar that every time we come out and speak toasts and sit in discussion panels, we talk a lot about what serious challenges it is for the outermost regions of Denmark, and when it comes to political action, many find a lot of excuses that it is not really possible to do anything about it other than at regular intervals to argue about the equalisation system, which in many ways is a sympathetic, good and fine system. We support the changes that have been made and actually think that it is a good thing that we continue to look at the compensation system, but we are probably also where we think it is flawed and imaginative that we are not taking any more political action against these rapidly growing problems. I was able to hear the Minister say, and the radical rapporteur and the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, that it is a major problem in itself if we are to indicate on our tax return how long and to what extent we have been in our holiday home, which is situated elsewhere than where we live. As the Minister said, it would require the authorities to exercise some control over what people are giving up on their tax returns. I hope, of course, that the authorities already have some control over what people state on their tax returns, and the bureaucratic argument can always be brought forward, namely that this is a hassle and a hassle. Now equalisation is in itself a hassle and arduous, and I would like to thank you for the statement I at least understood from the Conservatives that it would help to look at all the proposals that can be thrown on the table at all, and also the statement that Enhedslisten is making a proposal for state refunds on social expenditure. In fact, when we talk about the problems of the outermost regions of Denmark, we must dare to throw all the proposals on the table so that it will be possible to achieve as fair a balance as possible in this country. I also think it was an interesting discussion that we had in relation to the Liberal Alliance's proposal to deprive holiday home owners of the obligation to pay taxes in municipalities where they do not have the right to vote, and I would like to say that, in principle, I think it is a really bad idea if holiday home owners do not have to pay a ground for their summer cottage land in the municipality where the summer house is located. The whole accusation that the municipalities are setting cottage land on the basis of something particular, because holiday home owners do not have the right to vote, seems to me to be quite a claim, and I do not agree with the Liberal Alliance's view in this area. Thank you, however, for recognising all around that we need fair compensation. I very much hope that we can throw all sorts of proposals into that debate too in the future, no matter how difficult and complicated it may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155904	At least it gave rise to one brief comment. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416155908	Yes, it is such a typical left-wing thing that if there is a reality out there that conflicts with your ideology, then you just claim it isn't there. But the reality is out there. It is known to me only summer cottage municipalities and the City of Copenhagen, which have a basic truce of 34 in Denmark. And you can imagine nothing more than that this is because in the summer cottage municipalities you benefit from the fact that all the many summer cottage owners cannot vote in the municipality, so they cannot protest against having to pay 34. Because it is funny that the surrounding municipalities to the summer cottage municipalities, which are located in the same part of the country, etc., do not have a ground toll of 34. There are only those places where there are many summer houses. So that's how it works. Then I would like to say that I have not proposed that the basic levy should be specifically taken from the municipalities of summerhouses. I have said that the problem could be solved if a change in property taxation is made across the country, so that it becomes one-tier rather than two-tiered, namely property value tax and land tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416160019	Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416160020	By Mr. Ole Birk Olesen anything about whether the people who have a summer house live in a municipality other than the municipality in which they buy the summer house? In my own municipality in Vesthimmerland, many of the summer houses are owned by people living in Vesthimmerland Municipality. Did Mr. Ole Birk Olesen numbers that support the allegations that are being ejected here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416160044	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416160045	I can certainly find figures showing that the majority of those who have a holiday home do not live in the municipality in which the holiday home is located. I don't have them on me, but I'm quite sure I can find them. In addition, as probably also Mrs Vigsø Bagge, I have spoken with local politicians in the municipalities, who have clearly said that the reason they have a reason for having a base of 34 is that they want to pick the summer houses owners. They can't vote in the municipality anyway, so it's totally free to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416160114	Mrs. Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416160116	Yes, I myself am now one of the municipal councillors who lives in such a summer cottage municipality, and that is certainly not me, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has spoken to. It must be people from the Liberal Alliance or from other right-wing parties, sir. Ole Birk Olesen refers to. At least it's not me or people I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416160132	Then we would like to thank Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge, because no more people have asked for short remarks, and no more have asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416160150	The debate is open. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416160205	Yes, as it was just saying, the motion for a resolution B 122 that we are now considering. And it will require the government to set up a so-called simplification forum for the public sector. According to the proposal, the simplification forum should be based on proposals from, inter alia: citizens and public servants help to remove superfluous rules and simplify the necessary rules to debureaucratise the public sector. I will start by ignoring the remarks made by Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge at the end of the debate on the previous point, where I think it was said at some point that the bureaucratic element can always be brought forward. I think more and more about the mood here, where the bureaucratic element is seen with much more seriousness. I would therefore also like to endorse the proposal, which contains many good elements. We share in the Government the ambition of the proposers to simplify the rules of the public sector that will benefit citizens and businesses, and that will benefit employees and the economy of the public sector. That is why, as I said, I would like to commend the SF for putting it on the agenda, but also for the many contributions made during this parliamentary term to the effect that this is actually what has happened. I must also acknowledge that, despite the many things that have happened during the parliamentary term, neither the proposers nor the government are the first to have good ambitions in this area. Over recent decades, changing governments have been working on debureaucratisation and simplification of rules in the public sector. In 1982 Poul Schlüter introduced a major regulation, and an inventory made by Weekly Letter A4 shows that since the beginning of the 1980s approx. 65,000 rules, circulars, laws and regulations. A Master's thesis from Aarhus University gives a more detailed inventory on a selection of welfare areas, which shows that in the period from 1993 to 2010 there was an increase in the total regulatory amount from 212 rules to 351 rules. This corresponds to a rule rate of 66 per cent. In the field of vulnerable children and young people, there has been a regular growth of 49 per cent between 1992 and 2010. In both welfare areas, two thirds of the added rules have been administrative procedures and process regulation. The disgraceful thing is therefore not only the growth in the number of rules, but also the fact that most of the added rules are retail managers, how the tasks of the public sector are to be solved. The previous government took well-intentioned initiatives such as "More time for welfare" and "Away with trouble" also aimed at simplifying the rules of the public sector. However, experience so far shows, I think, quite clearly, that, despite good ambitions, it is in fact a complicated exercise to debureaucratise the public sector and the working conditions of employees in earnest. Much of the debureaucratisation efforts so far are based on the idea that there are numerous unnecessary rules which can easily be simplified or removed one by one. And I will not be able to say it, but one might get the impression that it is also the main ingredient of the resolution in relation to the simplification forum; at least that is how the business forum has worked. However, although it sounds appealing and uncomplicated, I think we need to nuance the debate, because when it comes to regulatory simplification in the public sector, experience shows that it is a bit like the game that we with children know, namely that of Clumsy Major. As you know, in Clumsy Major, you have put all the blocks on top of each other, and then you have to find the blocks that can be removed from the overall structure and moved up to the top of the tower without collapse. That sounds quite straightforward, but when the simple rules collide with reality, it is after all that the problems arise. It is not so easy to find those blocks that do not contribute to the overall construction, and one should proceed carefully when tampering with a block that seems unnecessary and perhaps can be removed. If you get a wrong cliff or if you don't take into account the balance in the overall tower when you move on it, it will have very easily serious consequences for the overall construction, and in dramatic cases the tower can collapse. At the same time, the game is also getting harder and harder because all players are putting more and more blocks on top of the tower, and that is kind of what we are doing here today, with ideas for rules on both one and the other. In this way, the work on simplification may seem like Clumsy Major: Constrictingly simple on the surface, but in reality something more difficult. What we are concerned with is making a real difference when it comes to simplifying the public sector, and that is why we may also give different priorities to previous governments in the way we go to work. This is also the answer to the proposal here, where we will take a different approach. For what we believe to be fundamental is that more holistic action should be taken in the process of simplifying the rules than has been done in the past. It is rare that the rules can be removed without any implications for the rest of the chain of governance; they are often based on political agreements and compromises, knowledge and evidence or a desire to avoid errors with major or minor consequences for citizens and users. In the large welfare areas of the public sector, individual rules are often an integral part of overall governance in this area, making it both difficult and often undesirable to remove or reduce the rules without also rethinking the overall way in which an area is managed. Therefore, it has been a priority for us to think actively into the concrete policy initiatives and major reforms where there is reason to make the overall governance of an area simpler and more focused on results. The aim is therefore better governance and less bureaucracy. In this way we break down the rules in Clumsy Major: we separate the tower, we build it up again, and at the same time we use new building blocks and get rid of those that no longer give value and thus we get a better construction. In fact, the reform of the schools is a good example. By rethinking the governance and simplifying the rules, we will strengthen the focus on the results with three clear overall policy objectives: the Folkeskole must challenge all pupils so that they become as skilled as possible; the Folkeskole must reduce the importance of social background in relation to professional achievements; and the confidence and well-being of the Folkeskole must be strengthened, among other things. through respect for professional knowledge and practice. In this way we have become a little sharper on what the primary school should be doing, and at the same time we have given it more local freedom to achieve its objectives. We have simplified the common goals so that it becomes clearer for teachers, managers, parents and school boards and pupils which learning objectives the teaching aims are towards. The student plans will be simplified and further developed so that teachers will experience less extensive student plans in the future, where there is no requirement for all subjects to be mentioned in the curriculum for all years. We remove a number of procedural rules, and this means, among other things, that there will be a simpler management of hours, better opportunities for joint management between institutions and a more flexible framework for the class teacher function. It is all something that gives greater local freedom to organise the work. And we have also, as everyone seems to have discovered, simplified the agreements, so there has been room for real management of the primary school. The same overall perspective forms the basis for the governance and regulation review of the welfare areas that we have been working on since 2013. The purpose of these controls is to ensure consistency between results, knowledge of what works and the rules in the field in question. To date, we have carried out pilot projects in the fields of employment, day-to-day provision and adult social services. The results of the examination of employment legislation have contributed to debureaucratisation in the context of the employment reform, where the municipalities are now getting considerably more freedom to organise more individual and meaningful action for the unemployed. There is still considerable work ahead in relation to the debureaucratisation of the public sector. On many stretches, however, I am sure that we will go further along this path and get a better and more efficient public sector out of it. In the government we are well aware that our initiatives and Slotsholmen's knowledge cannot stand alone. And in the same way as the existing rules have sprung up locally... many of them at least... we also urgently need locally anchored initiatives and knowledge to develop a modern public sector. That is why I would also like to acknowledge that these are positive ingredients in the proposal to set up a simplification forum. It is true that the involvement of knowledge and experience from employees in the public sector and from citizens to support association work is a crucial factor. In the Government's ambition to simplify and renew the public sector, we also think actively into the work of public employees and citizens' perspectives. With the reform of confidence, we have good and constructive cooperation with the public labour market partners on modernising the public sector, which is putting the employees' perspective into play, also in relation to regulatory simplification. With the free municipality experiments, nine municipalities contribute, i.e.: local politicians, leaders and employees in the municipalities, to modernise and debureaucratise the public sector. And with the right to challenge, municipalities and regions, as well as all municipal and regional institutions, can apply for derogations from both state and local and collective rules to test new and less bureaucratic forms of governance. Then we do so-called management review, e.g. in the hospital area, where we illuminate the workflows of five hospital wards. Here, the staff can identify the management barriers they experience in the day to day, and their knowledge is analysed in the context of overall management in the hospital area. The results of this will be included in the 2016 economic agreements and in the new thinking of quality management in the hospital area. With an ambition to improve local democracy, the government has among other things: taken the initiative to enter into binding cooperation with KL and Danske Regions to create greater local space through simplified consultation rules. The government will provide better space to bring into play the experience of citizens and companies and organisations through strengthened local involvement, including in the work of renewing the public sector. In addition, the many positive simplification efforts undertaken by municipalities and regions as well as the individual public jobs of their own operations have been initiated. Their efforts are both appreciated and necessary in order to create simplifications that can be felt by citizens, companies and public servants alike. Overall, the government fully supports the proposers' ambition to simplify the public sector. We welcome the successful cooperation we have had to do so during this reign, and the government is also working actively to involve the knowledge and ideas of citizens and public employees in the work of developing a modern public sector forward-looking. Therefore, despite this consensus and the good ambitions that lie in the proposal, we think that the right path is a more holistic approach in the process of simplifying the public sector regulation than that contained in the proposal here. That is what we call a confidence reform under a single heading, and that is why we cannot support the proposal to set up a genuine simplification forum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161248	Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161250	Thank you very much for a very, very thorough review of virtually everything that has happened in the last four years. It is true that some of what happened was that we were given the Enterprise Forum, which the Minister also mentioned, which received 460 proposals for simplifications. There are 155 of the proposals that have been implemented, 162 which have been partially implemented and 74 are under consideration. This must be said to be very good, even if we are talking about the private sector here. The Minister talks a lot about holistic action, and I think it is quite right that that is what is needed. But what exactly is it in this proposal that prevents holistic action? I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161338	What I was trying to explain to you in the extensive reply that was precisely designed to take seriously the ambition that we share was that it has been the ambition, and that it has been tried many times over time to add a rule and to undo one when someone pointed to it. But it has not prevented a strong growth in it. Therefore, the holistic effort is about looking at how we can do away with control in an area, so that we set ourselves a few clear goals and so to speak count backwards and look at what rules are then needed, instead of the thing about pulling one off or adding one or putting on an elastic band or pulling out an elastic band where someone has previously put it on the basis of a discussion that was held 5 or 10 years ago. And that is the point here: the holistic approach is to make a fundamental review of what control is in an area, what objectives we have, and whether the many rules and process regulations that are contribute to the objective or whether they can be spared from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161434	Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161435	Although I'm really happy to play Clumsy's it seems funny to me, maybe it's a little overkill to call our proposal a game of Clumsy's, if that's what the minister is doing. Because, as I said, the experience with the Enterprise Forum has been very good and although you cannot transfer it directly to the public sector, I do not quite get an answer to what it is about this proposal, which prevents you from looking at the whole structure, looking at the whole picture, looking at the whole structure of a particular area. There's nothing in this proposal to prevent that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161513	After all, it is about how to organise the work of getting a modern public sector, where we give employees the freedom to perform their tasks within a framework of solid professional ballast and clear objectives. And that's where we estimate that this is the approach, where you may not start by finding a single rule that you think is superfluous, but instead of the way in which the Enterprise Forum has been working on the area by sector, when you make reforms that have led to us in the field of employment, which has otherwise been the subject of much discussion and also attempts to debureaucratize over time, having implemented a reform that KL called the biggest debureaucratisation in the history of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161552	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line. It's first, sir. Finn Thranum on the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161557	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we welcome the debate on debureaucratisation in the public sector. An efficient and service-oriented public sector is essential for a well-functioning society. That is why we must also take action in those areas where procedures and rules make it difficult for citizens and public servants. Rules shouldn't exist for the sake of the rules. Therefore, the inappropriate rules that exist in the public sector should be reduced. Unnecessary bureaucracy should be eliminated as far as possible. In the Left, therefore, we agree entirely with the authors of the motion for a resolution that the debate needs to be discussed. It would be useful to use the words of the SF's proposal that it is sympathetic, but it has, as it were, been used a number of times during the last debates, including by myself, so I will refrain from doing so. It can then be said that the SF's proposals could be tempting immediately. Having said that, however, we do not believe that the specific resolution and the model proposed are the right means of achieving the objective of debureaucratisation. The proposal envisages that everyone should be able to make proposals for regulatory simplifications, but in our ears it sounds in itself a very bureaucratic and time-consuming method. The public sector is a highly tense issue in the population and it must be assumed that the possibility of everyone making proposals for simplification will create a great deal of work for the authorities entrusted with the task of examining the proposals. It is obviously not an optimal solution to combat bureaucracy with a proposal that potentially contributes to more bureaucracy. Another fundamental problem with the motion for a resolution concerns funding, because following our concern about an increase in the workload, it is problematic that the proposal does not deal with how this work can be financed. The funding of a simplification forum, which may prove to be a very laborious arrangement, is at the heart of the Left. That is why I have to say that the authors of the motion for a resolution should have considered precisely the financing. To conclude, I can say that the Left shares the objective of making the public sector more efficient and debureaucratic, but with the proposed method of a simplification forum and because of the lack of funding, we cannot support the proposal. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161909	Sir. Frank Aaen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161911	It is just the simple question that when you are in favour of de-bureaucratisation, but at the same time I have understood that more outsourcing and privatisation, which always means introducing new control mechanisms to make sure that the private supplier delivers the goods, is there not a contradiction in that? Does the rapporteur of the Left, like the rapporteur, see a contradiction between saying that we are in favour of debureaucratisation and at the same time talking about outsourcing, which means more bureaucracy in my view?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416161948	Yes, I and the Left are very much in favour of the provision of some of the public tasks, if and when you get a product that is equivalent or better, at the same or a more reasonable, lower price. In my world, offering something to someone else is not necessarily the same as prioritising control. I have never understood why, if it is a private supplier who supplies the goods, it must be more vigilant than if it is a municipal employee who does. I just never understood that. However, for nearly 41 years now I have been dealing with the ambulance service, which is under private control, and this has been done. It is one of the most personal things that is, and it has to be said that there is no doubt that a product is most often delivered which is very good. So I do not quite understand the arguments put forward by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162046	Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162047	I am glad that we were just added to the 'oftest' because it turns out that some of the municipal ambulance services have been there, among other things. Here in Copenhagen, has delivered the best and fastest product compared to private suppliers. But what is only my point is that when you have it in the public domain, you have both a management right, and you also have an increased possibility of trusting the employee because no one has to make money. They just have to do their job sensibly, whereas just as soon as you have a private supplier, there's a big plus on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162124	Well, that's where we're just basically as different from each other as we can be that we stand in separate camps. Now I do not suppose that the President will allow us to enter into a debate on who provides the best ambulance service, because of course I strongly disagree with what the questioner said here about the municipal fire service and then private suppliers. I think everyone actually provides a nice and good service. However, I believe that the public and the private have a good interaction, and we need to think much more about public-private partnerships in terms of solving the tasks. So the fact that you're just the best because you're a public employee, I totally disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162207	Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162209	It was not so many nice words that the proposal was included on the road anyway, I think. And now that we remain in the relationship between the private and the public sector, I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Left about the time when the SF contested the office of Minister for Business and Growth and we set up the Enterprise Forum, which has made it more efficient and simplified in the private sector. A great deal more than 200 of the proposals for simplification in the private sector have been implemented. Is it to be understood that if the accident were really out and the Left came to power after the next elections, the Enterprise Forum, which is just looking at regulatory simplifications in the private sector, would be removed from the forum for which this proposal was made?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162258	I can't imagine that I can't give a specific answer to that. I cannot rule it out, nor can I guarantee it, because it is not an area that I, as it were, am in the policy of the Left. However, I would insist that I actually think that I actually spoke to some extent nicely about the proposer's proposal. It is true that I then made some beemarks which ended up in that I suggest that we on the Left do not support it. But that was a slightly different interpretation that the questioner gave.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162333	Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162334	Okay, that's fair enough. Perhaps the rapporteur of the Left spoke a little nicely about the fact that we have the same objective, namely to simplify and streamline to a certain extent, at least in the public sector. The Left cannot support this proposal, which is about creating a forum for simplifications, just as a regulatory simplification forum has been created in the private sector. Now the big question will be in the revelation, because we heard nothing about this: what is it that the Left wants to do in terms of debureaucratising and making the public sector more efficient when this does not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162409	Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162410	There is no doubt that the Left will very much, if and if we get the power of government after the next elections, go in and look very much at this subject. To come up with a complete plan and a complete solution to this from the platform I do not feel able to, apart from the fact that I have these opinions on it from the heart. So it's going to be taken care of, and we're going to look to a large extent at a regulatory simplification of this whole area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162438	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then we go straight to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162446	Thank you. In fact, we share the aim of the proposers to remove superfluous rules and simplify the necessary rules in order to debureaucratise the public sector, and, contrary to the rapporteur from the Left, I would like to say that I think this is in many ways a sympathetic proposal. After all, the government has set itself the objective of making 12 billion more efficient. kr. in the public sector by 2020, because we need to give more priority to resources on core welfare and results rather than processes and controls. Here, regulatory simplifications and, above all, debureaucratisation are good tools to use. I just don't think we should pretend to each other that this is an easy exercise. Often it turns out that there are actually good reasons why rules have been introduced, but we must, of course, do the exercise, and that is why the government has also taken a number of initiatives that need to move in the right direction. Let me just mention a few of the initiatives taken by the government. I am not going to go through the long list which, if you are interested, can be read in the Minister's speech, but first of all the government is working firmly and purposefully to constantly think about the issue of simplifications in the political initiatives and reforms that we are making. Here we can highlight, as the Minister also did, the reform of primary schools, where we have just strengthened the focus on the results and removed a number of these procedural rules. In addition, the government has launched governance reviews in selected welfare areas, where employment and integration are of course important. From 2012 we have introduced free municipalities, where the aim is to allow municipalities to test new, better and smarter ways to manage the task solution. Despite a healthy political scepticism about the birth of experiments, this has been a success, which is why, as you know, we have also chosen to prolong the experiments. Several of the free municipalities experiments have confirmed to us that when we direct the public task solution towards results such as service level and quality rather than process requirements, there will be room for increased innovation and modern forms of management. Following the evaluation of the free community experiments, we decide which experiments may lead to regulatory simplifications in general and spread across the country. In addition, as you know, we still have the right to challenge, where municipalities, regions and their institutions can apply for derogations from the rules in force. With the public labour market confidence reform, we set up seven principles for cooperation on how to modernise the public sector. The principles involve managers as well as employees in promoting public performance, focusing on trust, cooperation, results, efficiency, innovation, quality and professionalism. With these examples I think it is clear that the government has a huge focus on regulatory simplifications and debureaucratisation, just as we also want citizens and employees to be involved in the development of the public sector. With these comments, I should therefore like to say that the Socialists cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled, but that we fully share the ambition of the proposers and the aim of simplifying the public sector, which is why we have already put more ships in the sea, all of which contribute to that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162835	Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162838	Thank you very much. Can the rapporteur confirm that there is not one place in the country, in other words a forum where everyone can make their proposals for regulatory simplifications in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162856	I think, in fact, that I will be a little sloppy and say that this forum does exist. It's called public service. It also lies in what the government has done precisely to strengthen the opportunities for employees and citizens to play with the public to streamline and simplify rules. This is the whole confidence reform that we have undertaken together with the public labour market partners, the heads of public institutions in regions and municipalities, etc. and the employees. It is precisely an expression of the fact that we constantly have the opportunity to challenge the rules that exist. I have also mentioned the attempts at free municipalities and the right to challenge. So maybe it is a bit frantic, but I would nevertheless say that I actually think that the way we think about improving the efficiency of the public sector offers the opportunity to speak out all around.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162946	Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416162947	No, there is no such single forum where everyone can turn to it. To the Enterprise Forum, which has only existed since spring 2012, and which is one entry point where everyone can make proposals for regulatory simplifications, 460 proposals have been made in the private sector since then. That's a lot, a lot. Can the rapporteur not confirm that there is no single single forum where good proposals for regulatory simplifications can be made in the public sector, so one single forum rather than the public sector as a huge cluster of places to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20150416163025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416163027	When I say at the outset that I actually think it is a sympathetic proposal, it is because I think that we want the same thing, namely that we want to simplify and streamline rules. Then I don't understand why you're so surprised that there's got to be something you can call a forum. Because there's an opportunity. I do not know how many hundreds of free municipalities we have set in motion to try to make things smarter and simplify the way in which the public sector is run in the municipalities. The trust reform unfolds a whole range of possibilities where the focus is on the skills of the employees with confidence that you can handle the assignment best locally if there is confidence in the employees. So I actually think that we are doing it all the way around what is then called a conspiracy in the public sector. But instead of being so quick to set up a very specific forum, I believe that it is the thinking of the management of the public sector that is important. In fact, I think, as I have also tried to explain, and as the Minister has also done, that we have come very, very far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416163123	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416163135	Thank you. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I am going to read a rapporteur's speech on behalf of our rapporteur, Morten Marinus, who unfortunately could not be present in the Chamber today. SF proposes a so-called "Simplification Forum' for the public sector. This forum, as stated in the proposal, must be based on the proposals made by citizens and employees to simplify rules and remove unnecessary rules and bureaucracy in the public sector. The Danish People's Party agrees with the idea of removing rules that are superfluous and making regulatory simplifications that remove public bureaucracy. That is necessary, but it is not new either. It is, after all, a work that has been tried several times before in the reign of different governments with very different results. In the Danish People's Party, we would very much like to be involved in a process that can put an end to the complicated or superfluous rules. However, whether this work should be designed, as the SF proposes in this resolution, by taking as its starting point the experience of the Enterprise Forum and doing it in the same way, we are not yet convinced of it. Since, as I have said, attempts have been made to solve the problem several times, and since more laws and rules are constantly being introduced, it is not a task that will ever be completed. However, in the Danish People's Party we want to ensure that we get as good tools as possible before we choose which model the work should take place under the auspices and how the work will be designed. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party recommend that before new initiatives of this nature are started, the methods used by our neighbouring countries in similar processes should be examined and some of the experiences can be involved in the work that we are going to do in Denmark. The Danish People's Party will therefore initially in the committee ask whether we can obtain information about experiences from similar processes in other European countries. We are prepared to enter into a dialogue and, of course, we also think that there is common sense behind the resolution. We have no doubt about the well-intentioned intentions in it, but what we need to be sure of is that what we put in the lake is also the right model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416163348	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416163356	Thank you. The Radical Left is very concerned about what we spend tax dollars on in municipalities and regions and in the state, and they should not be spent on unnecessary bureaucratic rules, and we fully agree with the SF on this. We also agree that there has been good experience with the Enterprise Forum set up by the government, which has meant that more than 300 simplifications of rules against companies have been implemented. That is why a number of municipalities are already carrying out quite thorough reviews of rules and procedures in order to clean them up. Often these are rules that have actually been decided themselves, and not necessarily rules that result from the legislation of Christiansborg. It is also increasingly working with a confidence agenda in the municipalities, where both politicians, officials and trade unions have agreed to show greater confidence that managers and employees, in cooperation with users and citizens, can find the good solutions, and that not everything needs to be written down in circulars and guidelines, so trust that skilled managers and employees with the elderly, with the addict, with the parents of the vulnerable child, find the right effort to move forward. And that's the way it's supposed to be. The government has already carried out a number of governance and regulation reviews of welfare areas, e.g.: in the area of day-to-day provision, adult social services, health care and in the area of the insured unemployed, and this has led to concrete simplifications. In 2015, a review of the regulation affecting the integration of refugees and immigrants will be carried out. With free municipalities' attempts, inappropriate rules have been made and the challenge right, whereby municipalities and regions can apply for derogations from state rules, has resulted in 900 requests for derogations from 2008-2001, half of which have actually been granted, and a number of applications have resulted in general simplifications in all 98 municipalities. With regard to democracy, which is also important, the local consultations have been reviewed, and it is regrettable that 125 different consultation provisions have been found across ministerial areas. Therefore, the government, together with KL and Danske Regioner, has also taken the initiative to simplify the law on hearings. If we are to look at legislation, I will mention just two areas: employment and the school area, where there have been significant simplifications of previous legislation, and this has been done on the one hand with the reform of employment and on the other with the reform of primary schools, which the Minister has already touched on. I mention all these things because I think they are actually good examples of how the government, the regions and the municipalities have already started to simplify and remove superfluous rules. And that work must continue if it is for the Radical Left. But we do not think it is necessary to set up another forum in order to continue this journey which has already been initiated by the present government. So the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416163704	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen speaking for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416163711	Thank you. Unlike others who are sympathetic to the proposal, we will allow sympathy to be followed by the fact that we can also vote in favour of it and support it. I think it is a good idea to have such a place where you can allow ideas to be aired and presented and tested. Having said that, I would like to say that if we had written the proposal, we would have put a little more emphasis on more democracy in the workplace. That is what it says, and that is why I can support it. In reality, however, I believe that more confidence should be placed in the welfare sector that employees and users together can solve the problems in the best possible way and achieve good results. You have to stop the mistrust that we see so many places where they need to have rules all the time, and there has to be some control and that sort of thing. But we should leave it more to the staff and those who need the help that is provided, and I think that more emphasis should be placed on that. I remember an example I think it was from Funen where part of the home help was reorganised to be autonomous groups. They said: Here, here, here, you must manage this area, you must develop the home help work that is needed in collaboration with the user, and you must find out for yourself how to distribute the guards, and you must find out for yourself if there is a need to switch around a little. And in general: Try to see if you and the users can make this area work. It turned out that the joy of work grew; the absence of sick people among the employees decreased; the amount of medication allocated to users decreased; the number of hospitalizations for users decreased. There was success on all parameters. And it was a very good attempt that was set in motion there. It was slowed down by the fact that it was then ordered that everything should be out of the contract and that suddenly you had to create a different structure in the way you made things work and that you had to compare with a private provider of services. It was devastating and I want to say that it is an important thing. I mean, we've all been able to say that we're against the rule tyranny thing. I don't know anyone in the Folketing who's not against rule tyranny. I would say that the Danish Parliament has simply adopted a long series of rule tyrannical provisions. But if, in addition, we leave things more to those who do the work and those who need the work in question, then I think we will come quite a long way. That is also why I had the short exchange of words before with the Left rapporteur on outsourcing. In my view, outsourcing is one of the worst things in terms of being able to trust employees and users. Now it is not because I believe that falck savers and many other sensible people working in the private sector are not doing a good job as well. There is no such distrust that if you're a private employee, you're an idiot and if you're a public employee, you're good. There is a good mix of it all, but there is the crucial difference in management, namely that if you have a public task, management can be given to local management, employees and user involvement much more safely. For there you do not have the yoke of the private sector, that is to say that money must be made. I think that is a crucial difference. It is not because the people in the private sector are bad, but having to make money making welfare benefits can sometimes, if it pinchs a little with the bottom line, make companies cheat on the weight. We have also seen some examples of this here recently, where private companies go bankrupt, and suddenly there is no home help. We also have to control as soon as there is money in it in the way that there is when a task has been privatised. So there's money in it. Then you also have to check whether you get the benefit you pay for. If you don't do it, it's gonna go wrong. That is why there is an inherent bureaucracy in the award, which I think is harmful. So we're just gonna have to put it in this forum, too. In any case, it is perhaps a rule that you should not outsource the tasks that are more or less laid down for you to do today. However, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164213	Thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and then it is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. I see now that after closing time a brief comment has been made, but I see that it can be made by Mr Beazley. Finn Thranum refrain. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164230	This motion for a resolution is aimed at creating a simplification forum for the public sector, and it refers to the experience of a similar forum for the private sector, which deals with the rules and bureaucracy of the public sector that are being lowered over private companies, and we are in favour of this proposal. We welcome the fact that the SF and the Enhedslist, with this proposal and with the support of the proposal, are also going into the field of recognising that not everything in the public sector is run equally efficiently and equally well and with the absolutely fantastic rules, and that things can be done better and cheaper if we simplify and de-bureaucracy without compromising the service, yes, you might even imagine that it will be cheaper, while the service is getting better. It is, after all, a central part of the policy of the Liberal Alliance which is normally rejected on the left at all. It is said that every time you limit public spending, some weak people or some people who use the public sector will suffer. We can then note with this proposal that the left does not always think so. It is only when the Liberal Alliance stands on the platform that the Left believes it; when the Left itself stands on the platform, it is well believed that it can be done to make the public sector cheaper without it getting worse. But, of course, it's gonna work, and there we're kind of on the bottom of it, 'cause is this gonna work? Will this result in the money being put into this simplification forum being used appropriately to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy, control and regulation in the public sector? Or will the simplification forum itself mean that money is spent unnecessarily so that it does not have sufficient effect and that this simplification forum really should not have been set up at all, because it does not work? I don't think it's possible to find out if this is going to work or not working without testing it, and that's why I'm leaning towards it. But we in the Liberal Alliance have not yet taken a complete final position; we would like to wait for the debate here and hear the arguments. But I think the arguments have been excellent, so I will go up and recommend to my parliamentary group that we vote for it. But it may be that I'm being overruled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164512	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164519	Thank you, President. Yes, even in the Conservative People's Party, we look into a case when SF or others from the red block go on the agenda of simplifying rules, making things easier, better and cheaper. We think this is a very positive agenda, so far we have full support for it. We have missed that support in the past. Indeed, we believe that much of the efficiency that could come out of this kind of thing happens, for example, by outsourcing, by getting private companies into the field to win tenders and to show a way other than the habit that has sometimes been said, without negative references to anyone. That's just the way it is. In relation to the way in which it is done in the public sector, it is often appropriate that there should be new blood, fresh forces and that we should get someone who looks at things differently to try to assess whether the matter can be resolved in a more simple, rigorous way. But it's nice to see that SF is now on the field. You will support it with this approach, and I could say a lot of positive things about that, and I have done the same. The back of the medal, I think, is that this seems like a very bureaucratic forum, a costly process to start with. And if SF had now, at the same time as this, had had a goal that the public sector should not become bigger, that we did not increase public consumption in this process, then we would have supported it, but we are afraid that with this we will create a new administrative monster, as the SF gets the desire they have, which is actually good and with which we agree. We just don't think the model is right. SF would then have had an idea that we should minimise the public sector, maintain the public sector in its size, and create efficiency and rationalisation in this context, then we think it had had once on the ground. So if SF wants to add it to its proposal, we are interested in looking into it afterwards. But as it stands here, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164730	A brief remark from Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164732	Thank you. I have two questions. The first is: when did the Conservatives miss support from the SF for a regulatory simplification in the public domain? Can the rapporteur give us anything concrete about this? The second relates to the fact that the Enterprise Forum has been in existence since 2012 and proved incredibly effective in collecting proposals for regulatory simplifications in the private sector, and that it has succeeded in abolishing a large number of rules, in fact over 200, over the three years. Does the KF really believe that this represents a step backwards with the Enterprise Forum? I was just about to say reality forum, welcome to the reality forum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164819	I fully recognise that the SF has that agenda and has also had it. After all, we do not think it has been enough, and that is why we have missed the fact that we could have gone hand in hand with that agenda. And the hand-in-hand agreement that could have done that we had backed up fully had been that you would also take in the outsourcing part. Because that's what we think it takes to create the gain, the effect. The starting point must be that it will be simpler, easier and cheaper, and we do not think that can happen without involving the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164853	Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164855	Now we are discussing the simplification of rules, which is why I ask quite specifically: when did the Conservatives miss support from the SF for a proposal for regulatory simplification in the public sector? I do not believe that it has ever happened that the Conservatives have put forward a proposal to simplify rules in the public sector to which the SF has voted against. In fact, I think that is the opposite of what is happening. Whether we are talking about national tests in primary school or whether we are talking about more control in relation to mandatory morning songs in primary school and such, I think it is in fact the opposite. However, it may be that the Conservative rapporteur can give some concrete examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416164935	As I said, I am quite sure that there are many things we have agreed on, and that is something I commend. But there are also things on which we disagree. And when we talk about rules, we also have to define what a rule is. I mean, we're gonna make it, for example. would remove a 6-percent tax on what is termed "intermediate tax" is that a rule? This is certainly an administrative obstacle which provides a lot of bureaucracy and work in the public sector, which would be facilitated by not having it. We did so without SF's help and support. We also want to remove the top tax; then there is no need for hands to calculate it. We also want to get rid of the inheritance tax; nor do we think there is any reason to have it. We would like to make our tax system more simple and transparent and easier to deal with for both citizens and businesses. So that way there are many things that I'm sure SF doesn't define quite the same way. One can be absolutely sure that when we talk about rules and administration, about administrative burdens for business and citizens, including families, then we agree. We just think that the model set out in this motion for a resolution lacks the element that we should not expand the public sector. We think this proposal will do that because so many initiatives need to be launched to implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416165042	Thank you. Finally, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416165047	I am pouring out on the platform to thank you very much for the debate on the simplification and efficiency of the public sector. Thank you for the Minister and the government's relatively good reception of the proposal, and we are very pleased about that. And it is quite clear that we in the Left do not know where we have, even in this area, because it was not possible to get the rapporteur of the Left to give some concrete examples of where the Left would take action to simplify rules. Conservatives would like to abolish large parts of the tax system. It is the most far-reaching simplification that has been heard for a long time, but that is the case. So, in the SF, it was surprisingly positive to see 460 proposals for simplification in the private sector in these three years, because we have set up the Enterprise Forum. 155 proposals have been fully implemented, 162 proposals have been implemented in part and 74 proposals are under consideration. There are then 69 proposals which, for various reasons, have not been implemented. But all in all, there has proved to be a really good harvest. Having one forum where people I had almost said from near and far and from high and low can come up with proposals for simplifications, simplifications and debureaucratisations has actually proved to be a success. And why not transfer it to the public sector, which all eight parties seem to agree is totally overburdened with rules and bureaucracy, which we cannot seriously contain? I am very pleased that so many positive tactics have been indicated in relation to the proposal. I wish the Liberal Alliance Ole Birk Olesen every success in convincing the Liberal Alliance parliamentary group that this is a proposal to be supported. And then I hope that, even if it didn't go through smoothly, this is something that a future government will take up no matter what color it may have... will take up as a constructive proposal for effective regulatory simplification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416165257	Thank you to the rapporteur. And don't fall off the platform. Pernille Vigsø Tray I'll try not to). No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150416165319	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, April 17, 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
