ParlaMint-DK_20150121130000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 114 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities. Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 55 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up a Commission for Foreign Affairs). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I shall then inform you that those of Mr. Jacob Jensen (V) under nr. Questions to the Minister for Finance (Question No 2 and 4) S 538 and S 540) are deleted from today's agenda at the request of the author. The questions will be answered next week's Question Time, Wednesday 28 January.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121130053	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until tomorrow, Thursday 22 January 2015. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr President. Johan Lund Olsen from IA to justify the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121130127	Thank you, sir. President. On January 21, 1968, Pituffik Airport/Thulebaseen became world famous and appeared on the front page of the world's leading news media. This happened when an American B 52 bomber loaded with four hydrogen bombs crashed just off Pituffik/Thule Air Base. At the opening debate of the Folketing in 1956, Greenland's first parliamentarian asked after the amendment of the constitution in 1953, Mr. Augo Lynge, if it wasn't time and possible to get a tax on the American bases in Greenland. The money was badly needed, for example for investment in the fishing industry. The then Prime Minister did not think it was fortunate that the defence of Danish territory was considered from a commercial point of view. Today, January 21, 2015, Pituffik is again on the agenda here in the Folketing as many times before. The question today is whether there are still business considerations, the consideration of Danish special interests against the consideration of Greenland and its population. The world has changed, and Greenland now has autonomy. Greenland has also resigned from the then EC and the current EU a long time ago. As a starting point, therefore, EU law does not apply to Greenland and its citizens either. I, from IA and Nick Nielsen from Siumut, have therefore taken the initiative in this question debate, and we ask the Foreign Minister to respond to the following: What can the Foreign Minister inform about the process up to and the outcome of the latest tender of the service contract for Thule Air Base, including what the Minister will do to ensure the current terms and conditions of pay and employment? And what does the government intend to do to the US authorities in order to ensure that Thulebasen will continue to contribute revenue to Greenland's national treasury as before? And how will the Minister ensure the preservation of current apprenticeships and jobs for Greenlanders and Danes, according to the importance of Thulebasen contributing to Greenlandic society as described in the letter of 9 December 2013 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the US Embassy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121130403	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is the Foreign Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121130415	Thank you very much. Let me begin by thanking the authors of the questions for the opportunity you have given us today for having this debate in the Folketing. This is an important matter, both for Denmark and for Greenland, and it is also demonstrated by the fact that we have a visit from Greenland to this debate. It is a member of the National Government for Foreign Affairs, Vittu Quijaukitsoq, who is in the Danish Parliament today, and this morning I have had the opportunity to discuss the matter again with Vittu Qujaukitsoq, where we agreed to continue the close Danish-Greenland cooperation that we have had in this matter. I will then have to prepare the Danish Parliament for some of what I am going to say, perhaps to sound a little familiar, and that explains why I have so far answered no less than 39 questions in the matter, and in addition we have also had a good discussion of the matter in the consultation in the Greenland Committee on 5 December last year, but it makes good sense to have the debate here in the Danish Parliament as well. Like the previous speaker, I would also like to begin by looking back to 1951 when the close cooperation between Greenland and Denmark, on the one hand, and the United States, on the other, was formalised by the conclusion of the so-called defence agreement. This agreement agreed on the overall framework for the American defence presence in Greenland. The defence agreement is a component of the transatlantic security structure, which should prove to be of great importance in the many decades to come. The Thule Base has thus made a significant contribution to ensuring common security and transatlantic stability, and it still does, even though the world has changed significantly. Among other things: Through Thulebasen, Greenland and Denmark have contributed to the maintenance of our collective This is a cooperation which goes both ways. The emphasis has therefore also been placed on the fact that the American presence has come and continues to benefit Greenland and Greenlandic society. This applies not only financially but also on the personnel side. It has been established in several amendments to the agreement that workers who are not Danish or American nationals can only be recruited on the base in exceptional circumstances, and in this respect it has been assumed that American soldiers have been deployed on the base throughout the years. At the same time, however, we have emphasized from Greenlandic and Danish sides that the many civilian support services, which a base of such a nature also needs, use Greenlandic and Danish labour as much as possible. This is among other things. in the two cooperation forums, the Permanent Committee and the Joint Committee, that Greenland and Denmark constantly ensure that the American presence benefits Greenland and Greenlandic society. It is therefore also here that we regularly keep the Americans firm that as far as possible Danish and Greenlandic labour should be used on the base. We have so far done so, and we will continue to do so. As regards the service contract at Thulebasen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has certified interested tenderers in previous bidding rounds to confirm that the companies fulfilled the condition of Greenlandic-Danish affiliation. On the basis of enquiries from companies and lawyers about the understanding of the claim for Danish-Greenland membership and the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the US tender at Thulebasen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked in the summer of 2013 for an opinion from the DA on the procurement and EU law issues. On the basis of a statement from the Chamber Attorney and meetings in the autumn of 2013, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs came to the conclusion that Denmark could not continue to treat Danish companies more than other EU companies in the performance of Danish external relations. The lawyer considered that the requirement for the use of Danish companies and workers in this situation is, as a starting point, direct discrimination under the Treaty rules on the free movement of workers and the rules on the free movement of services. When something under EU law is direct discrimination, all experience shows that the result is often actions from private individuals with claims for damages. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not want to expose the Kingdom community to that risk. However, when it came to safeguarding Greenland's interests, it was also the opinion of the Attorney General and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there was greater legal room for manoeuvre, because Greenland, as we know, is not a member of the European Union. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs therefore initiated discussions with the United States to examine how we could adapt the procedure for the supply of the service agreement at Thulebasen in a way that maintained the status quo, understood the way that the American presence continues to benefit Greenland and Greenlandic society, i.e.. maintaining the status quo for the sake of Greenlandic, not Danish interests. This also happened in close contact with Greenland's authorities, who have been involved in the whole process. Firstly, it should be made clear in the contractual framework that the requirement for the company to be Danish-Greenlandish is justified by a desire to ensure Greenland and Greenlandic society the maximum benefit from the cooperation on Thulebasen. Secondly, the update should create a clearer distribution of roles, in which, among other things, it should: was a consideration that Denmark should no longer have a certification role that could be contrary to EU law. Therefore, it was agreed that the USA should take over the certification role. As far as the new contract is concerned, this is therefore an American invitation to tender under US procurement rules in a closed bidding round. The 2013 criteria, the exchange of letters between Denmark and the United States, are included in the US tender terms. They constitute a binding requirement governed by US procurement law and subject to US procedures and jurisdiction. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Greenland's autonomy were therefore informed of the first outcome of the tender after the American decision had been taken. And in this respect, for the sake of good order, I also have to make it clear that it is not the Danish Government's job to secure the location of a particular company in a tendering round. What the government can expect, and what we have, is cooperation which goes both ways. P.t. As you know, the case is being examined by the US Complaints Office after a number of companies which have also submitted offers but have not been selected have objected to the decision. I expect the prosecution to publish the outcome of its proceedings by mid-February at the latest. Since this is an American tender, it is not a matter for the Danish Government to interfere in such a complaint. It is therefore important for me to stress that I cannot comment on the specific complaint pending. However, as I have also had the opportunity to explain at the conciliation meeting on 5 December 2014 and, incidentally, in my replies to a number of committee questions, I can say in general that we have raised the matter with the Americans at a high level. If mistakes have been made, they must, of course, be corrected. The question specifically asks what I will do to ensure the current terms and conditions of employment. To this I can generally state that the company that ends up winning the offer must comply with the applicable rules and laws in Greenland. This, of course, also includes the labour market area. Having said that, I must at the same time point out that the labour market area has been taken over by Greenland. Greenland's Landsting thus has the legislative competence in this area, and Greenland's Home Government has the executive competence. There is also a question of what the government will do to ensure that Thulebasen continues to contribute revenue to the treasury. First of all, the complaint has not yet been closed, so it is not possible for me to comment on the outcome of the procurement process. Secondly, I would like to point out that, on the basis of the current information, there is no reason to conclude that a new service contract would, in principle, involve a greater financial loss for Greenland than that part of the surplus that Greenland's autonomy has hitherto had, i.e. through the co-ownership of Greenland Contractors by the self-governance of Greenland. As mentioned, one of the requirements for a new service provider is that it should continue to be a Greenlandic or Danish company. As a starting point, the tax base for Greenland will remain the same regardless of which Danish-Greenland company might win the final contract. In this context, I would like to stress that, in general terms, the same will apply as in the past with regard to taxation, labour law and contractual relations. These factors have not been changed by the December 2013 Agreement. At the same time, I also have to say that it is unfortunately not new that the number of employees on Thulebasen varies. The tasks and scope of the base have developed continuously. It is therefore to be expected, regardless of the company responsible for the base operation, that the tax revenue from the base is not constant. In the 1960s, approx. 10,000 people at Thulebasen, while the latest inventory shows that today that figure has fallen to approx. 600 people. All other things being equal, such a development must be expected to be reflected in the needs that a service provider must meet, and therefore also in the need for service workers on the base. By its very nature, the government cannot decide that the number of employees of service providers and thus the amount of tax revenue is the same year by year. Finally, there is the question of how I will ensure the preservation of the current apprenticeship and jobs for Greenlanders and Danes. Here it is my clear expectation that new service providers, as hitherto, will use Greenlandic labour as much as possible. In practice, it has been the exception that American citizens have been used, and on the American side it has also been clearly stated that, in accordance with our common agreements, Greenlandic and Danish labour are wanted to be used as much as possible. It is communicated both to Greenland and Denmark, as is shown in the tender documentation. I also have the same expectations that service providers will continue to offer students internships on the base, and we have these expectations communicated clearly to the United States on several occasions and from both sides of the Atlantic. That is why I would like to conclude by stating that the 2013 review has not changed the conditions in the contractual framework relating to the use of Greenlandic and Danish labour force, and it is important to remember that the agreement complex between Greenland, Denmark and the United States and the accompanying follow-up mechanisms have now, for more than six decades, delivered the desired results when it comes to precisely the objective of using Danish-Greenland labour and suppliers as far as possible. Therefore, the government will continue to cooperate closely with the Home Rule Government of Greenland through dialogue with the United States in the appropriate forums to ensure that this will also be the case in the future, so that Greenland continues to benefit as much as possible from the cooperation on Thulebasen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121131604	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's list. There are no brief comments now according to the rules. Some people want them, but they're not getting them now. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121131632	Thank you, sir. President. In recent times both the Danish Parliament and the media have focused on Thulebasen in Greenland. The intruder is justified. An American shell company as a contract holder is directly opposed to the agreement between the Kingdom Community and the United States, which has been confirmed as recently as the end of 2013. The concern is also justified. The agreement, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs calls solid, only ensures the use of Greenlandic labour to the maximum extent possible. Inuit Ataqatigiit requires an impartial investigation of the government's role and progress since 2013. The study should focus on whether the case has been followed and lifted by the government at a sufficiently high political level. We've been demanding the same thing for Naala Suisut at home. Greenland is about to lose a three-digit million amount because the agreement reached was adjusted. If we convert the amount into Danish order of magnitude, it is the same as the Danish state was about to lose it now you must listen very carefully to • 240 billion. kr. a year. At the request of the United States, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs handed over the certification of suitable companies to the US authorities. It is obvious that one should have had Greenlandic interests in focus. The contract concerns activities on Greenlandic soil and territory with direct influence on Greenlandic society. The official reason for changing certification from being a Danish matter to being an American matter was that the Danish state did not want to give Danish companies better terms than companies from other countries. This appears to be illegal under EU law. That is the reason the government has subsequently focused on. However, as the Foreign Minister himself says, Greenland is not a member of the European Union and is therefore not subject to EU law and we question the validity of the argument. However, EU law has not been mentioned anywhere in the negotiations. The letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also states that the company must not be a subsidiary of a foreign company. It is therefore interesting that Exelis, who stands to win the contract, is precisely a shell company consisting of a law firm based in Hellerup. The Danish Government therefore amended the agreement concluded with the aim of supporting Greenlandic society in order to add to the United States and to add to the European Union. The United States had called for this, but the European Union itself had not raised the issue. We believe that the government's priorities are wrong and that it is deeply regrettable that the Danish Government does not unequivocally fight for the interests of the Kingdom community. We believe from the Inuit Ataqatigiits side that a focus on Greenland's economic challenges is necessarily linked to Pituffik/Thulebasen and the American military presence in Greenland. It is also about ensuring the future of the Greenlandic people's benefits from the military base in Pituffik and the benefits of all military activity in a country that has never even been at war with other peoples and states, but on whose territory military bases have been built and continue to lie, among other things. in order to ensure the security of other countries, and mostly NATO countries, at the risk of their own security. Now it is up to the United States to assess what is meant as far as possible. In other words, the question is how many Greenlandic jobs, apprenticeships and tax revenues can be accommodated. We are surprised that the possible conflict with EU law has not been used as a starting point for re-negotiating an agreement with Greenland. The whole miser exhibits the challenge of the Kingdom community: a community characterized by poor internal communication and lack of coordination and a Danish government, which has many other interests to care for than the Kingdom community. If this matter is not rectified, the Kingdom community has been knocked back on time before the introduction of self-government. The fine words of the self-government agreement to be equal partners and to promote the development of business together are therefore rife and sound hollow. This case is very serious both for Greenland's economy and for the relationship in the Kingdom Community. Our appeal to the parties of the Folketing is therefore: Let us make this right together and ensure continued good association within the Kingdom community. In cooperation with the parties [IA, V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and SIU] in the Danish Parliament and in agreement with the Government, Inuit Ataqatigiit has therefore worked on the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the Government for V 14).
ParlaMint-DK_20150121132153	That's what Mr. Johan Lund Olsen read out proposals for adoption on behalf of Siumut and IA are, of course, part of the further negotiations. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Troels Lund Poulsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121132220	First of all, on behalf of the Left, I would like to thank the authors, Johan Lund Olsen and Nick Nielsen, for this debate, which has now become an urgent question. U.S.A. That is why it is also crucial that we now come to the depths of this matter, a matter which, as the Foreign Minister has already explained in his reply, has already been discussed in a conciliation meeting at the beginning of December. For the Left, it is important that we give priority and also continue to develop the Kingdom Community. We are very concerned that the Community of Kingdoms that we have works in an equal way, and that is why we are of course also listening to some of the comments that have been made on the matter which have now been pending for several months. That is why I would like to express my great satisfaction today at the fact that before this debate there has also been an opportunity to have a very good and constructive dialogue with a large number of Members who have shown interest in the matter by Greenland. Having said that, I would like to say that this is a matter which concerns an invitation to tender involving a greater amount of billions and which is also linked to the agreements which have been historic between Denmark and the United States. Today, the Foreign Minister explained, as he has done in the past, that there has been a potential EU problem with regard to equal treatment and that this has then been the reason why the government has taken the initiatives that have been taken. This is one of the things that deserves a more thorough examination: a review that does not necessarily take place today, but of course we will also be interested in. After all, the Foreign Minister has previously shared parts of the Chamber Attorney's assessment with the Danish Parliament, but on the Left side we would like to say today that we are of course going to ask further questions on this aspect, because that is part of the matter we are discussing. The case has also turned out to be a sad case for Denmark, and not least for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in particular. Because what exactly has happened during this period? There have, of course, been changing foreign ministers and I acknowledge that, as there is a certain change in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the government that we are experiencing It may in some ways be sensible, but in other ways it may be unreasonable, because it makes it difficult to keep track of what is happening. And I also understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot necessarily do everything in detail, because some of this has happened before the Minister for Foreign Affairs became responsible for the area. But this should not mean that we will not be very clear about finding out exactly what has happened along the way, just as Johan Lund Olsen has previously explained here. That is why the Left can also support the proposal for adoption that has now been tabled. These are four quite excellent and very sensible points, and I would like to acknowledge that Johan Lund Olsen has been very active in preparing the proposal for adoption. We attach the utmost importance to this, and we very much appreciate the dialogue that has been going on and, above all, the fact that there can also be a broad majority in favour of the proposal for adoption today. What I would like to conclude by stating is that this is the way the Foreign Minister has explained today that the Foreign Minister believes that the Folketing has been informed throughout. The Left has serious doubts about this. It is the Danish Parliament which, through the public, has discussed the matter, and therefore there has also been continuous information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is crucial is the fact that the Left would like to state at the end of this debate in my speech that Denmark must, of course, ensure that the agreements concluded between Denmark and thus the Kingdom Community, and the United States, are respected. That goes without saying, and it is an essential condition for the cooperation that we have and must have in the future, whether it be with the United States or with other countries. With those words, of course, we will look forward to pursuing this matter, which we think is important. And I can already announce that we believe that the matter is so important that, of course, it also requires consultation as a follow-up to the debate we have today in which it would make sense for both the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister to take part.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121132719	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I have been given the understanding that the proposal for adoption presented to us by Johan Olsen is supported not only by IA and Siumut, but also by the Left, the Socialists, Radicals, SF, Unity, Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party just for information. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121132749	Thank you very much, President. You shouldn't be very long in Greenland or perhaps not very long in Denmark and go out and ask the population what they know about Thule Airbase before you will meet a lot of people who have had their work at Thule Airbase, which was built in 1951. In this way, I would like to make it clear that, on the social democratic side, we have a full, actually deep understanding that if things change around the service contract in and around Thule Airbase, it can have very great consequences for Greenlandic society. It is a small society whose economy is largely dependent on jobs, and Thule Airbase has been a very large workplace in Greenland since 1951. However, Thule Airbase is not only a workplace, it is also a place of training which has largely entered into the whole development of infrastructure and professionalism in Greenland and continues to do so. Thule Airbase is an important measure in terms of security for Greenland, for Denmark and for the whole Western world. And that is why since 1951 there has of course also been a close dialogue between the three countries: Greenland, the United States and Denmark and a common understanding of the importance and operation of Thule Airbase. There has been an agreement, and there has been a common Danish-Greenland understanding of how the agreement on the service contract should be and where those who should bid for the contract should come from. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained why a change has been made in relation to who is to certify those who bid for the contract. The lawyer has been aware of this and there are EU legal aspects to it. But what is and has been the common Danish and Greenlandic understanding is that even if it is an American part of the agreement to certify, it has been our common understanding that the basic principles that have been are also those that remain. And it is precisely as two rapporteurs have said here in the Chair that Greenland should benefit from Thule Airbase as far as possible financially, but also otherwise. So we also believe that this is what is and must be the framework for the current tender procedure and the future candidates. It is also our view that the interpretation of it as a Greenlandic-Danish company holds. As the Socialist rapporteur, I would like to say that it is a serious situation if that basis is not to prevail in the future. At any rate, it has not been a political intention to change the terms and, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said, there is currently a case before a U.S. Appeals Court because some Danish-Greenland companies think that there has been no contract fulfilment in relation to the tender criteria. And, of course, we are eagerly waiting for a decision. I am pleased that there has been a close dialogue between the government in Greenland and the government here in Denmark and that there remains. The Foreign Minister has also made that clear today, and I know that has been the case ever since the dispute and uncertainty arose. I am also aware that both the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister take this matter very seriously and have discussed it at the highest level with the Americans. And the Americans are well aware of how important Thule Airbase is to Greenland and thus also to the Kingdom Community. The text of the adoption has been read out, and it contains what we in the Socialist Group believe is essential to express today. That is the seriousness of the matter and, I hope, a positive momentum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133312	There are three brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133313	Thank you. I agree with the Socialist rapporteur that Thule is of enormous interest. Well, Thule Air Base is a name that really matters, of course especially in Greenland, but also in Denmark, because there have been so many often unfortunate circumstances around the base. That is why I would like to ask: when the government, when the case arose in 2013, knew that there was a new dramatic development going on around the situation at Thule Air Base, why did it not be opened up to the public? Why should it be almost a year and a half before the members of the Danish Parliament, but also, as I have understood, the members of the Landsting in Greenland were informed of this? Why was no public debate about this when it is so incredibly important?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133404	I cannot answer on behalf of the government, but I can answer on behalf of the Socialists. With regard to the dramatic development, we in the Socialists, now that we know the matter in its details, have not really thought about it in that way. And that is precisely what I am expressing, because we believe that what was the prerequisite for the service contract's tender in the past is still true.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133431	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133433	There are not many people in Greenland who will agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that the developments that have taken place around Thulebasen are not dramatic. I think that can be assured if you read the Greenlandic newspapers. It is well known that this is very, very dramatic. I know that the rapporteur does not speak on behalf of the government, but he can then speak on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. Should we not have discussed such a matter in public? Should it not have been put forward in 2013 and said: the European Union may have something here that means that we cannot continue as usual and do what we have done to everyone's satisfaction for 52 years? Is that just supposed to come sneaking like a thief at night? Would it not also have been in the interest of the Social Democratic Party to have a public debate on it both in Denmark and Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133515	I actually interpret the fact that both the Danish and the Greenlandic sides have not signed up for a political debate which is based on the fact that our expectation is that the agreement is the same, those are the same criteria, whether it is a Danish certification or an American certification.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133541	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133544	Thank you very much and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. My question is very brief and simple: does the rapporteur think that the agreement reached with the Americans, whether the certification has been complied with through the tendering round that has taken place and in the result that came when Exelis Services A/S was given the task, or has the agreement with the Americans not been respected?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133620	Sir. Finn Sørensen, I do not think I can answer that more clearly than the Foreign Minister has actually done. Because this is where we must have respect for the fact that there is, at the moment, a court looking at whether the contract has been complied with. In fact, this is why Danish politicians and ministers have been in close contact with the Danish applicants for the service contract, who have filed a case. In fact, that is why both the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister are talking to the Americans at the highest level about this matter. Well, here we may have to control our impatience a little bit, until we have heard a decision from the US court.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133703	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133705	Now it is the case that the Foreign Minister will not answer the question, which the rapporteur can be sure of by looking at the four or five questions I have asked, which all revolve around the rather central question: has the agreement between the United States and Denmark been complied with through this round of invitations to tender and in the result it has obtained or has it not been observed? That is not what American law of complaint has to decide. Surely we should not have an American right to complain about whether we believe that the agreements we make with the Americans are being respected; we must take a decision on that ourselves. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's personal opinion on this. The rapporteur must have an opinion on this: has the agreement with the Americans been respected through this round of invitations to tender, or is it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133753	There may be a great many elements to look at in terms of whether this corresponds to what has previously been interpreted in connection with previous invitations to tender. Some of what I think is central and some of what I look forward to being clarified is what the interpretation of whether a company is a Greenlandic-Danish company is like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133817	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133819	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur has now mentioned on several occasions that there has been a dialogue both by the Prime Minister and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs at a very high level with the Americans, and so far it has not been possible for me to know what that dialogue has been about, but apparently the Socialist rapporteur knows this. Can the rapporteur explain what dialogue with the Americans has been about when the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister have spoken to the Americans and at what level it has been?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133851	I cannot, and I think that should be addressed to the Minister either in writing or orally.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133857	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133859	But I do not understand that at all, because if you stand and entertain something and say that you know a lot, but when you are asked about the concrete, you are not able to answer it, then it makes absolutely no sense to use it as an argument. But is the rapporteur able to give the names of those who may have had the dialogue with the Americans? Is it both the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State? Is that the Secretary of Defense? Who has had this dialogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133922	My answer to the rapporteur of the Left is exactly the same. It's a government matter. What I have heard from the Foreign Minister, but as I have also heard from the Prime Minister, is that this has been discussed earlier, it is being discussed and it will be discussed with the Americans. But it is clear that one of the key people that the Americans have sent here to our small country is the American ambassador, so it is clear to me that the American ambassador has been involved in this discussion and discussion, as I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133956	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121133957	Thank you. I would like to stay on the same subject because it is quite important. After all, we heard from both the rapporteur and the Foreign Minister that it has been discussed at a very high political level. But when? So far, we have not yet received any information as to when it has been raised to a high political level, as they say. We have asked about this in the past, but we have not been able to get an answer yet. Perhaps we could get an exact and precise answer, perhaps also from the Secretary of State? When has there been this dialogue at a very high political level? That could be interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134045	At any rate, I cannot answer it as the Socialist Greenland rapporteur, but I can see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs notes it so that an answer can be found. It's gonna be nodded to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134053	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Stig Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134100	It sounded so handsome and convincing when the rapporteur said that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs had taken it up. Turns out they haven't. There's been an American ambassador. Can the rapporteur, who said with such certainty that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs had taken it up, tell us: did the ambassador meet the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134122	I will give the same answer to Mr. Per Stig Møller, it must be a matter for the government to answer. It is clear that, as rapporteur for the Socialist Group, I am informed of what has happened in broad terms, but the details which Mr. Per Stig Møller asks, I can't answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134141	Sir. Per Stig Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134143	Perhaps it would have been a good idea for the rapporteur not to say so, because the rapporteur obviously does not know whether the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have spoken to anyone at political level. The rapporteur obviously knows only that there has been an ambassador who has gone around in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So you might have to say that this is the kind of thing that better be deleted with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134202	Actually, I don't want to. In fact, I feel absolutely certain that the information I have received is correct. And then it must be the government, either the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister, who answers the details of where, when and with whom this case has been discussed. But it is clear that I accept it when it has been said that this has been discussed at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134221	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134228	Thank you. There was a boy at home in Himmerland, who was one of my comrades, and he was so afraid of his father that he basically started every day apologizing to him just to be on the safe side. I remembered my friend here as I immersed myself in Thule's documents, for how my fearful comrade reminds me of Denmark's Foreign Minister, who apologises in advance to the European Union just to be on the safe side. So, here we have a very good agreement with America that the service contracts at Thule Air Base are certified by the Kingdom Community. The agreement has worked perfectly for 52 years and to the satisfaction of all parties. The Americans seem to have been satisfied with their Danish-Greenland partners; employers and employees in the national community have been satisfied; Greenland's treasury has been extremely satisfied; the EU has not even raised an eyebrow, because this is happening in Greenland, and Greenland is not a member of the EU. In short, everyone was satisfied and has been happy for 52 years. Whether it was the Minister for Foreign Affairs who could no longer stand the idea that all parties were satisfied, or it was one of his zealous employees, I think one must have access to in order to be able to clarify. But it is a fact that the Minister brought in the DA, because it could be that if the DA looked long enough, he could find some hair in the soup. The attorney general could not do that, or that is to say, he made an honest attempt, because he is the government's lawyer, but he could not, with his best will, find anything but some misguided explanations that it might be reasonable to assume that it is not finally resolved and blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. However, the remarks, the vague remarks, which are, of course, the hallmark of the Chamber Attorney's note, were enough for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He immediately chose to interpret them: now we are dropping everything that we have had and that everyone has been happy about for 52 years. Without even having talked to the parties in the Danish Parliament about it, the Minister removed the Minister, I believe, in cooperation with Greenland, but we will probably find out about this from the old agreement with the United States and thus effectively lost all control with future civilian jobs in Thule. And note, I know that it was not something the Americans had demanded, it was not something the EU had asked for. I do not think they had been involved in that matter at all and it was not something the EU had wanted or demanded. In other words, the Foreign Minister apologized to the European Union just for being on the safe side, acting in our view contrary to the vital interests of the Kingdom community. I do not think that the joint motion for a resolution is good enough, and we in the Danish People's Party therefore intend to put forward our own proposal for adoption. That does not necessarily mean that we will vote against what is being tabled and will certainly be put to the vote first; we have not finally taken a position on that. However, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to make the following: Proposal for adoption: The Danish Parliament calls on the government to renegotiate the new agreement with the United States so that the certification of tenderers on the service contract at Thule Air Base will in future again take place in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the usual close and good cooperation with the Home Rule Government of Greenland in order to ensure that Greenland continues to ensure as far as possible the return of American presence on Thule. • V 15).
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134631	Thank you. The proposal read out by Mr. Søren Espersen is, of course, part of the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134642	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. After all, I share the rapporteur's criticism of the progress made and the way in which the Ministry dealt with the matter. I just have one question: why should it absolutely be in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as it did before? Why not follow the idea that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had at one time, namely that certification was left to Greenland's self-government? I guess it was pretty obvious, because it's in Greenland after all, it's going on. It is Greenland's society that must gain the economic benefits, the employment and educational benefits of the Americans' presence, and it was also obvious that it was left to self-government to carry out this certification of the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134731	Yes, sir. Finn Sørensen was right you were an opportunity. I just think that there are problems with that in law, because I am not sure that the Americans will be able to negotiate directly with the Home Rule Government of Greenland in this way. But, of course, the idea is right. There is only the apes dabei knows that there will still be problems for the many Danish tenderers in this case, whether or not it will be in Nuuk. In other words, it will still be possible to get away from the situation where there will be problems with Danish tenderers and Danish jobs, which one could imagine where they might choose other tenderers from Greenland. What is ideal in this is that it is an old agreement that has both ensured Denmark and Greenland the economic benefits of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134826	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134828	Thank you. Yes, there may be problems with many things and with any procedure you choose. However, I think it would be quite obvious that it was left to Greenland's self-government to carry out this certification. Well, it's in Greenland, it's going on, and I think they'd have an interest in it going on exactly as it's been doing all along. But there we have met with an argument from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I would like to hear from the rapporteur on where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has said it was actually proposed in the negotiations with the Americans, but the Americans did not want it. Is it reasonable to give up a claim on the basis that it was something the Americans did not like?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134915-2	Well, I do not really feel able to answer that, because I do not know the discussion that has been going on. I would just like to say that for me too, something is crucial. We know that there have been a great many Greenlandic companies and Greenlandic workers who have been employed at Thulebasen, but that there have also been a great many Danish companies and Danish workers in the years that have passed, and there I know that Mr. Finn Sørensen is as interested as I am in ensuring that Danish jobs are also safeguarded. I therefore believe that this is just as important as securing Greenlandic jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134946	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig as radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121134954	Thank you for the floor, President. The good relationship between Greenland and Denmark means a lot to me and to the Radical Left, as does the Kingdom Community. We need to take care of it and strengthen it. That is why the matter we are discussing here today is of the utmost importance to all of us, both for Greenlanders and Danes, for the Radicals and for me. Radical Left would like to maintain the good relationship between Denmark and Greenland, and we would like to support our fellow citizens to the north and strengthen their opportunities to have jobs, apprenticeships and internships as best we can. In fact, we all enjoy that. In the agreement with the United States as far back as the original defence agreement and in the additional agreements reached over the years, Denmark and Greenland have jointly sought to safeguard Greenland's interests in the best possible way. This is among other things. done by obliging the United States to offer the service contract for Thule Air Base to Danish and Greenlandic companies. It has previously been the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' task to certify the interested tenderers, and thus it has been the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that determined whether the tenderers could be considered as Danish or Greenlandic, which was one of the requirements. In 2013, the US took over the certification from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and this happened among other things. After obtaining an opinion from the Attorney General, who found that it would be contrary to the EU's legal prohibition on discrimination if Denmark, in the conduct of its external relations, gave priority to Danish companies, something that could end up in a claim for damages. There was therefore a need to adapt the procedures for the supply so that the certification was no longer with Denmark. On the other hand, the condition that the service provider should be a Danish-Greenland company was agreed between Greenland, Denmark and the United States to maintain. At the same time as the transfer of certification, the exchange of letters between Denmark and the United States again stressed that the American presence should benefit Greenland as much as possible. Since the service contract was to be renewed in 2014, the US provider chose Exelis Services A/S and this has led the losing Danish-Greenland companies to initiate a complaint. We do not know at this stage whether the choice of Exelis Services will be overruled by the US Complaints Office which is dealing with the complaints. However, the Radical Left has full confidence that the Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who have indicated that they have taken up the matter with the Americans at the highest possible level, are doing what is in their power within the framework of legislation and agreements to achieve the best result in favour of Danish and Greenlandic interests. We must await the outcome of the complaint for another month to see if the US Complaints Office considers that there has been a breach of US procurement rules and agreements between Greenland and Denmark and the United States. Radical Left is concerned that Greenland and the Greenlandic people get the most out of the American defence presence in Greenland as long as it is not contrary to EU law. We also support the fact that the Americans have to follow the procurement rules. It is a matter of course and the intention of the agreements between Denmark, Greenland and the United States. That is why we can also support the proposal for adoption that is before us, as a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has helped to shape. It says, as has also been mentioned earlier, that we will continue to ensure that the companies that can bid on the service contract are Greenlandic-Danish and that we will work to ensure that Greenland gets the most out of the military presence possible, including, for example, Greenland. tax revenue, apprenticeships, jobs. Finally, there can be no doubt in the future about the requirements and criteria that have been set. The Radical Left is therefore in favour of the proposal for adoption in its present form, as it would like to ensure that there will be no similar unfortunate scenarios in the future where the intention of the agreement can be called into question. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135400	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135404	Thank you to the rapporteur for the presentation. The rapporteur says that the report by the Attorney General concludes that it would be contrary to EU law to continue with the current form of certification and procedure. I would ask the rapporteur to read the report of the Attorney General. It doesn't say that. On the contrary, it says loud and clear that the question of whether EU law should apply to such an agreement has not been finally clarified and, if you go further into the statement, it can be seen that it clearly states that there is no practice by the European Court of Justice to clarify it here. So it is simply a wrong interpretation of what the Attorney General says. But my question to the rapporteur is: what is the rapporteur's opinion? Has the agreement between the United States and Denmark been complied with in connection with that invitation to tender or has it not been complied with?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135501	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen for the question. In fact, I find it very difficult to answer whether or not it is being observed because it is a matter of law. I think that the report of the Attorney General can be read in several ways, and I can only rely on the fact that the final conclusion of the Attorney General, at least as I read it, is that it would be contrary to EU law. To return to whether we have complied with the agreement here, I also think it is a really difficult question to answer, precisely for the same reason that it can be interpreted. So I can't give you a final answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135540	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135542	Thank you. The lawyer does not conclude, as the rapporteur says, but leave it at that. If it is the case that an agreement can be interpreted, surely it is not good enough. The question remains: what is the rapporteur's opinion? Is the agreement adhered to? Is it so sharp and precise that we can say clearly to the Americans: that is contrary to the agreements we have made? Or do the Americans have the opportunity to do as they have done, as the agreement is formulated? What is the rapporteur's own reading of the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135616	With my poor knowledge of law and company law, etc. It is very difficult to give a clear answer to that, I think, no matter how many times you ask the question. At first sight, it can be said that if it is a subsidiary, you might have an expectation that some rules have been infringed, but we will have to wait for the complaint in the United States. I am no better than the lawyers who are in the United States or here at home. I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135649	Sir. Søren Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135650	Joh, then, I think the rapporteur should have refrained from quoting the Attorney-General when she does it wrong. I'm gonna have to give that to Mr. Simpson. Finn Sørensen is right. It is not right in such an important matter, namely whether it is a violation of EU rules or whether it is not a violation of EU rules. There weaves the Attorney-General, just perhaps in order to disclaim responsibility for concluding. There is no conclusion here. There is something about it being able to conflict with it might as well be: it should not be able to conflict with it. That is then something that must be settled in a possible dispute with the European Union. But such battles never take Denmark, unlike our EU partners, as well as well. We are not taking the fight for something that may be questionable, and so we are helping to move in some direction in the European Union that is completely wrong. I would like to ask the rapporteur: should we not have taken, if not a fight, then a dispute? I'm not saying it should come to trial. Should we not have tried when there was an agreement that has satisfied all the parties for 52 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135759	I do not know whether it is wise with open eyes to go directly into a dispute which is possible to lose. I recognise that this can certainly be interpreted and that it can certainly be interpreted both ways. Whether it is wise to do so and like wait for a disaster in the end, I don't know. I don't know if you should have done that. At any rate, I think that we have tried to act in good time here and tried to be at the forefront of a possible legal action by potential companies around Europe that could have said that we cannot give Danish-Greenland companies priority in the treatment. Again, it's very difficult when you're not a lawyer yourself. You can have an opinion on it, but it's hard to know when you're not a lawyer. I do not know what the reasons were, other than that he, of course, also weighs up the agreements that lie there. They can be interpreted. I just mean myself, as I read it, that he ends up with, despite something going back and forth, having an overwhelming expectation that this will run counter to EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135912	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121135913	Well, I recognise that the rapporteur is not a lawyer. Neither am I. But that is why we can quote correctly. There is no need to go further and say, as the rapporteur does, that there is a conclusion. There isn't. The rapporteur says that we should not enter into a dispute with one's eyes open. Why shouldn't you? I mean, I haven't talked about going into a trial, but I've been talking about going into a dispute with the European Union. What does this mean when it comes to what the European Union wants to describe as an overseas territory? And what about the day that France has a similar case with one of its overseas territories and is successful? Will we not be annoyed with the fact that we have changed a state that has worked so well for 52 years? Going into a dispute is a discussion, and it is worthwhile doing so with open eyes as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140002	I'm sorry, of course, if mr. Søren Espersen feels that I am deliberately raising a conclusion in the Chamber Attorney's report which is not there. That's how we can read so differently, but I'll take it in. Well, we might be upset if there was a similar case with another country that also has an overseas territory or overseas country associated where it turns out that they will be able to win a trial. However, it is not entirely up to me to decide whether we should enter into disputes within the European Union with an open forehead, as I said. So that will be my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140047	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140052	Thank you. This case, i.e. the Thule Contract case, also has a very large amount of attention, and that is no wonder public attention in Greenland. It is quite natural that there is a great deal of political attention to it in Greenland. That is why, as in the Danish Parliament, there is an opportunity to ask the Greenlandic Government some questions, and the present Greenlandic opposition has done so many times so far. These are some questions called § 37-questions ^ here in the Folketing is the § 20-question where the government is obliged to give an answer. To one of the questions to the Greenland Government, a so-called 37-question, whether this case answers Naalakssuisut: Naalakersuisut ^ that is so that the Greenland Government does not believe that the United States has fully complied with the agreement to employ Danish-Greenland companies as far as possible. That's what Naala Suisut answers. But here the government says something else, actually the exact opposite. In any case, we have heard and received an answer to that. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140223	Thank you to Johan Lund Olsen for the question. Yeah, how do I feel about that? I have never had the opportunity to read the answers given by the Greenlandic Government. And with regard to the answers we have received at home, I think that we have tried to be as open as possible and to give as good answers as possible to the questions that have been asked. I myself have had no reason to question those answers. So I would say: yes, in the best way we have actually received an answer to what has been asked from the government here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140331	That's it? Then it's mr. Troels Lund Poulsen for a brief remark
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140335	Thank you. It is just a follow-up question on something that the rapporteur mentioned earlier, in which I had to understand it in the sense that the rapporteur said that we should not just enter into a dispute for the sake of the dispute. But how serious does the rapporteur think how serious does the Radical Left feel that this issue is potentially for the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140355	Of course, we think it is very serious. We are also sorry if the overall result, but we do not know yet, is that there will be even fewer Greenlandic jobs and apprenticeships and internships out of this. One thing is that the Americans can choose how large the workforce should be up there and it can vary, it can get fewer and fewer over the years, you don't know that, but on the other hand I don't feel convinced that no matter what this complaint is going to happen, if it doesn't, for example. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. After all, we have no guarantee that the company will choose only to hire Americans up there, let alone if they listen a little to the wording of the agreements and still feel that they have a duty. They will then have to employ as much as possible Greenlandic-Danish labour force, and only in those cases where the right labour force may not be found will they be able to employ some Americans. But we consider it to be very serious, both for the Greenlandic economy and for Greenlandic society, and we have no desire to harm or consciously • what should we say?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140527	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140529	Thank you for a very long answer. I did not mean to follow up, but now the rapporteur himself mentioned it. The rapporteur says that if Exelis wins, you have to believe that that and that. Anyway, there is no guarantee of that. Can the rapporteur not confirm that there is no guarantee whatsoever that if Exelis wins, what the rapporteur has said will stand up to believers? Now that the rapporteur himself has opened the debate on what might happen after a trial, what is the rapporteur's view of Exelis? Do they comply with the criteria given? For now the rapporteur himself has gone in and has dealt with the tenders that are being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140616	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I have just said that no guarantees can be given either, or, secondly, just as there is no guarantee of a presumption or expectation that no Greenlandic jobs or Danish jobs will come out of it. There are no guarantees, either way. So I am not arguing that there are any guarantees in any way. To the second part of the question, whether Exelis complies with Danish legislation and can be regarded as a Danish-Greenland company, I would say that I simply cannot decide that. Well, I don't have the authority to decide that. That is why complaints have been lodged about it, and that is why this complaint is currently under way. It is because it can be questioned whether it is a Danish-Greenland company.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140711	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Stig Møller. We are about to economise with the short comments if we are to keep to the timeframes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140717	I agree with that, especially as I am the last speaker. I just wanted to hear something about the American complaint in February because it is constantly being stated: does the radical rapporteur think that the Danish Government should bow to, respect, accept that the American complaint law in New York should decide on a joint Danish-Greenland-American cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140737	Oh, I'd like to leave that question to the Minister. Yes, I assume that the decision of the American complainant is something that, of course, to some extent we have to bow to. But I also assume that the American law of complaint, without knowing the system over there, also carries out its duties in a proper and sensible and serious way, so that in the final decision it will also emerge if there are discrepancies in relation to the agreements that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140821	Sir. Per Stig Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140824	Yeah, you'd better hope so. Whatever the case, does the rapporteur think that we can count on an American law of complaint in New York to protect Danish-Greenland interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140836	No, I don't think they specifically will, but I hope they will comply with the law and judge accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140844	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121140901	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity today to discuss this very important matter seriously. Thank you also for the initial meetings that have been and the good will of all sides to try to find a way in this difficult matter. As the Foreign Minister has mentioned, and as Johan Lund Olsen and several have mentioned, this matter is quite important. It is both for Greenland and for Denmark. It has been since the conclusion of the defence agreement between the Danish Empire and the US Government in 1951. Here Thule has played, and continues to play, a very important role in defence and security policy, too, because Thulebasen is a very important player in Greenland's society, which must, of course, help create jobs and training places and growth in society. That is why I am very pleased that IA has today raised this question, because it seems that there have been legitimate doubts as to whether the new agreement on the service contract for Thule Air Base really guarantees Greenlandic and Danish jobs and training places and returns to Greenlandic society. In this debate today there are two ways to go: one is to ask: what is the future of Thulebasen and the impact it has on Greenlandic society? The other way is to look at the process forward to the situation we have today. I would like to dwell a little on the Prime Minister, who said in his statement on the Kingdom Community last April that a modern kingdom community is an equal community, where cooperation is more important than ever; and that is why today the Kingdom Community is a community where virtually all important decisions about Faroese society and Greenlandic society are taken in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. So part of the decisions to be made are taken in Greenland. But it is also the case that the 2014 report on the Kingdom Community shows that Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland work together in a wide range of areas. We do so in the field of foreign affairs, raw materials and research, and we do so in the financial field. We are working together in the field of justice and in the task of defence, and we must maintain our cooperation. We must strengthen it and we must also develop it. As the Prime Minister said, Greenland needs to develop its industries and generate new income, and if Greenland's rich resources can be used even more in the future, it can have a major impact on the Greenlandic population. When I read the speech today, I have to say that there was not one word about Thulebasen. I understand, of course, that the government cannot guarantee a particular company the right to obtain the concession at Thule Air Base, but for SF it is absolutely essential that the agreement that is then concluded ensures Greenland and the Greenlandic community the maximum benefit of an agreement, but also ensures the special interests of the Kingdom Community, i.e. Denmark and Greenland together, in the Arctic region. That is why we support the proposal for adoption, which has precisely the important elements: Parliament calls on the government to ensure that the service contract at Pituffik remains Danish-Greenlandish, that efforts are made to ensure that Greenland's society provides training and apprenticeships, employment opportunities and tax revenues, and that work at Thule Air Base takes place on Greenland's pay and working conditions. It is precisely the economic basis that is so crucial for Greenland, and that is why it is also important for the Kingdom community. So I would very much like to stress that when Thule Air Base is today one of the most important and largest educational areas in Greenland, one can tell oneself what crucial importance it will have for Greenland if these opportunities lapse and they cannot offer it as an educational area. These are the objectives to which we must jointly hold the government, and in this context I would like to commend Johan Lund Olsen for a very serious and skilful political craftsmanship, namely that it has succeeded in getting so many of the parties of the Folketing to agree on a proposal for adoption. Then it is not just a proposal for adoption, so it is also an expression of agreement that we will work together to ensure that this can be for the good of Greenland and for the good of the Kingdom Community. So I would ask that we keep an eye on the great task, the problems we have here, and that is also what I hope the continued discussion will be based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141411	Sir. Finn Sørensen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141412	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I very much agree that we need to focus on getting out of this stupid situation in a good way, but in order to get there, we have to deal with what has happened in the past. And that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur felt that it was sensible to conclude the agreement reached in December 2013 which left certification to the Americans. Was that reasonable? And does the rapporteur believe that the agreement that was then reached in this regard has been complied with when one looks at what the result was, namely that it was such an American shell company that was given the task?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141450	At any rate, with the developments that have taken place, we can see that it has not been at all appropriate to be able to guarantee jobs, training places and tax revenues to Greenland's society that certification was handed over to the United States. Whether it was a demand from the European Union remains. We don't know. We're just reading it as a possible recommendation. I would also like to await the appeal. So I'm actually gonna go over what the Prime Minister said in Question Time on December 2nd, I think that's where Mr. Johan Lund Olsen just asked the PM about this case. Then the Prime Minister said: we must wait for the appeal to be concluded before we can proceed further. I'll be in touch before we can go any further. So, I understand that if this decision has the consequences that certification means that the tasks now depart from Greenlandic society, then the Prime Minister here says that we must go further. It's the way I read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141553	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141554	Thank you. The rapporteur used the words that it was not appropriate to leave certification to the Americans. I am as pleased with that as if the rapporteur had used the word I used, namely that it was not sensible. So that's where we agree. But then I have one more question: no, not another, because there was one that I did not get an answer to: does the rapporteur believe that the agreement reached in December 2013 has been complied with when you look at the progress that has been made? This is a little important, because we need to know that in order to find out how to move forward. Because if it has been respected, it was a bad deal, and if it has been broken, then we need a new one. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141635	I would simply like to await the appeal and its outcome. I am not a lawyer either. I am simply concerned that we continue to have training and jobs in Greenland and that we secure some tax revenue here. If the appeal is to the advantage of the United States, I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that the opportunities that Greenland society needs so much are still gone. If, hopefully, the appeal case shows that this has not gone down according to the agreements that ought to take care of Greenland's interests, then we are in a new situation. I guess we won't meet again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141715	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121141733	Thank you. The core of this case is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is making a huge mistake in December 2013 as they leave it to the Americans to decide which companies can participate in the supply of the service tasks at Thulebasen and even make an agreement that is obviously too easy to bypass. It is, of course, at the heart of the whole issue and it would be nice to hear the Foreign Minister recognise that it was a mistake. When we look at the future, we have to state that when we come to discuss it in the Folketing at all, it is because a number of Members of Parliament are asking some questions and because we are also a few who call for consultation. Otherwise, it would have been exciting to see if we had ever received the information. It is true, then, that the Minister is willing to send out documents and answers to questions, but I have to say that when I look at the content of the answers we have received, I really think that it is bound to the arrogant, unless there is some very large secret security policy justification for not answering some very precise questions that I have asked, for example. Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène 32 and 40, where I ask: have the agreements between the United States and the Kingdom Community in connection with the maintenance of Thulebasen been complied with or have they not been complied with? I have not received an answer to that. We have also received no answer as to whether the government believes that Exelis Services A/S meets the criteria described in the latest agreement with the Americans of December 2013. However, it is quite crucial that we get the Minister's opinion on whether the agreements have been complied with or not, because if the agreements have been complied with, they are obviously miserable agreements, and if they have not been complied with, we must demand a new agreement, and then we could discuss what should be in it. Then I do not understand that you can just refer to an American right of complaint. Surely it is not an American right to complain about the way in which invitations to tender are going to be made to decide whether the agreements we have concluded within the Kingdom Community and between us and the United States have been complied with. It is therefore a political question whether they have been respected, on which we ourselves must have an opinion. My own opinion is that if you look generally beyond the agreements concluded with the Americans, right back from the defence agreement and up to and including the December 2013 agreement, they are not sufficiently binding on the Americans. It has always been stressed that it is left to the Americans to assess to what extent the desire for Danish-Greenland companies and labour can be met. As far as the issue of EU law is concerned, we have been over it. There is simply no basis for taking the Chamber Attorney's statement and laying the basis for a decision that it would be contrary to EU law if we continued with the procedure to date. That is simply what should I say? By the way, I think that is contradictory. If it is contrary to EU law for Denmark to certify only Danish-Greenland companies in our overseas territories, then it is also contrary to EU law if we leave it to the Americans and even write in an agreement that we must take account of Danish-Greenland companies. So it doesn't add up at all. On the tax issue too, I think it is becoming increasingly unclear what the Minister thinks. Now we are suddenly told that one cannot really answer whether American citizens should pay taxes to Denmark. It belongs to Greenland. That is the interpretation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think it's very important how we get out of this case. That is why Enhedslisten is also in favour of working further on the proposal for adoption that has been put forward. I think we should just take note of the statement by the Naalaksuisut and Kim Kielsen that if there is no satisfactory solution to this, the Americans have to pay some rent... understood that if they don't want to, they can be like everyone else who doesn't pay their rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121142157	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Mette Bock as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121142210	Thank you for that and thank you for giving us the opportunity to carry out this urgent request. It is to me that we have an incredible debate of principle here today. This is true both in relation to the Kingdom Community, it is true in relation to the United States, and it is true in relation to Denmark's commitments to both Greenland and the European Union. What I find amazing is that this billion-dollar offer has not had any greater attention until now that the case has exploded. I am not in the Greenland Committee, but I know that the committee has not been informed by the Minister before the committee itself took the initiative. I also understand that the Greenland Financial Committee has not been informed before the day before the Greenlandic elections last November, which is why it might be interesting to hear what the Foreign Minister really means by what he said in his introduction, namely that there has been close cooperation throughout the Danish and Greenlandic Governments. I also think it might be interesting to see how in the world there can be such different assessments of the financial consequences of this agreement as the Minister for Foreign Affairs's estimates, and Torben M. Andersen's estimates, that it is probably 240 billion. kr. in minus to the Greenland Government. So there's something here that doesn't add up at all. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we support the proposal for adoption that we have tabled together with the other parties of the Folketing, apart from the Danish People's Party. We think it is essential to clarify not only whether there have been errors in the legal sense, but also whether there have been administrative and, above all, political errors along the way. The future of the Kingdom depends not only on law but also on mutual political trust. If there are shortcomings in the legal framework, then it must appear, and if there are political failures or administrative failures, it must also appear. But I also think, and not least, that it is interesting to clarify what Denmark's maneuvering authority really is, since you have, as it were, a spouse of both sides • Greenland and the Kingdom Community on the one hand, where Greenland is outside the European Union, and the European Union on the other. What are our maneuvering options? The spirit of the cooperation relations around Thulebasen has been that all agreements should benefit the Greenlandic people as long ago as 1951. We in the Liberal Alliance would like to know whether this spirit has now been suppressed and, if so, what its background is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121142511	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Per Stig Møller as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121142528	It is perfectly justified that Greenland MPs have notified this urgent request. It is of great importance to Greenland how the agreement with the United States on Thulebasen is being implemented. It has so far been fulfilled in the sense that it is Danish-Greenland labour which mainly serves Thulebasen. Greenland has thus received tax revenue, income from supplies and employment. The importance of this agreement is therefore very great and the symbolic importance of Thule is also very great. Therefore, when there are changes to the agreement on Thule, all alarm bells should ring at the political level, because it is as sensitive to the Greenlanders because of 1951 as Dybbøl is for Denmark. If Greenland loses the service and maintenance contract at Thulebasen, it is a problem for the Kingdom community, and then it is a problem for the Danish Foreign Minister. He is the one who is in charge of the negotiations with the United States, but according to the 2003 Itilleq agreement it must be done with the full involvement of Greenland. It is then a question of whether there has been full involvement, but they are in the process of finding out for themselves in Greenland. The problem is that in December 2013 the Danish government left certification of which companies could get the contract to the United States. In my opinion, it did not have to do so, since it had so far been agreed that the approval of the companies was in the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as has even been shown on the American Air Force website. This website faithfully continues the amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding of 27 January 2009 which established that the service was to be retrieved, quote, directly from Danish-Greenland sources. As the Ministry of Foreign Affairs transferred the certification to the United States in December 2013, the requirement that maintenance should be reserved for Danish-Greenland companies was maintained and could only go to others in cases where the former could not provide the service. And these are the cases where people simply do not have the labour force to demand. In addition, the agreement states that the winning company's head office must be located in Denmark or Greenland. The company that has won the bid in the United States does not have its head office within the Kingdom community. Since we have concluded these agreements with the United States, it is incumbent upon the Danish Government to make it clear, in cooperation with Greenland's self-government, that it is in the process of violating the agreements reached and must therefore cancel the agreement with the winning company because it does not have its head office in Denmark. And then they're gonna have to let the bidding round go over. After all, all the assumptions that were there up to 2009 cannot be lifted in 2013 because certification is put elsewhere. I understand that the Minister does not change the substance of the matter, but it is by doing so, and it is not the right of appeal in the United States to decide. It is a political issue, and that is why I would urge the Secretary of State, I understand, to meet John Kerry on Thursday to take it up with John Kerry, because it is political. And then I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs should salute me. I have also met John Kerry and point out that in my opinion it was a part of the upgrading of Thule radar that the conditions for servicing the base were maintained to date. And if the United States is running out of it, it also runs the risk of the Secretary of State greeting John Kerry and saying that Greenland will have to say no to a new upgrade of Thulebasen in the future. And if Greenland does so, the US Government should not count on the Danish Government to say yes, because we must and cannot once again decide on Greenland. In conclusion, it seems to me that we are witnessing a course that is not too pretty. Today I can read in the newspaper that the Minister for Foreign Affairs rejects the misdirection of the Danish Parliament in the Thule case... it is in the Børsen... and he has sent the following information to the Børsen.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the contrary, there has been full openness all the way, and we have transmitted all the documents so that everyone has been able to read with it. I do not think he has misled the Folketing either, but he is misleading the public here because there has not been full openness all the way. After all, this will only happen when the year after the 2013 agreement we call the Foreign Minister for consultation in December 2014. We have not been able to read all the way, as it says, because we did not get anything transmitted until we demanded that these things be transmitted in December 2014. Since it is nothing the Stock Exchange has misunderstood because the Minister for Foreign Affairs has sent this text to them himself, I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will confirm that we will only hear about it and be involved from December 2014. Now we have to look ahead, and in the future it must be the government that must make it clear to the US Government that it did not go, and then we must work on the basis of the sticks we have made in the proposal for adoption with our Greenlandic members who have done a huge job here, so that we ensure that the Danish-Greenland relationship and the Kingdom Community get through this in the way it should, namely that we do not lose anything in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143022	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Nick Nielsen from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143033	Qujanaq. What I said was that I myself, who am from Siumut, am looking forward to working well with you here in the last period of the parliamentary year. It is good to be able to begin my work here in the Danish Parliament by stressing how important I think it is that Denmark and Greenland work together. Now we are faced with a negotiating partner like the United States, and we must stand together. We must build our work on trust and community within the realm. In fact, this debate is about how we ensure that respect and cooperation between Greenland and Denmark and the United States continues in a way that meets our legitimate expectations. The service contract at Thule Air Base is an American contract; it is the United States that offers, selects and decides who they want to work for them, and they probably have a legitimate expectation that what they have to pay for is also what they need. At the same time, however, Greenland has an equally legitimate expectation of being compensated for making its country available to the United States military. Until now, we have been spared acts of war in connection with the presence of the United States, but certainly not the forced relocations, nuclear accidents or the contamination of our hunting grounds. The Thule Base has not been free for Greenland. This relationship has so far been handled by the United States by ensuring that Greenland always benefited from the base, among other things. via the service contracts, so far. Because what has gone very wrong here is that the American military appears to be, and to the great amazement of all the civil authorities involved in the process, are now breaking these agreements. They do so by setting up a shell company in Denmark in direct violation of the agreements between the kingdom and the US government and by ensuring a US company service contract. It's not okay. If the US military needs a completely different type of partner on the base than before, they must say so plainly. For then the only reasonable response is that we find a completely different way of compensating Greenland than before rather than spending time on service contracts that the US military does not want. I therefore believe that, regardless of what happens to the appeal in the United States in February, we must start a completely new negotiation process with the United States for future compensation to Greenland • compensation which is not tied up with service agreements or subcontracting systems but which is built up as a direct rental to Greenland based on the defence agreement with the United States which is the basis for it all. Then I'm back with the community with Denmark. Such a negotiation can only be carried out through close and trusting cooperation between the Danish and Greenlandic governments. I read the text presented in the proposal for adoption as a clear support for this view. Thank you, Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143444	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, so the rapporteur is allowed to remain standing. There were a few words or three in Greenlandic, and the translation came afterwards. It was just for the sake of enlightenment for those who listened to it, so that it is not the case that one speaks in Greenlandic and no one understands it. Of course, the rapporteur translated it afterwards. The first of a brief remark is Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143504	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Nick Nielsen with the virgin and welcome to the Folketing. I would like to ask what the Siumut government's responsibility is in this. As I have understood in changing foreign ministers, it is of course the case that in relation to all essential matters discussed between Denmark and third parties, in other words Greenland and America in this case, there are always Greenlandic government representatives. Is it not true that the Siumut Government has been involved in all the negotiations that have taken place and that it is therefore very much responsible for the fact that it has come as far as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143557	First of all, I would like to stress that the relationship between Greenland and Denmark is based on the self-government agreement, and in this it is made clear that what lies in relation to foreign affairs and security policy issues is Denmark's competence to decide on. However, we have a number of agreements with the Danish Government, such as the agreement, which ensures that when it comes to foreign affairs or security policy issues, we have to stand together and negotiate. And I am quite sure that in this case, the Greenland Government, Naalaksuisut, has had a close dialogue with the Danish Government. I am quite sure of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143654	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143654-2	Thank you. May I understand that the Siumut Government is thereby assuming responsibility for bringing us into the situation we have been brought in and that it has been informed throughout the period since this started, on the one hand, of what was being dealt with by Denmark in relation to EU law and, on the other hand, of representatives in the vital meetings with the Americans? Is that correct? So, does Siumut also assume responsibility for what has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143732	Thank you for the question. Once again, I would like to make it clear that the self-government agreement is a framework agreement and that, on foreign policy, security and defence policy issues, only Denmark is responsible. We are in the process of negotiating, and it is Denmark that has the ultimate responsibility here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143758	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143800	Thank you • Qujanaq! I was afraid that the rapporteur would continue the whole speech in Greenlandic, and I was thinking that somewhere would be fair. But that would make the negotiations more difficult until we had an interpreter called, so I am a little relieved that the rapporteur then struck into Danish. I would just like to say thank you for a strong speech and, in particular, to emphasise that what the rapporteur said was such that I understood it at least that, regardless of the outcome of the complaint, the rapporteur and his party believe that we should demand compensation or some kind of rent in relation to the presence of the Americans in Greenland. I just need to know if I've understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143844	That's right, sir. Finn Sørensen has understood. And it's been done, I don't know if I can say a number of studies. But the United States is paying a lot of money to have bases around the world, so why should it not be possible here, where Greenland is concerned, to get a compensation or rent, as we have so far called it? But it is, as I also pointed out in my speech, that Greenland and Denmark are united here and have a cooperation based on trust and understanding of each other. And we can find out that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143938	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121143940	Thank you for that clear answer. Then I would just like to say that we, the Enhedslisten, would like to support the rapporteur in this view, knowing that it will probably require a great deal of discussion and negotiation among ourselves in the Assembly Hall and in the government and between Greenland and the Danish Government. However, it is probably very good that we are reporting where we stand politically. So I am very grateful to the rapporteur for doing so in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144008	Qujanaq. That is also what we can do, and that is also what I look forward to doing with you in the last period I am here in the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144029	Then it's mr. Per Stig Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144033	Congratulations on the virginity. I look forward to your cooperation. I understood from the speech that the Greenland Government, in full agreement with the Itilleq Agreement, has been involved in and participated in the whole process. That also means that you cannot really come and demand compensation later, that is, when you have been involved in everything. In addition, we have also been able to accept that it is EU law that suddenly overturns the load, that is to say, if you have been involved in everything and approved it all. However, I thought it might be said that Greenland's relationship with Thule Air Base and the United States was a matter of external relations, and then EU law does not apply. What is Greenland's view of it when you have been involved in it all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144120	Of course I cannot speak on behalf of the Greenland Government; I think it is up to the Greenland Naala Suisut to say whether they have followed. But with the orientations I have received, I have got the understanding that they have had a close cooperation and a close relationship with the Danish government. But, of course, that is something I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144149	Sir. Per Stig Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144151	Well, that is something you have to find out in the forthcoming consultations, and that is probably something you will find out up in Greenland, that is, what has happened there; there will probably also be a lot of consultation in the future. But let me ask what Greenland thinks; let me ask what Mr. Nick Nielsen thinks. Mr. Nick Nielsen, that Greenland's relationship with Thule and the United States is a matter of external relations, because then it is the OCT rules of EU law that apply and then EU law does not apply. Therefore, it is quite crucial whether the Greenland MP believes that these are external relations. If it is not, then the Foreign Minister is right that EU law should apply. That is why it is rather important to hear how Greenland views this issue as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144235	Thank you. I think that the whole matter is quite complicated. It may sound a little strange to me that I say that for me it doesn't matter. The main thing for me in this situation is that Greenland should get something out of the Americans' presence in Greenland. That is actually what we must ensure together; it is not just Greenland. That's what I said. We've had forced relocations and nuclear accidents. In fact, many years ago, there was a nuclear accident that affected us in Greenland. So it is not only the relationship we must have and the relationship we must have with Thule, but also in general in our community it must benefit us; it must benefit us in Greenland, but also in Denmark. That is really what matters to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144343	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121144353	Thank you very much, President, and thank all the members of the Folketing who have taken part in the debate. I think this has been a good debate and I think there is reason to start by welcoming two things. One is that we can gather as widely a majority in the Folketing as we can, about what we do now and where we stand in this matter. Perhaps even the Danish People's Party, even if they had preferred another proposal for adoption, will agree with what we have. Why is this important? It is, of course, because precisely by avoiding domestic politics from going into it, we place the Kingdom community as strongly as possible in relation to both the United States and all sorts of other stakeholders outside the Kingdom community. It is when we stand together, as was rightly said by Nick Nielsen, that we are the strongest, and I would therefore like to thank you for not allowing ourselves to be tempted to have such a common domestic policy trickle in it, either here or in Greenland. That is the one thing that should be welcomed. The other thing that is to be welcomed is that Denmark and Greenland are united on this matter, that we have had such good cooperation with the Greenlandic Government all the way through, and that we have been able to make our decisions in agreement. Then there have been a number of questions along the way. I'll try to get around the most important ones. There have also been a few things that I have to say that I do not fully recognize the production of. In his speech, Johan Lund Olsen believed that there had been a lack of coordination between Greenland and Denmark. I have to say that is not my view. I do not think that is the view of the Greenland Government either. I also believe that Johan Lund Olsen came to say that we had introduced the term as far as possible in relation to the inclusion of Greenlandic and Danish labour force. It is actually a term that goes all the way back to the 1950s, so it is not something that has come into connection with the last round here. Then a question has also been suggested by several parties, among others. Enhedslisten's, namely whether Thulebaseen is of benefit and joy or not. I must just say, as a general political observation, that I am of the opinion that Thulebasen has been of incredibly great benefit to both Denmark and Greenland. It has benefited our common security. In addition to military purposes, it is also used as an essential element in a possible emergency in the North Greenlandic area, as well as the resupply of Station North and Navy operations in the high north are deeply dependent on Thule Base. So we benefit from it, and I think it might be worth mentioning that, because sometimes, when you hear the rhetoric, you can almost get the feeling that it would be better if the Americans were not at all at Thule Base. That is certainly not my view. Then many have been dwelling on the question of whether it was a mistake or a mistake that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs called guard in arms in relation to EU law back in December 2013. Sir. Søren Espersen had a fantastic picture with a little timid boy who apologized before anything had happened at all. I have the handicap I must hurry to say that I was not Minister for Foreign Affairs at the time, so for good reasons I do not have such first-hand knowledge of exactly the considerations that have been. But, of course, I have asked myself, and I have to say that my very clear impression is that there has been due diligence. The fact is that when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is contacted by companies that are considering bidding and asked whether this is contrary to EU law, it would therefore be very strange in my optics if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sat on their hands and said: we do not know, you must find out for yourself. Because the point is that if we introduce a practice which would then be contrary to EU law, we will have to pay for any liability. It is not the European Union, as Mr. Søren Espersen indicates, but the company that may have lost the offer, which is therefore bringing proceedings. This is much more likely than the European Union shouting at the gun guard. And if, in that situation, if I may say so, the community is not exposed to such a compensation system, I think it would be strange. That is why I think it really makes sense to ask the Attorney-General what their assessment is. There may also be slightly different opinions on how to read the Chamber Attorney's opinion, and I am, I must hurry to say, certainly not an EU lawyer. However, as I read the Chamber Attorney's ruling, which has also been sent over, and which has been referred to several times, it says and now I read out what exactly it says: On the basis of the above-mentioned practice, it is my view that it is the Chamber Attorney who speaks here that the requirement for the use of Danish companies and Danish labour to the extent that it is the conduct of Danish external relations, as a starting point is direct discrimination within the meaning of Articles 45 and 56 of the TFEU. This means that where there is some doubt, there is in relation to the Greenlandic defence of interests. There we are outside the European Union, and that is precisely why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is going as far as it can. Where, according to the Chamber Attorney's Office, it is obvious that it is direct discrimination, namely when it is Danish companies, I can see that I have to rush in, you go in and make sure that you do not get on the wrong side of the law, and then you do it in return on behalf of Greenland in the agreement you make with the Americans. So let me hurry up with two other points. I'll be quick, President. One is that Troels Lund Poulsen asks when we have taken it up with the Americans on a high level. We did so immediately after the publication of the decision, which, as you know, took us a little by surprise. I haven't been inside, I have to say that directly in the case before. This happened immediately after the decision, and it was both the Head of Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Director of Foreign Affairs and our Ambassador to Washington who had the opportunity to raise it with their respective partners, but not at political level. That is not what was said either by me or by the Socialist rapporteur. Then there was a question at the end that was about... yes, I'd better hold here, and then maybe I'll have the opportunity to come up with it when I'm asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145021	Thank you. Right now we have a little problem, because we have to finish at 8:00. 15.00 p.m. with the question. Right now there are six who will ask questions, plus that Mr. Johan Lund Olsen needs to get up too. So if we are to keep to time, we simply cannot reach it unless we cut down so that the six here get 1⁄2 minutes for one question and then no more. Maybe sir can. Johan Lund Olsen spares his question, as he has to be on the platform here afterwards, but that depends on how important it is to Mr. Johan Lund Olsen to ask his question. But the first one is sir. Søren Espersen, and it's 1⁄2 minute sharp, preferably less, if possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145113	Just ultracard: Don't the Foreign Minister regret that when this began I know that the Minister wasn't Minister for Foreign Affairs at the time that he made it the subject of a public debate, so something so important shouldn't come as such a kind of thief at night both to Greenland's Landsting and to the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145136	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145137	Thank you for that question, because that was exactly the point I needed before. I was not in the chair at the time, but the assessment was that this was only, if I may say so, a practical measure, a change in order to ensure that Denmark would not be an active part of the procurement process in future. But the basic principle which has been reaffirmed time and time again under the previous government, namely that as far as possible it should be Greenlandic and Danish labour which is being used on Thulebasen, was indeed maintained and confirmed. In other words, there was no reason to inform the Folketing because it was not fundamentally changed. That was, I understand, the same assessment of the adjustment made with the 2008 note exchange. In other words, as long as the content was the same, it has not been considered that the fact that there were some practical changes in the way in which it was handled necessarily had the interests of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145227	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145228	Thank you. It is true that the Enhedslisten does not believe that the Americans should have a base there at all and that it is certainly something to ask the Greenlandic people. But my question is: does the Foreign Minister recognise that it was a mistake to leave certification to the Americans, as happened in December 2013? And does the Foreign Minister believe that the agreements that have been concluded have been complied with in the context of the tendering round that has taken place?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145256	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145257	As I have explained in great detail, I believe that it was justified to make sure that there was no breach of EU law or a significant risk of losing a case in the event of a losing company taking legal action. It would, of course, be a liability which the Kingdom and thus the Danish state would incur. So I actually think it was sensible to exercise due care and avoid it. Whether or not the agreement that has been reached has been implemented is something that I will wait to enter into until we have a decision from the United States, for the simple reason that I do not want to interfere while the matter is pending.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145333	Then it's Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145337	Thank you. Will the Minister state clearly here what laws and regulations apply in Greenland? My question is that Thulebasen is not a sort of Vatican State where you have your own rules. So is Greenland's pay and working conditions applicable at Thulebasen, no matter what the outcome will be after 20 February?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145359	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145401	Thank you for the question, because that was another thing I did not have time to discuss. These are the same collective agreements and working conditions that apply as before 2013, and this is an area that the Greenlanders control and control themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145415	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145418	I just have one small question, but it is an important question, I think. My colleague from Siumut, Nick Nielsen, was among others. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). The same was true of our new president of Naalaksuisut, Greenland's new head of government, Kim Kielsen, who had just recently met and held a joint press conference. That is when the question was raised by the President-in-Office of the Council. My question is: is the demand for this compensation, i.e. rent, coordinated with the Danish Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145501	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145502	So, my recommendation will be that we take one step at a time and now await the complaint that is going on in the United States and then come back and look at how we approach it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145514	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145516	Thank you. Does this also mean that the Foreign Minister will not take any political action until the appeal is closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145527	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145528	At first glance, it will probably be my assessment and now that we have had it up to the very highest level in the civil service, I have no doubt that the Americans are taking this matter seriously. I have had the opportunity to discuss it briefly with the American ambassador in this country too, and I really have no reason to believe that the Americans want anything but that Thulebasen should come Greenlandic labour force and Danish labour force and the Greenlandic community to benefit as much as possible. Until it had to be disproved, I might think it was a little premature to make contact at the very highest level. I'm also not sure that it would be physically possible for me to do so. But I also think that Denmark will have more pleasure in waiting for the case to proceed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145608	Sir. Per Stig Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145610	I do not entirely agree with that, but it is a different story and that is not what my question is about. It's about EU law. I would therefore ask the Foreign Minister to confirm that when we negotiate with the United States on behalf of Greenland and the Kingdom, we are negotiating with the United States, and that is for Greenland externally. The United States is not in Europe and Greenland is not a member of the European Union. That is to say, as the Attorney General begins by saying, there is reason to say that it is a question of EU law not being finally clarified. Therefore, we cannot just place decisive emphasis on the Chamber Attorney's assessment when the Attorney-General himself says that it has not been finally clarified. Does the Foreign Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145653	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145654	So, I have to say that I believe that the Legal Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when this decision was taken here, found, according to the letter from the Attorney General, that direct discrimination is the principle of discrimination if there is discrimination in the application of Danish companies and Danish workers. But if it's just about Greenlandic companies, if that's what's in Per Stig Møller's question, it's not. That's why you choose the model you do. Denmark cannot carry out the certification of the assessment at that time without coming into conflict with the rules, but safeguarding Greenlandic interests can be done if I have understood the legal distinction correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145742	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Then it's mr. Johan Lund Olsen to finish. It's just a few minutes. Then we'll make it all anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145803	Yeah, we'll make it all anyway. Thank you, President. I am not going to say much more here in the concluding remarks than that I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the answers and opinions that have been given here, but I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, even though we have not covered everything. What I have noted is that there are now two proposals for adoption. We have to vote on them tomorrow. What I also mainly noticed was that the Danish People's Party Søren Espersen said that he was not, what is it now [speaking Greenlandic] and now I said something in Greenlandic terms completely against our more broad proposal for adoption. I would like to recommend that the Danish People's Party also consider voting with us tomorrow, because that is quite important. Then we will have the opportunity to continue to ensure that the service contractor at Pituffik remains Danish-Greenlandic, that it is Danish-Greenlandic jobs and that it will also be of the greatest benefit to the Greenlandic economy. Those were my concluding remarks. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145921	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 22 January 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121145952	The first question has been put to the Prime Minister, and that is what Mr. Søren Espersen. And it's just the time we get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150011	Thank you. I shall start by reading the question: will the Prime Minister, since the government's counter-reports on Danish recognition of Palestine have understandably caused a great deal of confusion, clearly inform the Folketing of what exactly is the government's policy in this area? And then there is a statement of reasons which has also been sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150028	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150031	Thank you for the question. As stated in the government base, the government, in close cooperation with the other EU countries, will work for the recognition and establishment of an independent and viable Palestinian state. The government would prefer that Danish recognition can take place as a result of a two-state solution, and we still see a negotiated peace as necessary for a viable Palestinian state. Recognition is therefore not an end in itself. What is crucial is that Danish recognition has the maximum positive impact on reaching a negotiated two-state solution between the parties and thus on the establishment of a viable Palestinian state. I would like to make it very clear that I do not believe that the time has come for the recognition of Palestine. Danish recognition now will not contribute positively to a peace process between the Israelis and the Palestinians. But, of course, we must constantly take stock of the development of the peace negotiations between Israel and Palestine, and we must coordinate with the other EU countries how best we can try to push the parties closer to a peace agreement. The time has not come to close doors or exclude options. There is broad agreement within the European Union that developments are not currently moving in the right direction; there is no progress in the peace process. As Denmark, therefore, the vast majority of EU countries make a great deal of emphasis on the fact that the time is not to rule out possible steps or to lock themselves in fixed positions. Specifically, this has meant that in recent months a large majority of EU countries have indicated that sometime in the future we can do this very well with the Danish line that I started by telling you about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150245	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150247	Thank you. I do not think that answer necessarily addresses what I am asking. I understand that there are a number of reasons that have also been written in the government base, but the reason why I have asked the question is that there is in my ears a significant difference in the way the Foreign Minister has spoken and the way the Prime Minister has spoken. It was so that during the parliamentary Question Time on 04.11. We want a two-state solution and we want a negotiated solution to the conflict and, as soon as there is a two-state solution, as soon as there is a two-state solution, we are, of course, ready to recognise Palestine. The Prime Minister has also said this in other contexts, and I fully agree with her on that position. But then the Secretary of State comes and says something that in my ears is contrary to what the Prime Minister says. I have mentioned one of the statements made in the Parliamentary Assembly during the debate on B 21, which we had recently, but also in several other public contexts, such as: in Politiken on 11.12.2014, the Foreign Minister has an opposite view of government policy and says the opposite of what the Prime Minister says, namely, stating, quote: A peace settlement is no longer necessary for Danish recognition of a Palestinian state. It was looked up very big in the newspapers, like that now there was a new attitude on the way, now there was a new attitude from Denmark in relation to the recognition of Palestine. And that's what caused me confusion. So a peace settlement is no longer necessary where the Prime Minister says: as soon as there is a negotiated two-state solution. That is the difference that I would ask the Prime Minister to make crystal clear to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150440	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150441	As Mr. Søren Espersen knows, we should not believe everything in the newspapers and the way things are angled. I really think that there is a very clear and straight line between what the government has written in the government base and the way in which we are putting our policy into practice at this stage. This means that we must constantly take stock of the development of the peace negotiations between Israel and Palestine; we must coordinate with other countries; it also says in the government framework how best to push the parties near a peace agreement and, as I also say, recognition for me and the government is not an end in itself. What is crucial is, of course, that this recognition will have the maximum positive impact on achieving a negotiated two-state solution between the parties and thus on the establishment of a viable Palestinian state. That is why, although recognition is certainly not something we should now, and we are not in that situation at the present time, there may well be a future scenario in which, in cooperation with a critical mass, that is, a large number of other EU countries, we can find ourselves in a situation where it would be sensible in a very broadly coordinated effort among EU countries to recognise a Palestinian state as part of a process leading to an early two-state solution. I think it is important not to introduce a causality which must be carried out precisely in this way, rather than closing doors in this way, but rather to keep some doors open, but I would also like to emphasise today, as I believe the Foreign Minister has done on several occasions, that this is not where we are today. However, the time has not come to close doors; on the contrary, the time has come to be very clear that we are cooperating with other EU countries and that we cannot rule out the possibility of a future situation in which, in a very broadly coordinated effort among EU countries, a Palestinian state can be recognised as part of a process leading to an early two-state solution. That is a correct approach, it is a flexible approach and it is something that can be done in the future; that is not where we are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150643	For the sake of good order, I'm going to ask the Prime Minister to try to keep to his speaking time. It's 1⁄2 minute, and I think this was two minutes, so I'm gonna have to be a little long with mr. Søren Espersen to the next question. Maybe there'll be another five seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150655	Thank you so much. They're gone now. I have to say, no, I don't believe everything in the papers. I've been a reporter myself in the old days, and I know how this works. So I certainly don't. But the Foreign Minister did not reject those statements. He insists on them, and in the debate on B 21, where the Prime Minister was not present in the Chamber, it was launched as the great news. We also noted that several of the government's own, for example. Mrs Zenia Stampe, standing on the platform and saying: I do not know if it has been noticed it is a quote • but this is the first time today that a government in Denmark is reporting out that it is ready to recognise Palestine before a real two-state solution has been negotiated. That was also the message from the Foreign Minister. I think it seems that the Prime Minister has now moved. Compared to what she said, it is the Prime Minister who has moved. I think it is regrettable if we are now talking about: it may well be that..., if it is. I believe that it is as important as Germany and other countries too, namely that real peace in the Middle East will only come between Israelis and Arabs once the Israelis and Palestinians together have found a peaceful solution. But I feel that this is another version that the Prime Minister is now presenting, in which she said in the Danish Parliament's Question Time: As soon as there is a two-state solution, we are... Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150822	That was the end of the President's goodwill. Now we are trying to keep to the time of 1⁄2 minutes, and that applies to both sides. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150830	Yes, sir. I think that Mr. Søren Espersen is trying to find hair in the soup, because the attitude of the government is quite clear, and you can really just read the government base and look at what we have said. We are trying to follow the terrain and the terrain at the moment is that there is no reason to close doors. At the same time, I say quite clearly, as I have said all along: the time is not for recognition now. Recognition is not an end in itself, but we must constantly take stock of developments, and if, in a future scenario, we come into a situation where there is a new peace process, a new development, a promise of an early two-state solution, then it may well be that we are in a new situation at some point. Therefore, I do not think that the time is right to close doors to future scenarios. What is important is: what is the government doing here and now? The government does not support the recognition of Palestine. We do not want to recognise just to recognise, but, on the contrary, it must be part of a process in which a sustainable Palestinian state can be established.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150937	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121150939	But why, on the part of the Foreign Minister, should it be declared to the public that there had now been a real break-up? I asked for a list from the Foreign Minister, which I have also received, of the countries waiting for a negotiated solution, and suddenly Denmark had moved from one group to another. If it was nothing, and if it is the government's line, as the Prime Minister says, and I believe that when she says so, why should it suddenly be sounded out throughout the press and also in connection with B 21, if there was nothing? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151012	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151013	I have to say to Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen, that I am not familiar with such a proclamation by the Foreign Minister. I am fully aware of what the Foreign Minister has said to the question of whether we should recognise Palestine now, and it is very clear: no, we should not. The time is not at all to recognise Palestine, and it is not an end in itself. We take stock of the situation that may be on earth, and we cannot rule out the possibility that, in a future scenario, there will be a situation in which, together with other EU countries with which we are discussing this issue very much, we will find it useful to create a viable Palestinian state that it can be part of a two-state solution soon. I don't want to rule out scenarios, but I think that's the most important thing for Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen and the Danish Parliament are where we stand here and now. And we are not in a situation where we want to recognise Palestine now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151109	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151113	For the sake of fairness, I have to say that Question 2 and Question 4 are deleted at the request of the author. This is Question 3 to the Minister for Finance to whom we are going, and we shall see if the Minister for Finance is better at managing the time. At any rate, it's something with numbers, and I know that the Minister of Finance is checking out hopefully. I think he has. So we are going to start Question 3, and that is the new year, so the goodwill has been there by the President, but it is not going to continue. It's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left, who has put the question to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151157	What has changed since the Finance Act was adopted shortly before Christmas 2014, when the government did not consider there was a need for further growth initiatives, and until 1 January 2015, when the Prime Minister announced in his New Year speech a growth package?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151212	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151213	Thank you very much and also thank you for the very kind introduction by the President. The figures are the kind of thing I want to take home with me and enjoy tonight, i.e. that it is also the opinion of the acting chairman of the Danish Parliament that the figures in the Ministry of Finance are in order. I would also like to start by saying that I am delighted that our economy in Denmark is progressing. It is, of course, the case that we have had growth over the last five quarters, and it is a growth that is expected to increase in the coming years. I think we would all like it to go even faster and that the way out of the crisis was even more equal than it has been. But the overall picture is of course a Denmark in economic progress. Fortunately, this is an increase that is particularly evident in the labour market, where private employment has increased by 30,000 people since mid-2013 and where there is a prospect of increasing employment in the future. Following the backlash in 2008 and 2009, fiscal policy has been designed both to ensure sound public finances and to support growth and employment as much as possible within the given fiscal framework. And in 2015, when the Danish economy is still some way from being at full speed, it is fully exploited for the benefit of growth. So growth policy is being pursued. At the same time, we have implemented a number of reforms that have created a good foundation for a sustainable recovery in the Danish economy. This applies, among other things, to: reforms that have increased labour supply and strengthened the framework conditions and competitiveness of enterprises. In February 2013, the government then presented a growth plan for Denmark as a global plan towards 2020 with a new focus on productivity and private job creation, and this is a growth plan to increase growth towards 2020 by a total of 40 billion. kr. Half of this growth objective must be achieved through reforms of the conditions of private companies, which are designed to strengthen competitiveness and contribute to productivity growth. The second half includes reforms that increase the level of education and employment. After all, the government has continuously delivered on the objectives of the reforms that we have already implemented. Most recently, with the 2014 growth package, we have already achieved the goal of achieving just over three quarters of the overall target, that is, the 2020 target. However, it is also the case that the government is, of course, constantly working on that agenda, and future government growth initiatives must of course be seen in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151441	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151443	Thank you for reviewing the government's history. That was just not really an answer to what I asked, because I asked what it is that has changed in the government's perception of the Danish economy when we saw the government making a finance agreement with the SF and the Enhedslisten and there on the 31 pages of the finance agreement, nothing is helping to create private jobs. We had a financial bill debate here in Parliament on 17 and 18 December, where the announcement from the government was that growth initiatives had been taken in early summer and summer 2014 and that therefore there was no need for any further. There was a Finance Act which, in the view of the government, had done enough for growth and there was no need for any further. This was one of the reasons why the government had chosen to make finance law with SF and Enhedslisten instead of alternatively with the Left, where the focus would have been on creating more private jobs. That is why I am a little sorry that the Minister of Finance is completely avoiding the centre of my question, namely what has changed. Over 14 days the government has stood in Parliament and said that the Finance Act that the country needs has been made, no more and no less, to announce a growth package in the Prime Minister's New Year speech. So what you're thinking is: when the Minister for Finance talks so much about, as the Minister for Finance does, is it because we can't really expect much of that growth package that it's just like saying that something is coming, maybe, and then we'll see? Or is it an indication that the downward adjustment made by the government in December 2014 compared to what growth is this year, when the government had to downgrade from 2%. to 1.4 per cent, didn't matter when you made the Finance Act, but that now you've come to better thoughts? If the latter is the case, one must always rejoice over the reverse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151648	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151649	One gets the impression when one listens to the follow-up question that what lies behind this whole discussion by the Left is quite a deep frustration that things are actually moving forward in the Danish economy, which is strange. For that is quite good for a lot of things in our country, including those people who now find a job after being unemployed when we had a left-wing government. The financial agreement that we concluded was certainly helping to push growth in Denmark, as I also said in my reply. And the growth policy we are pursuing, moreover, is just in line with the plans we have put forward in the 2020 plan, which has been put forward openly and which everyone knows. We know the objectives and we know that the government is constantly working to achieve the objectives. That is simply what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151734	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151736	I believe that what is crucial, and what the Minister of Finance can be quite confident about, is that our ambition in terms of growth in Denmark is higher than that represented by the government. We do not believe that growth of 1.4%. Enough. That is why we had a financial bill that could create more growth and more jobs than what the government ended up agreeing with SF and Enhedslisten. So any progress in the Danish economy we all welcome. Anyone who gets to work is a step forward, so let us get more of that. Therefore, it is only my regret that the Minister for Finance will not answer why the Minister for Finance will now be involved in taking new steps when, in December, the Minister for Finance in this Chamber said that the Finance Act that was agreed was what was needed in 2015 to ensure sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151825	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151826	Yes, but the fact that the policy of the Left should create more jobs than the policy of the government is not such a widespread idea anywhere in society than in the Left. In other words, the perception in most other parts of society is that there has been something better in the way of economic policy and the creation of private jobs under this government than when we had a left-wing government under the leadership of Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, where private jobs were lost, even on a massive scale. When we put forward new initiatives soon on top of the many initiatives that have already been taken and agreed and implemented, it is, of course, because we are running on schedule in this government when it comes to growth. We have presented a plan, a 2020 plan, for where to go, and we are implementing it step by step, quite in contrast to the way we worked on those things when we had a left-wing government in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151915	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121151916	Well, what worries me is when the Minister of Finance says in his reply to me that the framework will be fully exploited in 2015, and that new things will then come. So I am just curious to hear: does this mean that the new initiatives that the government is bringing in cannot work in 2015 or that it is not something that requires the economy, that it is other things? Because if the Minister of Finance believes that the current Finance Act, which has been adopted for 2015, is fully within the framework, what is left to make a growth package for? So is it just something that has to work in 2016, or is it something that cannot be initiated without other funding? Then it can be said that if the Minister of Finance thinks that growth is running according to plan, then it is strange that the government has had to downgrade the growth estimate for the Danish economy eight or nine times, I think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152011	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152011-2	I understand it is difficult for the rapporteur of the Left to understand that this government has a completely different, more structured and more planned way of dealing with economic policy and growth than when we had a left-wing government in Denmark. And that is how it is compared to what we have often debated in the past, the questioner and I, that when you ask Danish economists, it is clearly also their view that things are better under control now than there were then. This also applies to growth and jobs. So, it is built into our long-term plans that we systematically, step by step, increase Danish economy's ability to grow in our private business. And what we are now seeing is that it is also going to happen in concrete terms that more jobs will be created, as opposed to before the change of government, when private jobs were lost.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152056	Thank you. That was the end of the question. Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. We are therefore going to Question 5, which is addressed to the Minister for Finance by Mr Gundelach. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152109	Sir. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152115	The question is this: does the Minister agree with the municipality of Aalborg that citizens who are exempt from digital mail should also be automatically exempted from using the mandatory digital self-service solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152127	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152128	Thank you for the question. The digital self-service legislation takes into account the fact that some citizens cannot use digital self-service. In these cases, therefore, each authority must offer help to citizens who have difficulty using digital communication and an alternative communication channel must be offered, for example. a paper form for those who cannot use the digital solutions at all. A citizen can generally be exempted from digital mail because it is the case with digital mail that the citizen can unsolicitedly receive letters from the public, and therefore it is important to ensure that citizens are able to use digital mail. This is why an exemption from digital mail applies to all digital postal consignments over a longer period or completely permanent. When it comes to digital self-service, it is the citizen who has to contact the public, and if the citizen cannot use digital self-service, the citizen must therefore turn to the public service of the municipality. Here we need to assess whether the citizen should be exempted from the requirement of digital self-service, taking into account the ability and situation of the citizen on a case-by-case basis. It is not the case that the citizen has to fill out an application to be exempted; the citizen who cannot use the digital self-service solution should therefore turn to e.g. the municipal citizens' service to obtain a paper form, as was typically the case before the introduction of digital self-service when applying for something in your municipality. The concrete assessment of the citizen's ability to use digital self-service from time to time ensures a great deal of flexibility. This means that a citizen, such as the United Kingdom, who is a citizen of the European Union, is entitled to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. is not able to use a complex self-service solution, not so per. automaticly can be excluded from applying a more simple solution in another area. This avoids excluding people from using digital communication with the public to facilitate their everyday lives where they can, and that is why the rules are as they are. Having said that, I would also like to emphasise that the use of digital self-service, digital mail is constantly being followed up and, as the situation is now, I do not believe that citizens who are exempt from digital mail should also be automatically exempted from using the mandatory digital self-service solutions. However, should problems arise in the handling of exemptions and exemptions, we must of course consider whether the rules are linked in the most appropriate way. Therefore, I would like to ask the Danish Digitalisation Authority to have a dialogue with the municipalities and with KL so that we can have a comprehensive overview of whether there is a general problem with the rules as they have been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152356	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152358	After all, we should never be sad when the Minister of Finance is setting up a dialogue with them which, if I may say so, has a first-hand knowledge of the challenges that exist in this area. But I would now like to ask the Minister for Finance whether he himself thinks it is likely that if you are not able to receive digital mail, you will generally be able to use digital self-service solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152426	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152428	Indeed, I think that the rules adopted by a very, very broad majority here in the Danish Parliament have the logic that I described in my answer, namely that there is the gentleness of the rules that, if you are to work with digital mail, you can receive things in your mailbox that you have not asked for, but which can be of great importance to your life. That is why, of course, there must be extensive access to exceptions. But digital self-service can be infinitely simple in some cases, and this is because you yourself seek out the municipality and thus know that there is a case going on here. As I also described, in those situations where one needs to be exempted in those areas, there is very easy access to it. This is not something that should be applied for per year. form or other; it works in practice as it did before we got digital self-service.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152513	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152514	But there is still one question to be asked. The municipality has examined an application from a citizen that he or she is unable to handle digital mail, and then my simple question remains to the Minister of Finance: can the Minister of Finance imagine that in quite a number of cases these citizens will subsequently prove to be able to use digital self-service? And it is true that with digital self-service you have to take the initiative yourself, but it will often be to get some things that you are obviously entitled to. And what is the reason why you have to go through this unnecessary bureaucracy with the municipality having to take a position again, and not just have to take a position once, but each and every time, how exactly this citizen is dealing with the specific digital self-service? As I understand it, the general view in the municipalities is that it will always lead to the decision that it is hardly possible when you cannot receive digital mail.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152614	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152616	I mean, simple questions are simple answers. And it is already included in my initial answer to the question that, when it comes to digital self-service, there is quite a difference between how complex self-service solutions we are talking about. Something is very, very simple, other is quite complex. And that is precisely why the legislation here is designed to give citizens relatively easy access to exceptions and to allow them to differentiate according to what they are talking about. That is why it is designed as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152645	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152647	I am in favour of the fact that there can certainly be examples of people who are able to receive digital mail having difficulty dealing with the very often complex digital self-service solutions offered by the public sector. I'm pretty much in on that. But the question is in the other direction. In other words, is there any reason to believe that, if you are based on the citizen's interest, there are any examples that a citizen, having acquired the right not to receive digital mail, will nevertheless be able to use digital self-service? And when I ask that, it's because I'm asking, for example. In the municipality of Aalborg the answer has been given that so far no example of this has been seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152730	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152732	That is precisely what we are seeing in the dialogue and the initiative I described in my reply. But in structural terms I think it is quite simple: there is quite a difference between being obliged to receive all your mail from the public sector in a digital mailbox, including the post you do not know is on the way, if I may say so, that is what is the case with this type of request and then being able to serve the simplest digital self-service solutions, as is done for many citizens in it, if I may say private part of your life, for example. with online banking, travel bookings, online trading and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152813	Thank you. That was the end of the question. The next question has been put to the Minister for Finance, and it is also by Mr Beazley. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152823	Will the Minister take the initiative to ensure that citizens who are exempt from digital mail are also automatically exempted from the use of mandatory digital self-service solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152831	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121152832	I think it might remind you of the issue we have just discussed, but it may be that I am the only one who has not really taken the nuance. However, as I have indicated in the answer to the previous question, there is a difference between digital mail and digital self-service, and that is also why there is a difference between the rules. Citizens use the two types of communication with the public sector very differently, and therefore there are also different rules in both areas. With regard to digital self-service, citizens are guaranteed an opportunity for help, just as public authorities are obliged to serve citizens through an alternative communication channel if citizens cannot use digital self-service. The exception to digital self-service takes place from time to time, and this happens without an employee in Citizen Service having to look up a central register or without the citizen having to fill out an application to be exempted. We continuously follow up the use of digital communication by Danes with the public sector, and we can see that the use of digital self-service and digital mail is constantly increasing. The introduction of digital mail to all Danes happened three months ago, which is why I think it is too early to conclude whether the rules seem appropriate, and therefore I do not believe that at this stage there is any reason to depart from the basic principles adopted behind the model for exemption from digital self-service. Having said that, I would like to repeat that I am of course interested in hearing about the administration of the rules and how it is going on and whether it is going on differently than we expected, and therefore I would ask the Danish Digitalisation Authority to engage in a dialogue with the municipalities and with KL in order to get a comprehensive picture of any challenges that may be in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153014	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153015	It is true, as the Minister revealed, that there is a link between the two issues. I would have liked the Minister's first answer to be so positive that I could have drawn this question, because it would have been possible to achieve some glory in that direction. Unfortunately, the Minister's first reply was not so positive that it could be done, but we are still moving a little forward. I understand that what the Minister is saying is that today he is not ready to promise anything but that he will listen to the views of the municipalities and the KL. I must also understand that there is no principle here preventing the Minister from changing practice if it turns out that the practice and the rules adopted are inappropriate. In other words, if the municipalities are actually able to make it possible for what they are now doing and the way they are doing it, in other words, to lead only to increased inconvenience for the citizens and for the municipalities, then of course the Minister, who is a rational thinker who is in favour of always choosing the cheapest solution, will, of course, change these rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153119	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153120	After all, it is not a bad day when the acting President of the Danish Parliament confirms that one can count, and Enhedslisten confirms that one is a rational thinker. It's kind of unique in some way, so I'll take it home with me. The answer is a yes, in part positive, and of course we look at this openly. It is not so to destroy the good atmosphere, but I must also remind you that this is something that the government and a broad majority of the Folketing on the one hand and the Enhedslisten on the other have disagreed on all the way through. Well, Enhedslisten has turned against both the digital mail and the digital self-service, and even in several laps. So there is
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153202	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153204	Now I will be careful not to draw too far-reaching conclusions, but I would just like to say that, as the Minister of Finance has either already discovered or will discover, on this specific issue, I actually share the opinion of the entire board of the Aalborg City Council, where there is only one from the Enhedslisten, while the others are from other parties, of which at least a few or three are in principle very kind to the Minister of Finance. But I just want to confirm that it is the case that the Minister of Finance does not actually, if only we could get that assurance from the Minister, it would be good. Then we just need to clarify whether it is me and the Magistrate in Aalborg who are right, or the rules are right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153250	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153252	The commitment to dialogue has been given, and it is still valid, and besides that it has an exhaustive account of it, I think logical reasoning behind the fact that the rules are as they are and they are adopted as they are by a broad majority in the Folketing. ♪ 'Cause there's a... ♪
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153322	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153323	The Minister for Finance should not be criticised for repeating the same wording to a large extent over and over again; it has proved wiser when it comes to many ministers than to embark on too much creative thinking. But I would just like to say that the Minister is prepared for this discussion with KL and with the municipalities, and then we will have to see what comes out of it otherwise there may also be a broad majority for new and exciting things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153349	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153351	The safest thing is to say what you mean, and if you mean the same thing when asked the same thing, then you have to answer the same thing. Otherwise, you would say something other than what you meant, and that is usually a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153402	That was the end of the question. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, and thank him. Per Clausen. Then we move on to the next question put to the Minister for Justice by Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153416	Thank you. This question has been asked in the light of the terrible terrorist cases we have seen recently, and I ask the Minister for Justice: what significance does it have for PET's ability to combat terrorism for Denmark to resign from Europol cooperation, because the government will only hold a referendum on the reservation of law after the next parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153434	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153437	So, as the questioner knows, we in the government are firmly convinced that Denmark must be fully involved in Europol's work. This is, of course, something that I, as the Minister of Justice, attach great importance to, because there is a need for the Danish police to have access to all the information and to the cooperation that can be established at European level. The questioner probably also knows very well that a political agreement has been reached with the author's own party, namely the Left, on how we can ensure from the political team the best process, so that Denmark can be a full and integral part of Europol cooperation, including that we want to be • and it is explicitly stated in the agreement that a referendum will be held on the transformation of the legal relationship by the first quarter of 2016. So it's not a decision the government has made. It is a decision that the government has made with the parties of the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the SF. When it comes to Europol cooperation, it is difficult to say very precisely when Denmark can risk and I say risk, because I want us to be there to withdraw from the Europol cooperation we know today, because the proposal on Europol has not yet been finalised. There are trialogue negotiations with Parliament, and there is a lack of momentum in the negotiations that we are also experiencing in other areas. It is therefore difficult for me to say when there is a final result. When there is a result, there will certainly be a transitional period, and as things stand now, it is our expectation that the new Europol will not be up and running before the referendum on the reservation of law. It is our clear goal that we can maintain our membership. I would also like to say that all criminal and police cooperation is very, very important for both Denmark and Europe when it comes to combating cross-border crime, and we have far too much of that, not least in the field of terrorism. We need common databases, for example. about foreign fighters, and we also want a common European passenger register. It is also important for me to say that when we talk about Europol, we are talking about cooperation between the police we call the open police, that is, the ordinary, traditional police. It is not a forum for our intelligence services, and so I say that when it comes to PET's ability to exchange information and experience with other intelligence services, it does not take place narrowly in Europol. It takes place in the forums of our intelligence services located elsewhere. It is, moreover, cooperation that we know works not only at European level, but also with other intelligence services, such as the United States. So the answer, when asked specifically about the importance of PET's action against terrorism, as one of the most important safeguards we have, is that it will probably hardly have any concrete significance in relation to Europol cooperation, because, as the questioner hopefully knows, this is cooperation between the police we call the open police.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153739	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153741	Yes, I am well aware that we have a European agreement. This European agreement has a follow-up group to decide how to make this option model that we have been talking about. But there is nothing to prevent us from taking the vote on the reservation as soon as the follow-up group finishes its work. You can wait until March 2016, but no one says you have to wait that long. Could this not be an opportunity now that we have a higher level of threat in Denmark than we have had for a long time? It may well be that the threat level is not raised, but we feel at least somewhat more threatened, and that is why we are saying that it is perhaps now that we have to take this decision so that we ensure that the police can cooperate more closely across Europe. Some of those who, as far as I am aware, have been arrested in connection with the case here in France were arrested in Bulgaria on the basis of the police cooperation we have, among other things. through Europol. Then it could not be an obvious opportunity for us to say: well, then, let us hurry up and get it over with so that we can continue to work closely together to combat crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153841	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153842	After all, there is a clear political agreement with the process and the way forward that we between the five parties think is the right one. It is true that more analysis is currently being carried out on the whole of the legislation, but as far as Europol is concerned, the position of the government is quite clear: Denmark must be there. This is absolutely necessary for our police. It is therefore also important to say that our intelligence services are working together. They have done so for a long time, and they must continue to do so. It is absolutely essential for us to be able to take sufficient action against terrorism that there is integrated cooperation, but that is not closely connected with Europol because our intelligence services are working together elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153927	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153928	Well, could it not be an obvious opportunity, so to say that now that we feel more threatened than we have before, we are speeding up this vote on the legal reservation? We can do that according to the European agreement. There is nothing to prevent it, it just has to be by March 2016. Could we not, after the follow-up group has finished, speed up this vote so that we are sure not to smoke out of Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153950	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121153951	Well, I assume that the Left supports the political agreement on Europol and the transformation of the legal reservation into an electoral system that has just been concluded. At least we respect it on the part of the government, and that is why we are following the plan, but it is absolutely crucial for us as a government that Denmark can continue to be part of Europol. That is, in fact, the basis on which we have drawn up a European political agreement at all in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154018	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154020	Yes, the Minister can be quite calm, we support the European Agreement, but Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said, even when the agreement was concluded, that we would like to see a vote as soon as possible. That is why I think this is an obvious opportunity to say that now that we feel more threatened, let us make sure that we do not get out of Europol. Let us have that vote as quickly as we can get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154041	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154042	Well, there are some things that get mixed up. I have to say that, in the fight against terrorism, our main tool is, of course, our intelligence service, because that is where we can provide the information that can form the basis for both our prevention and our counter-terrorist attacks. And it is not narrowly Europol cooperation that determines whether we have an effective intelligence service in Denmark or whether we have it across borders. That does not change the fact that it is important for the open police that we are part of Europol. That is why we want to get rid of the legal reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154114	Thank you. That was the end of Question 7. Question 8 is put to the Minister for Justice, and it is also by Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154125	Question 6 states: What will the government do to ensure that PET's ability to combat terrorism will not be weakened if Denmark has to withdraw from Europol cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154132	For the sake of good order, I would just like to say that this is Question 8, we are at the moment, and not Question 6. Just for the record, it's a minor detail. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154143	Europol cooperation is important for the open Danish police. That is why we want to get rid of the legal reservation and turn it into an opt-in system. When it comes to our intelligence service and the fight against terrorism, it is the government's clear conviction that we need a strong intelligence service. This applies both in the national focus and also in the possibility of cross-border cooperation. Fortunately, our intelligence service can.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154209	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154211	Can the Minister tell me whether it is the police or the PET who would issue an arrest warrant if it were in Bulgaria? That is, of course, what determines whether or not it will fall within the scope of Europol cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154225	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154226	I am not going into specific matters here in the Assembly. What the questioner is asking me is whether we can ensure that we have an effective intelligence service in relation to Europol. We will do everything we can by the government in the fight against terrorism when it comes to ensuring that we have effective intelligence services. Europol is primarily a cooperation for the open police. This is essential in a number of areas, of course, first and foremost where cross-border crime is involved. But there is something wrong in the questioner's premise, because fortunately we can also have an effective intelligence service alongside the traditional Europol cooperation, because our intelligence services work together elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154311	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154312	Will the Minister then think that it is not because of Europol cooperation that France can arrest people in their terrorist case in Bulgaria via the Bulgarian police? Is it not Europol cooperation that does this? Can the Minister tell me about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154327	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154328	I mean, this is a strange discussion and I am not going into quite specific criminal matters. A European political agreement has been reached. I fully agree that the questioner has not taken part in the negotiations on this, nor is he doing so in the analysis that is going on right now, when we have agreed on a perfectly clear plan of how we want to meet the Danes in our joint political effort to change the Danish legal reservation. We have just concluded the agreement, that was a short time ago. We are currently working on the analysis and I would urge the Left to continue to support the process we have jointly agreed, because it is crucial that Denmark should continue to be able to participate in Europol cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154404	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154405	As I have already said, the Left supports the European Agreement. I just repeat what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said immediately after the conclusion that we would like to see a vote more quickly. That's all. Then I would like to know what this has to do with the fight against terrorism. If it is not PET, it may be that the police need to be able to arrest people in other EU countries. Will they lose that opportunity if we leave Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154429	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154430	It is clear that in a number of areas it has consequences if Denmark has to withdraw from Europol cooperation. That is why we do not want it to happen. That is why we have a very, very clear political indication that we want Denmark to be a central part of Europol cooperation. Then we have made a political agreement on a referendum. That agreement was concluded in December, and we therefore intend to abide by it by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154454	Thank you. That was the end of Question 8. Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Then we go to Question 9 and it is addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154507	For the sake of good order, I should like to inform you that the co-questioner of Question 9 and the co-questioner of Question 10 are deleted. But now it's Question 9, and it's Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154519	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with Professor Jørn Vestergaard, who stated that the government's wavering attitude to the issue of treason in relation to persons joining the Islamic State has decisively weakened the possibility of having people convicted of treason?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154536	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154537	No, I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154540	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154542	That's a nice short answer. What Jørn Vestergaard has said is that there has been a lack of clarity about the scope of the provision and that any defence lawyer will therefore be able to ask: if the Ministry does not know the scope of the provision, how will his client know whether he is guilty of treason? So, in order to have violated the penal code, we must have the intention to violate it, and if the Minister helps to ensure that there is this ambiguity as to what treason really is, then it will be relatively easy for a skilled defense attorney to get his client acquitted. If the highest authority, if we disregard the courts themselves, the Ministry of Justice, has said that it is unclear, then it will be difficult for the prosecution to get through a case of treason. I also think that, to put it mildly, there are various statements coming from the various ministers in the government. I understand from the Minister for Justice that it is the Minister for Justice's opinion that the provision on treason should be applied and that we would like to see some cases, at the same time as our Foreign Minister has said that there is absolutely no such thing as treason in the penal code. He's been told that by the Ministry of Justice, and I've heard the same thing in consultation. Confusion of concepts therefore makes it more difficult to get anyone convicted. In the light of this clarification, will the Minister perhaps take a closer look at my question than just a single word?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154722	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154723	I'd love to. I am just not buying the premise that confusion has been created, because what the Ministry of Justice has said is that there may be a doubt of interpretation, and that has to do with the fact that it is provisions that are old and that have also come at a different time and in a different situation in terms of wars and conflicts than the one we are in right now. My position is clear. My political position is clear. It is a fundamental grotesque and absurd situation that we, as a country, society, state, send Danish soldiers in battle against the Islamic State, one of the worst terrorist organisations on the planet right now, and that the very same soldiers who put their lives on the brink may be attacked by Danish citizens or resident foreigners. In my view, this is treason, and that is what I have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154811	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154812	We quite agree with that, and I am pleased that, unlike the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister uses the term for the provisions of the penal code, namely treason, which also goes back to criminal law literature and so on. It is therefore surprising that this confusion has arisen, which the Minister does not consider to be vague, and I find it difficult to see how it can be thought to be otherwise. As I read the provisions of the penal code on treason, the bar, if I may say so, is lower than it is for terrorism, for there one can be judged for having provided the enemy only by advice or deed, one can be judged for perpetuation, one can be judged for propaganda in favour of enemy war or occupation. So there are a number of elements in the rules of treason that make the bar lower and that therefore everything else should be easier to raise in criminal proceedings. Can we expect the prosecution to try to have some of the returned Syrians convicted for treason? Will the Minister take an active part in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154924	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121154926	In other words, many elements are now included in the questioner's speech. It is true that helping the enemy in battle against Denmark and against Danish soldiers is one of my concerns. Because we know very well that judging people under the rules of terrorism is a difficult thing, and I think that what is my task, as far as the so-called Syrians are concerned, is to prevent them from leaving and contribute to the extremism we see in the Middle East and thus also to ensure that they do not return to Denmark, perhaps even more radicalised and at risk to the security of the Danish state and to all of us who live here. The second is to do what we can to ensure that those concerned are also prosecuted, and I would then like to ensure that there are so many ways in which the rules on terrorism can be applied in some respects, and the criminal code can be applied in some respects. But I also believe that this is treason and, if there is any question of interpretation, I think it is important to clarify it. That is why I am not buying the stand on the wavering, because the government has said throughout this discussion that it is essential to clarify this question why the Criminal Code Council has been asked to start its work. I have then brought this work forward because I think it is important to get it in place and, of course, because I think we should be able to reply very clearly to this question in the legal field too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155045	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155047	In other words, I note that one minister says that there is nothing called treason in the penal code; he has been told by the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice that it is there and that we must now try the rules. I'm mostly leaning on the Minister of Justice's position. However, I find it difficult to understand the fact that there has been no ambiguity on this issue. I therefore hope that the Criminal Code Council will make its recommendations as soon as possible so that we can clarify the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155115	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155119	I hope so too, and that is why I have asked the President of the Criminal Code Council to bring forward the work of the Council, because I think it is essential to get it in place. It is also important for me to say that it is not the case that those concerned could not be punished, but of course it requires that they can be dealt with, as it were, within the rules that exist. It is not the case that it is free to travel to Syria or Iraq and to participate and contribute to the Islamic State. I just want to make sure that there are as many ways in as possible. When I am concerned about this, it is, of course, linked to the fact that, as the questioner knows as well as I am, what is difficult to lift the burden of proof in this area, because it is events that take place far away from us, as we know from other situations as well. So you can say that there are a lot of legal things in this, and the Criminal Code Council is going to help us clarify that. It is important that we do not legislate with our heads under our arms or in any other way uninformed or unanswered, but that is why, as a society, we can send out the clear signal of doing so, in other words going out as a foreign fighter, as a Syrian warrior, we are not only contributing to a terrorist organisation, the Islamic State, and creating instability in the Middle East, but we are helping the enemy or attacking Danish forces, including traitors. I think it is also important to be able to send out the clear signal in terms of value.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155239	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. That was the end of Question 9. Question 10 is addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155249	Thank you. And the question is: does the Minister think it is satisfactory that none of the approx. Fifty returned Syrian warriors known to the police intelligence service have been punished for their actions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155302	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155306	In other words, there is no doubt that the conflict we see in the Middle East and the contribution of Danish citizens to it and their return is one of the greatest security risks in Denmark and, as such, worldwide. That is why I think our main task is to prevent more people from leaving, so that we can prevent Danes from contributing to the conflict and to the Islamic State, which is one of the most undemocratic, inhumane organisations that is, but also so that they do not subsequently pose a risk when they return. That is why we have just first dealt with a bill to be able to deprive people of the passport. I'm glad the Left seems to back it up. As I have just said to the previous questioner, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen also well, the evidence challenges are great in this field, why avoiding people leaving at all should probably have our primary focus. The evidence to which our prosecution authorities in Denmark are subject is something very, very fundamental in being a constitutional state. And I think everyone understands why it's hard to find the evidence. However, we must stick to the general principles of law that apply to our public prosecutor, and therefore also insist that it is the prosecution's responsibility to raise cases. However, the prosecution must, of course, do so on the right basis of proof.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155442	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155443	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The reason why we have asked this question is because we in the Left have also asked a number of questions to the Prime Minister about why the government has not done more in this area in the past, but the Prime Minister has not wanted to answer that, but then we are glad that the Minister of Justice will answer that we actually regard it as a very big problem that we are reacting so late in Denmark. The Minister is right, of course, that there are legal guarantees, and they must of course be respected and respected, but it is ultimately the courts who decide whether or not a burden of proof has been lifted. And, of course, there is something very special about terrorist law that it is the Minister of Justice who ultimately takes a position on this, as is stated in Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code on cases to be brought. It is also the Minister of Justice who has the opportunity to do so that the current Minister of Justice may not have been blamed for not having done so, because the Minister has been a minister for such a short time, but there have, however, been predecessors of the same party color to instruct the prosecutor in the importance of collecting evidence, the importance of cooperating with PET and other authorities, so that we can prosecute the Syrians who have been in Syria and fought on the side of the Islamic State and with a certain likelihood of violating Danish law. I have to say that we in the Left are a little disappointed by the government's lack of effort. That is why we have asked the question, which the Minister unfortunately does not answer, namely whether the Minister considers it satisfactory. So it is true that there may be all sorts of considerations to lift the burden of proof and other things, but does the Minister of Justice think that it is a political attitude and a political discussion that it is satisfactory that, unlike other countries, we have not been convicted of any of these Syrians who have gone out and returned to Denmark and therefore, according to PET, at present constitutes a very significant and major terrorist threat to Danish society? Does the Minister find it satisfactory that none of them has been convicted?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155647	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155647-2	Well, if people commit criminal acts and don't get convicted, I can never be satisfied with it. I would have liked to have convicted those who commit something criminal, and I would have liked to do so in particular when it comes to such large crimes and as violent crimes as you can be a part of and commit when you travel to Syria or Iraq. But I just have to maintain that I am not the judge in Denmark, and it is probably very good that it is not. It is probably also very good to respect the division of power, even if we are faced with a problematic situation in the Middle East. The prosecution is well aware of the seriousness of this issue, otherwise the prosecution is not an adult, so of course the prosecutor knows it. And the prosecution in Denmark knows that one of their most important tasks right now is this area. Of course the prosecution knows. What is the question is whether there should be a political instruction and should be done, as the Left says, to decide in advance that any future bourgeois government can already say what it wants to impose on the prosecution. I think that has never happened before, and I think that we should even think carefully about whether this is the way we want to run our judicial system. And this has nothing to do with whether we disagree with the core of the issue: if you go to Syria or Iraq, contribute to the crimes of Islamic State, commit acts against humanity, you must, of course, be held responsible if we can get to it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155814	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155815	Thank you for your answer. I don't understand why the Minister of Justice is going this way. That's perfectly legitimate. We bourgeois parties have been pointing out for several years that we wanted these Syrians to be prosecuted, and we have been asking time and time again I have asked the current Minister of Justice and the two predecessors of the Minister of Justice why there has been no more focus on this. There may be many good reasons, but in a number of other European countries people have been convicted who have been able to lift a burden of proof. And it says in section 110 (f) of the Criminal Code: The crimes referred to in this chapter are in all cases the subject of public prosecutions, which are made at the direction of the Minister of Justice. So in relation to these terrorist cases there is therefore a very special responsibility and some very special opportunities on the shoulders of the Minister of Justice sitting at any time, and so we are just wondering why we have not taken advantage of those opportunities, I would say in all silence to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155906	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155906-2	It is just still the case that the prosecution in criminal proceedings presupposes that it is assessed that a criminal offence has been committed and, so to speak, you cannot just raise an indictment because you want to see what the courts say. That is the way the Danish legislation works, and I think we need to respect that. That does not change anything about the fact that the responsible authorities in this area, whether we are talking about the police intelligence service, the police or the prosecution, should be extremely obsessed with this issue, and I am of course also referring to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155947	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121155948	Thank you. But Denmark is one of the countries where there are most Syrians per year. residents who have travelled out. There may be all sorts of explanations, and they may be valid enough, but what remains is, of course, that someone has been convicted in England, in the Netherlands, in Belgium, in Germany. And then you just have to wonder why it has not succeeded in Denmark. From some of these countries as many have travelled from Denmark to Syria, and they are likely to contribute to the same things. I think the government ought to give a clear answer to that. That's what's left, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160022	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160023	What remains is that Denmark, like a number of mainly Western societies, has a great challenge in that its own nationals or residents leave our open, free, democratic society to join a terrorist organisation that, right now, wherever they come, brings death and destruction. Those who do so must be stopped in their behaviour and in their departure. That is why we would like to be able to remove the passport from those concerned. And, of course, the authorities must do everything they can to prosecute those concerned so that they are held to account. I assume the authorities are fully aware of this. When it comes to ensuring that there are ways of getting those concerned convicted, it is important that we keep making sure that we have up-to-date legislation. That's why the Criminal Law Council has been asked to look at the entire legal complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160118	Thank you. As far as I understand it, that means that we are done with Question No. 10, and I thank Karsten Lauritzen and thank the Minister for Justice. We move on to the Minister for Culture, who is next in question, and the questioner is here Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160137	Thank you. The question is: will the Minister work to ensure that Qatar loses the World Cup hostage, in view of Qatar systematically suppressing fundamental human rights and allowing migrant workers to work under slave-like conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160153	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160155	Thank you for the question. It is not governments that decide the hosts of major international sporting events. The hosts will be decided in private by international sports organisations made up of national sports federations, and in the case of the World Football Championship, the host is thus decided by FIFA, where DBU from Denmark is a member. However, the government is very serious about Qatar's failure to respect human rights, and the government is therefore constantly pushing for Qatar to respect human rights. The United Nations has recommended that Qatar reform the Labour Code with a view to guaranteeing workers' rights for all workers and establishing mechanisms to improve enforcement of the law. And the government's recommendations were accepted in September 2014 under the auspices of the UN. It is therefore agreed that Qatar, like all other countries, must comply with its international obligations, and the government will continue to follow up on this matter. I hope that FIFA Members will be present. The national football federations will take up the debate in FIFA that the greatest possible effort is being made to press Qatar for Qatar to respect human rights. Although we cannot decide on the part of governments where the international sports federations are to organise their major international sporting events, we are in fact discussing in the European Union what governments could do to put political pressure on international sports federations to organise sporting events in countries that respect human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160339	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160341	Thank you for your answer, which was also a little more detailed than the reply that the Minister has given to Mr Van den Broek. Uffe Elbæk, which is excellent. My question must then be whether the Minister has already made contact today with sports organisations and football organisations, both nationally and internationally, in order to push so that in future they do not put world championships in dictatorship states such as the United States. Qatar.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160413	Well, this is something we are discussing very, very often in sports circles, including in Denmark, and we are also discussing, as I have said, in the context of the European Union, how we can press our respective sports organisations, that is, the sports federations represented in the international sports federations. That's the way we're going. After all, the starting point is still that sport is based on private associations, and that is why it is not a government matter. We cannot go in and, in this sense, take over the role of private associations internationally through their membership of the international sports federations. It is also embarrassing to me that we are in a situation in which, if we in Denmark want to support our own athletes in order for them to be able to take part in the competitions in which they wish to participate, we must accept that it should take place in countries that we cannot respect because they do not respect human rights. So yes, we are working on it, and it is a theme that is taken up very often.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160522	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160523	Well, the minister might just have to say, "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or "Life" or That's what this is about for the Minister. And that is true, because it is the sports organisations that are doing this, and it is not at government level. But the Minister uses words to discuss, and is that really enough? Does the Minister not think that she can do more in this regard? Then I should like to ask whether the Minister will take part in the Qatar World Cup if she is then a minister and gets an invitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160557	There is, of course, no arm's length arm in the sense that we use the concept of arm's length in the field of cultural policy here, because there is just a division of labour. We respect that we have private associations, we work with them, but we are also discussing these relations with them. I know that DBU is actually doing quite a lot to create movement in FIFA in order to get a different type of decision when it comes to placing the major sporting events, and they are doing so in all the other federations. So there's a lot of attention to it. Yes, I discuss things with people, and it is just as serious as when I talk to them or do something, but I discuss and talk to them. I'm not in charge of them, but I'm in a dialogue with them. I am not going to participate in Qatar, but it has nothing to do with whether or not I would do it if I received an invitation, it is because I simply cannot, and I have chosen to say that I do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160656	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160658	I'm a little disappointed. Radical politicians often cannot help but talk about human rights in their mouths. They dream of what they say on every occasion when it is in Denmark, but as soon as it comes to concrete action, I always need the Minister to take the handbag and start using it. And in this case, I think the Minister is doing too little. She should push more instead of just discussing, because that is simply not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160734	Well, I'm very happy to hear suggestions from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen for what I should do more specifically, because I think that would be very interesting. What kind of trick do I need, what kind of power do I need with private associations that are self-propelled in Denmark and that we respect because they have their own integrity and responsibility, etc. etc.? What is it, sir? Alex Ahrendtsen thinks I should do to DBU?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160800	Yes, I have to say that this is the final debate for today. I thank the Minister for Culture. Alex Ahrendtsen I'd like to answer that. ) Yes, I have no doubt, but Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen must find ways within the Danish Parliament's rules to have occasion to do so. It's not gonna be right now, anyway. I thank Alex Ahrendtsen and thank the Minister for Culture, and I welcome the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs, who is now going to answer questions. The question he has to answer today is from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160831	Thank you. What significance does the Minister consider that the tariffs on Storebælt have for the rural areas around Storebælt and their ability to develop?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121160840	I am, of course, aware of the debate that has taken place on the tariffs on Storebælt and its development implications. The easiest thing for me would be to say that we are reducing tariffs, but I might as well say right away that I am not going to take part in some popularity competition, because there is still a debt of 24 billion. DKK to be paid. I also understand that the Left and Conservatives, as the parties responsible for the agreement, are all agreed that, of course, we must pay back. Having said that, I would like to stress straight away that it is my good colleague, the Minister for Transport, who is the minister responsible in this area and that questions of a more technical nature relating to the bridge must of course be put to him. First of all, however, I would like to remind you that the prices for crossing Storebælt are already at the current rate of DKK 235. is halved compared to the 470 DKK. in 2015 prices, it would cost if we had maintained ferry service; it is therefore more than a halving. In addition, studies show that the bridge is of the utmost benefit to the surrounding areas, where on Funen you are the ones who get the biggest gain from the bridge. It is a win for the whole of Denmark, but in fact the Danes save an average of 6.3 hours in travel time because of the Storebælt connection, where the Funen people save a total of 9.2 hours. So the Funenmen save 50 percent. More. I also recognise that physical infrastructure such as bridges and roads and public transport are important for life and development in the Danish rural areas. However, physical infrastructure alone does not create development, and therefore it is important that we support it with good framework conditions and general business development. This is done through efforts on several fronts, so that we can support the development of the Danish rural areas. I think that has also been reflected in government policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161025	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161025-2	Thank you. I would like to start by stating that for the Left it is actually crucial that we have a Denmark in balance, because the Left is crucial that we ensure labour mobility, and for the Left it is crucial that there are good opportunities to move across municipal boundaries, regional boundaries and greater physical distances in order to take a job. There is no doubt that the bridge charges are slowing down both growth and development on Funen. After all, the Minister himself mentioned business, and that is precisely what the business community can confirm: that the bridge charges are slowing down growth and development. If you ask the juice company Rynkeby, you can be told that every year they pay 6 million. kr. I was recently able to read in Fyens Stiftstidende, where the Minister is on the front page of the bridge charge today, that according to CEO Hans Christian Munck, Munck Asphalt in Nyborg could create many new jobs if the bridge did not push competitiveness, to mention just two examples. The Left has actually listened to the business community. We have put forward a proposal, on the one hand, to make the commuter card cheaper and, on the other hand, to increase the transport allowance. The question is: what do the Socialists want? I have noted that the Minister for Transport, as the Minister also mentioned, has announced that we are willing to look at commuting tariffs, and that is also the message that the Minister himself makes in the paper today, but what is the point of being willing to look at commuting tariffs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161153	Mrs Jane Heitmann makes it sound as if the Left is running from the bridge settlement and will not pay the money, and I hope that is not true. The Left, as a responsible party, is behind the agreement that lies, I hope very much, because it is absolutely crucial that it applies. The proposal that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen joined Fyens Stiftstidende, our Transport Minister has addressed this in the way that you will look at it positively, and if Left raises it in the conciliation circle, you will look at it. But of course there are some complications, because there are some ferries both on the Kattegat lines and the Spodsbjerg-Tår line and other ferry lines that depend on it. However, I think that this is a sympathetic proposal which I support, in the conciliation circle, for the Minister of Transport to look further into.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161245	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161246	I mean, this isn't about running out of a settlement. This is about the fact that we in the Left want to create growth and jobs. And one of the ways to do this is to listen to the Funen business community and to put forward a proposal to adjust the commuter tax down, and we have done so in concrete terms by proposing a cheaper commuter card and an increased transport allowance. But if I'm to be honest, Minister, I actually think it's a little sticky in all directions. For the Minister's party colleagues Trine Bramsen and John Dyrby Paulsen have in a joint debate, among others. in Fyens Amtsavis, written that it skews Denmark when a payment boom and 235 DKK. per trip separates Funen from Sjælland. In Fyens Stiftstidende, Jan Johansen stated that the bridge tariff is a barrier. Trine Bramsen also said in Fyens Stiftstidende on 7 January: I do not think that the Left goes far enough; in the long run it should cost nothing at all. Trine Bramsen also told Fyens.dk on 6 January that the prices to pass the Storebælt must be reduced for everyone; in the long term it should not cost anything at all. I would like to ask: what really is the attitude of the government? Is it the government's opinion that it shouldn't cost anything? Or is it the view of the government that it may and may not have promised anything to be looked at again in time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161403	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161403-2	Back in 2009, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, for negotiations to extend the repayment period on Storebælt. Of course, we could have said, as conciliation partners, that we would not be involved in this, because it was 9 billion. kr. that had to be paid up to 2020, but we did so because we could see that you could actually invest. This was the case, among other things. Odin's Bridge across the channel connection on Funen, which I put on the table, and where we lacked Funen County funding for it. We also did so because we could get the third track across West Funen and a lot of other investments, among others. in cycling and buses etc. Having said that, however, there is no doubt whatsoever that we support the compromise, as Mrs Jane Heitmann knows very well. In relation to what some party colleagues say, that is a little like what Mrs Jane Heitmann says today, when she raises some doubts as to whether or not the Left is behind the bridge settlement, but I certainly hope they do. But there is no doubt about what the government and social democracy mean here: of course we support the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161502	Then we have a fellow questioner, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161506	I would like to hear from our rural minister what importance the rural minister is experiencing the opportunity to create employment across Storebælt for the development of jobs and for the whole labour market. Studies have been carried out to show that Funen, together with the Triangle area, acts as one labour market, but it does not do so in the opposite direction, and that is also what we can see in the Region of Zealand where I come from. We can see that we are the region in Denmark which has been most affected by the crisis and which has lost most jobs. That is why it is essential to look at creating more mobility so that we have development and jobs. Is the Minister aware of the challenge of creating development and jobs in these areas and on the barrier to Storebælt's tariffs? It could give enormous growth if only the cost of commuters were reduced and the transport allowance for Storebælt were raised, so I would like to know if this is something the Minister would like to take up soon. I have heard that the Minister agrees with the Minister for Transport, but when does the Minister expect us to look at this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161616	After all, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm has been a member of the Danish Parliament for so many years that she knows that it is the transport minister's resort and that it is also the Ministry of Transport that these things are being negotiated. I have indicated, both in the newspaper today, as Mrs Jane Heitmann said, but also on previous occasions, that I think this is an exciting proposal which must be discussed in the conciliation circle. I don't think we can do that anymore today. But having said that, I would like to say that there are actually 5,000 people commuting from Odense to Zealand every day. This means that we have considerably expanded our labour market. I can also see, when I take the train from Odense Station, that there are a lot of people commuting the other way. So in this way it has been of great importance to the labour market. And the ones on Funen are the ones who get the most out of this. We hope that the Zealanders will have that. Among other things: As far as I understand, we have set up a department of the University of Southern Denmark which is the largest department they have at the University of Southern Denmark in Slagelse with 2,300 year-olds. That is certainly the figure that has been given to me. So in this way we have the mutual benefit and benefit of it, and I also know that across the bridge there is cooperation in the field of health. So there are many exciting things going on. It is clear that the price means something, but surely we are also responsible parties to ensure that that bridge is paid back again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161727	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161729	I also asked the Minister to explain what it is important for rural areas to be able to get cheaply over a bridge. Kraka did a study that showed that the optimal price over Storebælt, as far as I remember, was 1 DKK. The Left has come up with a fully funded proposal just to reduce commuter tariffs. This would be of enormous benefit to the development of the region. So will the Minister recognise the need for development in the Region of Zealand and on Funen and the importance it has for the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161814	I would like to acknowledge that we have a great need to develop our rural areas and support them with good framework conditions both on Funen and on Zealand. Of course, I'd like to say that. I think it was 5 kroner, as Kraka suggested, but I don't want it to separate us. But the premise was that it was all the drivers in the country who had to pay and that it had to be via a road pricing system, which the previous government gave up. We have also given it up, because I am aware that there is not a road pricing system today. I have been informed that is working properly. That's one part of it. Because the bridge has to be paid. Otherwise, we must save on the cost of either the old or our schools or our children to get the 24 billion. kr., which is missing, in, and I don't think any of the parties will be involved in that. So it is actually a very good arrangement that those who commute over the bridge help to pay for it. That was also the prerequisite when the Social Democracy and the Conservatives made this settlement at the time. So may I not just say that for a commuter from Odense, who sits in the standard class, o p goes up with the deduction that is today. That's why so many people commute both one way and the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161917	Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann who has the last question at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121161919	Thank you. I can hardly but think that it is almost tragic when the Minister mentions the SDU here. After all, the Minister's government colleague, the Minister for Education, has just presented a dimensioning plan, which means that Chinese, Arabic and Spanish are being closed down at SDU, and now the Minister is standing here highlighting the SDU as a place with a certain potential for development, knowing that education is now being shut down. It's almost tragic, but I'm gonna go back to today's question. The Minister of Transport has sent an open letter to the Funenmen, and I would now like to quote a line from there. He writes: "I am, of course, open to looking at initiatives that can improve commuters' conditions on Storebælt, for example. We in the government will look into these possibilities. Will the Minister not elaborate here on what these are specifically for opportunities, and what they are going to look at, and when?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162023	I do not know how Mrs Jane Heitmann hears, but what I said was that the SDU had a very, very large department in Slagelse. I am delighted that in this way you can service Slagelse and have good cooperation across the belt. This has nothing to do with the dimensioning of education. Or maybe Mrs. Jane Heitmann can't hear at all. That's what's a little exciting to solve. That's one. The second is that when the Minister of Transport indicates that he is open to it, then the Left must submit their proposals in the conciliation circle, and then the consequences of that must be discussed. I have said three times now that I think this is an exciting proposal which I agree with the Minister for Transport that we should look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162056	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It is addressed to the Minister for Education, and the questioner is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162109	Thank you. The question is: will the Minister strengthen the supervision of Muslim free schools after the case of Iqbal International School, where there has been no training for months, but still received public subsidies?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162125	Thank you for the question. Of course, all free primary schools, regardless of their background, must meet the professional requirements that exist, and this applies to everyone: firstly, that they must provide education that is in line with what is generally required in primary school; and secondly, that schools must prepare pupils for life in a society such as the Danish one, with freedom and popular rule, and develop and strengthen pupils' knowledge and respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights, including gender equality. This is the rule which applies to all free primary schools. This also applies, of course, to primary schools which, like Iqbal International School, have a religious affiliation. If it is the case that the school does not live up to it, then of course it is not entitled to receive a state subsidy. This case, which we have with Iqbal International School, is an individual case which is being examined by the Quality and Supervision Board of the Ministry of Education. It is the case that KTS, to use the short form of the Quality and Supervision Board, has stopped the grant to the school per year. 1 December 2014 because the Board was informed that there was allegedly no longer any education at the school and that the school's teachers had been dismissed and were not paid. Now KTS has asked the school board for an account of how much the school has held from the start of this school year until the end of November 2014, and the board has a deadline for replying to the board on 26 January. And, of course, once we have that statement, we will take a position on the further progress of the school. I would like to stress that I consider this to be an isolated matter, which we of course take very seriously. That's also why the board's in on it now. However, I do not think it is this case that provides a general basis for strengthening the supervision of Muslim free schools. These must be high demands that we make on all free primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162312	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162313	We've had this discussion before. We have had a question debate in which the Minister rejected the need for stricter supervision. We have tried to have a hearing on it, it was also rejected. And this case clearly shows that it is by chance if the Board of Quality and Supervision discovers that there is something wrong with the management of public funds. It was three or four months before you even found out. The head of the school is a pretty notorious person. His name is Mohammed Aslam, I think he is still a social democrat, has certainly been, and has also been in the citizens' representation. He has also been part of the resident democracy in Mjølnerparken. So it is a man who knows how the Danish system works. Still, he's been able to line up the system for so long. There have been no pupils who have not been taught. The extra magazine has covered it through a large number of articles, and the Minister has well explained what is wrong with it. The only thing is that it takes so long for it to be discovered and that it happens on the basis of a request. I myself am now in a municipal council, and this is not an isolated case, as was also shown in the question debate. There are a large number of examples of Muslim free schools in particular having difficulty meeting the requirements. That is why we want stricter supervision, which must apply to all free schools, but where supervision can then keep an extra eye on the newer Muslim free schools in particular, which have difficulty in finding out what is ours and what is theirs. Therefore, I should just like to urge the Minister to answer the question: how will she strengthen supervision so that in future we avoid these non-individual cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162518	After all, I think that the questioner must recognise that exactly what has to happen has happened if we do not comply with the rules, which are clear: the requirements for primary education, including those relating to freedom, equality, the rule of the people, have to be met. As soon as this was brought to the attention of the Board of Quality and Supervision, the matter was dealt with. They are no longer receiving subsidies, and we are waiting for a statement which will be here in a few days' time on the further progress. That's the way it's supposed to be for anyone who doesn't live up to it. There have been some free schools based on a Muslim basis; there have been some free schools based on a Christian basis; there have been other free schools with a different idea-political basis, which unfortunately did not measure up to what they should do. Therefore, there have also been cases where subsidies to others have been stopped. It's because we take it seriously. Of course, you have to live up to the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162611	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162612	After all, the Quality Control Authority has only discovered it because they have been made aware of it. The big problem, of course, is that it is the schools themselves that are choosing their overseer today. There are some handles that the Minister could screw up if it was that she wanted to tighten up the supervision. We have, of course, tried to get a hearing on the subject, among other things. Muslim free schools and free schools in general. We have not yet succeeded. So I should like to ask the Minister whether she still thinks it is a good idea for schools to choose their own overseer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162650-2	It is quite true that the free primary schools can choose either to find a supervisor via the municipality or to have a parent-elected certified supervisor, and that was the tightening that happened in terms of certification if it is a parent-elected overseer. As far as I remember, because it was a major discussion we had in this Chamber, the Danish People's Party supported the tightening that was so that they had to be certified, because it was important. That requirement wasn't there before. On the other hand, there was no majority in favour of abolishing the possibility of choosing a parent representative who would then have to be certified. So I think it is extremely important that we treat all free primary schools equally, regardless of their background, and if they do not comply with the rules, they must of course also have the extra supervision, including the withdrawal of the grant, as has happened in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162742	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162744	After all, the Danish People's Party loves all sorts of tightenings, which is why we naturally voted for it and supported the Minister in it. The problem is that it is apparently not enough. In other words, there is certification, and yet it takes 3-4 months for it to be discovered, but only because it is brought to your attention. This suggests that the system isn't working. We also know that Muslim free schools in particular, not all, but especially Muslim free schools, find it difficult to deal with public subsidies. There have been a large number of cases for the last 10-15 years; you can just read Ahmed Akkari's book, he himself has been a free school teacher. Therefore, I should just like to call on the Minister once more to strengthen supervision. I think it's about time. We have stories.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162834	I think that this example shows exactly why it is important that you can go into it as soon as you are made aware that things are not working as they should. As soon as it was brought to the attention of the Board of Quality and Supervision, they also went in and stopped for the grant. There will be a statement about what will happen next very soon. So I actually think this shows that supervision works.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162857	Thank you to the Minister for Education, and thank you to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the This is for the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs, and the question has been put by Mrs Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162915	What is the Minister's response to the social educators when they call for clearer rules on the use of force?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121162925	The effort towards children and young people is something that we in the Danish Parliament have discussed many times. We have also been in agreement for many years on the results we have now achieved. Against this background, we have also made a great many good reforms in this area, which, fortunately, are based on a broad majority. There should be no doubt at all that I am very pleased about this, because we owe it to the children at risk and, of course, to the young people too, that there is agreement on precisely this effort and that we are preparing thoroughly before we take action that affects their lives. This is particularly true when it comes to something as intrusive as the use of force against children and young people who are placed outside the home. The framework we set out must strike the right balance, and they must ensure that the placement places organise the good educational courses in conjunction with a really good daily life for children and, of course, also for young people. At the same time, they must ensure respect for the rights of children and young people, which we will only interfere with if this is strictly necessary. It is the government's view that the current rules on the use of force are not so clear and that they do not clearly take account of the concerns I have just mentioned. We have therefore set up a Committee on the Use of Power, which among other things is: Its task is to assess whether the rules are clear enough. It is the director of the Parliamentary Ombudsman, Jens Møller, who is the chairman of the committee. The Committee shall, inter alia: assess whether there is a need for new measures, as the questioner also asks precisely about, in other words, clearer rules on the use of force, as the social educators are calling for. I expect to have the committee's report this spring, and when the committee's report is available, I will consider the need for further action in this area. I would, of course, also like to call for political discussions in this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163121	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163122	I must say that the answer given by the Minister does not surprise me, of course. I am well aware that this committee has been set up, and indeed it is also on the basis of criticisms from the Ombudsman. The rules are simply too unclear. So to the question of whether we should not do something about it, I would say that I think it will be difficult not to do anything about it. I'm definitely awaiting this report. In fact, I had the impression, and I think it has also been in several places, that we should get the debriefing as one of the first in the new year. I understand that we are still away in January, but if, for example, the social educators clearly indicate what practical problems they are experiencing in everyday life in the work of children and young people placed in care, then I would really like the Minister to be able to give an indication here today, in this question, that we are getting the report by the end of February at the latest, that we can therefore have the negotiations and that we can therefore move forward in order to achieve this clarity. For the reality of the country's institutions, the reality of the many children who are placed outside the home, and indeed the reality of the many educators who work with relations with children and work to create a good life and a good foundation for the children in the future, is that they are frustrated that the rules are apparently unclear, and perhaps in reality also frustrated by the whole confusion of concepts as to when they are really using force. So my first question to the Minister is this: could the Minister here under this question be more clear in relation to when we get the debriefing and when we can enter some real negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163324	In fact, I share their frustration and, by the way, other people's concern, because this is a deeply complex area, as Mrs Karen Ellemann also rightly says. The reason why I cannot make the exact date is that the Committee on Powers and Powers is an independent committee which is planning its own meetings. I know that they needed, precisely because it is a complicated area, just to have a little more time to dive into some different details. But what I can say is, it's coming this spring. And the reason why I cannot be very specific about a date is that I know that if it is further delayed, I am just called down here one more time by Mrs Karen Ellemann, and then I have to stand up for the fact that I promised something and have not been able to keep it. So, and for all fairness, I can say that it will be here this spring. And, of course, I look forward to seeing it and I see that the President has stood up for everything that Mrs Karen Ellemann has said about how important it is and that you need it are considerations with which I fully agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163441	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163442	However, when the Minister agrees, I also need to clarify the powers of the Minister. It is the Minister who is setting up such a working group. It is the Minister who provides the mandate, and hence also the agenda and time frame for such work to be clear. So, Minister, as Minister, you have the opportunity to say: I need this debriefing now, because this is important. I fully agree that the committee's participants are, of course, going seriously to the task, but if you also get a deadline and are told that now we need this report, then I have the expectation that the deadline that is given will be respected. And the deadline was familiar to me already at the beginning of the year and therefore not such a or a loose deadline during the spring that was under discussion. By the way, I've already seen the first winter hedges, so maybe it's already spring now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163543	I think it would be a real shame to use the model mentioned by Mrs Ellemann, in other words that I have to break in now, because we are already in January, rather than just waiting for the last of the committee. It would be such a pity when we talk about something so vital, something so important, so to derail the last thing that they may also need to get the last thing in place, and then whip it through and say it needs to be delivered right now. I have great faith that they will, of course, come and deliver a good material to me. Somewhere, it is completely futile to stand here and talk about whether it should be next month or next month again. I had been a little hoping, and I also hope that we will continue to agree that this is so important that we need to make this clear in detail so that we do not have to stand in two years' time and are about to examine it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163642	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163643	Well, let's talk a little bit about the substance. After all, the Minister can also give clear signals to the work of the committee as we currently have. What is the Minister's view of using the concept of force alone in the way we can, for example, read Peter Abel, the center manager of Hvidovre Municipality? It is actually illegal to go in and turn off a musical system in a young person's room, for example, if the music is completely fired up at 2 o'clock. 4.00 at night with the consequence that all other residents are awakened. What is the Minister's view that it is currently called the use of force?
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163734	I just think that precisely that example and, incidentally, many other similar examples clearly show that we have taken due care to have a study carried out on the whole area. I myself am a former social worker and have tried to face such situations myself. I've been working at a shelter where we worked with young people. And it is really difficult and there are areas where you have to take a look at your head and think: that cannot be right. It was precisely with all the reports in mind that we set up this committee. It was to examine it and for that committee to make recommendations. I can't wait to read them because the time is right for that. It's gonna be screaming from around here. I also hear that we need to look at it, and so do we.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163825	We thank the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs and thank Mrs Karen Ellemann, because we have finished Question 14. And that means that Question Time is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150121163838	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, January 22, 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
