ParlaMint-DK_20150430100000	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Inger Støjberg (V), Maja Panduro (S), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Camilla Hersom (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA), Mai Mercado (KF), Uffe Elbæk (ALT), Johan Lund Olsen (IA), Doris Jakobsen(SIU), Edmund Joensen (SP) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF): Enquiry no. F 41 on the domestic and foreign policy situation. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende. dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100038	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100106	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 44 by Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (V), Thomas Jensen (S), Hans Kristian Skibby (DF), Lone Loklindt (RV), Steen Gade (SF) and Lars Barfoed (KF), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 92 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and KF), against 13 (EL and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V-44 adopted. After that, the draft adopted by the Committee of the Regions No 1 was adopted. V 43 of Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100226	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 42 by Jacob Jensen (V), René Christensen (DF), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Lars Barfoed (KF), and a vote can be taken now. Has everyone found their legs? Then we shall conclude the vote. in favour of 49 (V, DF, LA and KF), against 58 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected and that concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100337	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate on the amendment. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100400	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (V, S, RV, SF, LA and KF)? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100413	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case either. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100420	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 82 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), against 26 (DF, EL and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100453	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100523	I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 9 (LA and KF), against 96 (V, S, DF, RV, SF and EL), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100600	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100643	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100711	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at the amendments. 1-11 outside the report by the Minister for Industry and Growth as adopted. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100756	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430100815	This time, the Liberal Alliance seems to want to phase out the holiday money system altogether. In fact, at the request of the Liberal Alliance back in spring 2010, Parliament had a debate on the future of the holiday law. At that time a broad majority in the Folketing agreed that the purpose of the holiday law is to protect the safety and health of employees and that it is therefore important that employees take holidays for their holiday money. At that time it was agreed that the holiday law provides satisfactory protection for workers. Denmark's international obligations, economic considerations and the balance of the collective agreement system make it difficult to change the fundamentals of the principles of the holiday law. Denmark is actually obliged to comply with the international rules, which are also about holidays. Those rules set a limit on how much we can change the holiday law at national level. There are, for example: the following restrictions: Agreement on the waiver of leave is invalid; that is to say, you have to take your leave; the employee is entitled to four weeks' paid leave per year; and the holiday allowance may not be paid directly to the employee unless the employment relationship ceases. For this reason alone, it is not possible to pay the holiday money together with the salary, so the Liberal Alliance's proposal is in fact contrary to the international obligations of Denmark. In addition, I would like to make it clear that it is crucial for the government that we have a holiday money system which is guarding the opportunities for Danish employees and also their right to take holidays. It is a basic condition for paying your earned holiday money that you actually take your holiday. The main rule is that holiday money is lost to employees if they do not take a holiday during the holiday year. Instead, the holiday money is mainly allocated to the Labour Market Holiday Fund and perhaps also to some private funds. It then ensures, on the other hand, that employees are encouraged to take holidays during the holiday year. It also ensures that the employer cannot make any money out of the fact that the employee is not taking his or her vacation. In some cases, however, there is the possibility of receiving a holiday allowance without taking a holiday, for example, if the employee has been prevented from taking a holiday because of illness or maternity up to the end of the holiday period or up to the end of the year. Unclaimed holiday allowances may also be paid at the end of the holiday year if the holiday allowance relates either to the fifth week of leave or if it has ceased employment. In addition, the Danish holiday law is to a large extent an integral part of collective agreements and thus also part of the balance between the social partners. The holiday area is characterised by a long tradition that the social partners jointly find solutions for the benefit of both employees and employers. I believe that the result of the Liberal Alliance's proposal could be that hard-working people do not have a holiday at all and thus suffer even more quickly. This is not consistent with the fact that we are at the same time demanding that employees stay longer and longer in the labour market. Society therefore also has an important interest in actually having a holiday. On the other hand, the government would like to see ongoing opportunities to make the holiday law more flexible. I would like to take this opportunity to mention the new system called Holiday Money Information, which will be operational here from 1 May 2015. Holiday money info is a portal which now allows employees to have a comprehensive overview of their savings in holiday allowances. Here, too, you can ask for your holiday money. So many of the points raised by the Liberal Alliance along the way have actually been accepted, and I think that is sensible, so I hardly have to say in conclusion that the government cannot support the Liberal Alliance's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101203	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101207	I just want to hear from the Minister how it can be a protection for the employee that you risk losing the fruit of your work by simply not getting your own money paid out because you have forgotten to ask for it to be paid out. How can this protect the employee? How can it be acceptable for a Social Democrat to have an employee go to work, sell his labour to an employer, but lose the money he has earned?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101246	As my reply to the motion for a resolution made very clear, all in all I think we have a good system and there is a great deal of scope for getting that money. We have made it easier, we have made it clearer. But it is also quite clear that we want people to take a holiday. This is what we want for many different reasons, which I also mentioned in my speech here. Finally, I would like to say to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that as a minister you meet many worried people, and you meet many people who have things they want to debate, but I hardly remember when I last met someone who thought that the holiday money system was something that was unmanageable and unthinkable. This is not the top of the agenda I meet with ordinary people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101323	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101325	We may meet some different people. But the Minister did not answer my question. How can it be acceptable, as a Social Democrat, whether or not the Minister thinks it is a single system, and that it is easy for an employee who has sold his labour to an employer to miss the fruit of his work, namely the money he gets to go to work, to sell his labour? How can it be acceptable for this situation to arise at all? Can the Minister not see that this is a problem and that it is an injustice?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101405	I just want to say that, as I said in my speech, there are so many safeguards along the way here that you have plenty of opportunities as an employee to be active in relation to this one. And, as I also said in the speech, I am very concerned that we have a system which also animates that you get your vacation. I think that is good for all parties, including the employees, whom Joachim B.. Olsen seems to care so much about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101431	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101445	Thank you. The motion for a resolution raises a recurring problem, namely that not all employees are paid their holiday money and that all employees are thereby also deprived of interest. In the motion for a resolution, Liberal Alliance notes that holiday money is part of the wage and proposes that it be paid on a regular basis by the employer together with the salary, so that the interest is paid to the employee himself. The current holiday money system has worked for many years, and it is an integral part of the Danish holiday law. Nevertheless, not all employees are paid holiday allowances. This is certainly not satisfactory and it would suggest that we could look at the possibilities of improving this holiday money system so that all employees would receive their own earned money. However, a proposal for a permanent payment of the holiday allowance to employees is one that I consider to be contrary to the EU Working Time Directive and to the practice of the courts, because according to the case law of the European Court of Justice, the holiday allowance cannot be paid together with the salary and the employee must receive his or her normal salary when the employee is taking his or her holiday. So if we are to modernise the ability of employees to have their own paid holiday money paid in an easy way, we need to clarify how this can be done while complying with the EU's working time directive, and this is not the case with this resolution. However, we would very much like to see this clarified in order to ensure that all employees, i.e. the individual employees, receive their own paid holiday money while complying with the EU Working Time Directive. Then, of course, it is also a challenge for companies today, with the current holiday money system, to have a not insignificant contribution to their liquidity, and we must also take that into account when and if we change the holiday money system. So we think that we should think about a solution and work on a solution that ensures that the individual employee gets his own holiday money paid out, and maybe that could happen and I say perhaps because I think it requires a good job through an automatic payout. In other words, if you have not raised your holiday money after a certain period, this could perhaps be done by means of an automatic payment, so that we ensured that all employees were paid their own holiday money. But that is not what this proposal is all about, and on that basis the Left cannot support the specific motion for a resolution. However, we would like to look at how to ensure that the individual employee receives his or her own holiday money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101834	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101837	We would like to be allowed to sign for that by the Liberal Alliance. I think it must be the case, even when you are liberal, that when someone goes out and earns some money as an employee does, it is an injustice that that salary can be seized. It is also quite absurd to ask for your own money to be paid out; it seems absurd to a liberal. But I hear that the Left would like to take part in looking at how we can then make sure that employees get the money they have actually earned by going to work and which is rightfully their property, even though the Left cannot support the concrete proposal. But that is something to be looked at in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430101933	Yes, because we can see that not all employees are paid holiday allowances. We in the Left are concerned that you also have the money you have earned, regardless of whether it is the payrolls per person. We have to make sure that this is the case, or it is your own holiday money, to take a vacation for that, and that is something we must ensure. And you can see quite calmly that we are not entirely in line with the current holiday money system. So the art is to modernise this holiday money system and ensure that all employees actually get their own money, and there I just mention it as a thought that it might happen through an automatic payout if you have not raised your holiday money after a period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102027	No more from Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen? Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102037	As the labour market rapporteur, you are clearly faced with having an opinion on many things, and it is really only the imagination that limits the ingenuity of issues and themes. I shall not be able to say whether it is the thoughts of the coming summer holiday that have inspired the motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance to amend the holiday law, but I can already tell you that the Socialists do not support the proposal. For this resolution is basically about abolishing the holiday money system. For the Social Democrats, it is important for an employee in Denmark to take a holiday, and it is not only a matter of dancing on the beach, but also of central health concerns. This is ensured by the Act on Holidays and by a very long tradition that the social partners jointly find solutions that benefit both employees and employers. Today we have a holiday money system which, on the one hand, encourages Danish employees to take their holidays during holiday periods and, on the other hand, ensures that it is not possible for employers to make money from the fact that their employees are not on holiday. These are two pillars of the rules that will be lost if this resolution is adopted. In addition, the proposal is directly contrary to Denmark's international obligations, which clearly state that holiday allowances may not be paid directly to the employee unless the working conditions stop. But the most important thing is perhaps the consideration of the Danish labour market model. We have a long tradition in Denmark that the social partners jointly agree a number of conditions on the Danish labour market. This is particularly true in the field of holidays. This ensures that the rules are beneficial to both employers and workers, without interfering with Cristiansborg policy. It is a good labour market model in general and it is a good labour market model in the field of holidays. It is the position of the Social Democrats to stand firm on that model. Having said all that, it is of course important that the rules on the payment of holiday money also comply with the political intentions of the scheme, which is why it is also the view of the Socialists that the rules should be constantly monitored and that they should be considered whether they can be better done in favour of both employees and employers in a way that does not compromise with the Danish model. This motion for a resolution does not meet those requirements in any way. Here we are only at risk of the employees not having a well-deserved holiday, which is neither for the benefit of employees, employers or Danish society, and therefore the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102316	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102320	Thank you. I agree with many of the arguments, but I would like to hear the Socialist rapporteur say what we are doing in the first year. We really have problems in the first year, when many do not have any holiday money. What do we do there? How do we solve this problem, not to take account of the European Union, but to take account of Danish workers who are going to take holidays in the first year?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102344	After all, this is a problem that has been there since we were given the holiday law. I also remember that when I entered the labour market, the first year there was no holiday money for holidays. Of course, you have the right to vacation, and I think you should hold on to that. There is just no money for that period, and that may at least be a problem for some, in that you need money to cover the fixed costs, even if it is during a holiday period. I don't have an answer to sir. Christian Juhl's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102415	That's it? Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102420	One could discuss the paternalism of making sure by the authorities that people are taking their holidays as if it is something that adult people cannot find out for themselves. But we can have that discussion later. I would just like to hear how the rapporteur, as a Socialist, feels about Danish employees selling their labour to employers, and then, through a bureaucratic system, they are not asked to have their own money paid out, thereby losing the fruit of their efforts in the labour market, namely the wage they have earned by selling their labour. How can this be a system that protects employees? And how can it even be acceptable for an employee to end up in the situation of losing the money he has earned by selling his labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102512	First of all, I am very comfortable with being a socialist. That is what the rapporteur asked. Yes, that is what the rapporteur asked. In relation to the second part, I think you should look at what the holiday law does. The Vacation Act ensures that all employees in Denmark have the right to take a holiday and that they also have the right to have their money. There is then a procedure to get the money paid out, where you have to make sure that people actually take a vacation before they can get the money, except for some very small amounts. I think that's really nice. I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that there are also some considerations, for example. health. There is a reason why you have to have the opportunity to take a holiday: you have to have the opportunity to relax. And I think, for example, that even if it is... is not hard physical work to be a parliamentary politician, it is very nice, for example. to have the right to vacation as a politician as well. It makes very good sense that you have the opportunity to relax in relation to the work you do and to be with, for example. family and friends during a vacation period. We have no desire to deprive people of that right in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102627	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102629	It's a fantastic spin to make it sound like we don't mind people taking a vacation. We think it's nice that people take a vacation. We think it is fine that employers and employees agree and negotiate on how long holidays you should have and such fine, super, good. What this is about, and what we are discussing here, is that you can lose money you have earned by selling your labour to an employer. What I asked was: how does the rapporteur, as a Socialist, feel about employees losing the money they have earned by selling their labour? It's their own property. That you have a paternal system that makes them ask for their own money to be paid out, we think we are completely crazy. Will we not work to ensure that employees receive the money they have earned so that they cannot lose them? It should surely be something that a Social Democrat such as the rapporteur should think was unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102731	Thank you to the President-in-Office for allowing me to reply. I think I answered that very clearly before. In other words, the fact that working people in Denmark have the right to take a holiday and also have the right to receive a holiday allowance during the period during which they take a holiday, we stand firm. The only thing there is is then a requirement that you can make it probable that you are taking a holiday or have taken a vacation to get the money. I think that is only fair to ensure that holidays are held. What is meant by the vacation law, which is precisely that of taking a vacation, is also what is behind it. As I said, when it comes to small amounts, you can get the money paid out if you just write an application. In the case of larger amounts, for example, one must also face up to. It is possible for your employer to make it possible for you to actually take a vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102815	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430102824	Thank you, President. Well, this proposal is not a new one. I think it is three or four times in the time I have been in the Folketing that we have dealt with the problem of holiday money. And under the government of the VK, the Danish People's Party also made it clear that an amount could be paid; if the excess amount remaining was below a certain limit, it was paid out per year. automatic. We also got through the fact that a slightly larger amount of money could write a statement that you were on holiday without the employer having to sign it. So it was a step in the right direction. For the Danish People's Party, of course, is in favour of people having the money they have earned, and we would like to see when you came to the end of the holiday year and then took a vacation, the money was paid out per year. automatic. We then ran into some problems with the European Union: apparently we were not allowed to do so. We don't really care about that, but the government wasn't then. We would like to come to a system where it is said that the money belongs, of course, to the one who has earned it and that the money must be paid out when we come to the end of the holiday year. The problem with this proposal at least as I see it is that if the money goes into people's account, we know that if there is a little economic crisis then the banks are quick to scrape them in, and then people don't have the money to take a vacation for when they have to take a vacation. For holiday money, as has been said, is intended to take time off from work for, in other words, to pay the fixed costs you have. And if there's something in surplus, you can use the money for whatever you want. But they are intended to pay the fixed costs during the holiday period. Then we know that there is a big difference between monthly or hourly pay, because monthly pay is paid monthly, and when they take a holiday, they get 11⁄2%. In addition, to reach the 121⁄2 percentage of holiday money. If we could reach a system where we all got them paid out at the end of the year, the Danish People's Party would like to participate in it, but we cannot be in favour of the proposal here. We want to ensure that people get the money they have earned and that they also have it when they have to take a holiday, because there is a big difference, depending on what income they have. If you are a regular hourly or low-paid person, you do not have such a large profit, but if you are highly paid, you can easily set aside a lot of money yourself. There are several problems in that game. However, if we can find out a scheme in which, when we reach the end of the year, the money will be paid out per year, as the rapporteur of the Left also said. automatic, then it is quite fine for the Danish People's Party. That is what we have been working on for a long time, but we were just slowed down by some EU rules. Whether that can change or not, I can't say. However, we cannot support the proposal as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430103122	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430103139	Thank you. I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on this proposal for having tabled this motion for a resolution. I think this is an important debate, and I also think that it is worth dwelling on some of the shortcomings or disadvantages of the current system. It could be in relation to guardianship or to whom the interest should be due. I think that is quite obvious. I also think that, when that debate is raised, it reminds us why we have that system and one is forced to argue for it if one is in favour of it. What is my key point is that there are so many advantages to the holiday money system that we have that the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. First of all, it can be said that the holiday money system helps to guarantee the basic rights and health of the employee. That is what the system takes care of, although it is not certain that the Liberal Alliance subscribes to the fact that systems that we have built together can care for the individual. Nevertheless, the system we now have helps to protect workers' rights and ensure that they are given a holiday. It can also be said, to put it more nationalistally, which I know the rapporteur also likes to use as an argument, that the best and most important production factor for employees is working capital, that is, the capacity of the individual to work. And this capital will be heavily written down if an employee doesn't have a vacation. That is the main argument. The second is, and I think this is also important to bear in mind, that when this system is appreciated in the broadest sense by the social partners, it is a very clear signal to us that this is something that we, as politicians, should support when we otherwise support the Danish model. Then, in relation to the issue of the unenforced holiday money, we can say that it should in principle be better; in the ideal of all worlds that problem should not be there. But we are talking about the fact that it is a 25% share that does not raise holiday money. So if, in addition to the fundamental arguments, we also have to bring in the proportionality factor here, I think we have a system which we can be familiar with. There's nothing to be ashamed of. Then there is the paternalism: Is it paternal? You can argue for that. In the Radical Left we do not want unnecessary paternalism, but I think it is actually a necessary evil here. So, overall, the Radical Left can support the holiday money system, but not the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430103518	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430103535	Many people benefit from the fact that the current system of holiday money ensures that the money is present when the holiday is to be held. With the proposal of the Liberal Alliance, there are quite a few people who will be left without a penny to take a holiday for when they get a holiday, and that is simply because it will be too tempting for a number of people to spend the money continuously, not least if you have a poor economy. It is a temptation that one can easily understand. But more broadly speaking, the truth is that people are very different, and therefore the ability of individual people to save is very different. I think it would be very bad if a large group of citizens were to arrive at their holidays and then not have a penny to hold it for. In particular, I would like to point out that in Danish society a great many employees are still absent who are not white-collar workers, and if they are going to spend their holiday money during the year, they will simply have no money to pay rent while they are on holiday, because non-members do not receive a penny in wages during the holiday, not a penny, but they will then receive a higher amount of holiday money. So there may simply be some who are put out of their apartment because they have not kept the holiday money until the holiday is to be held and therefore it is a bad system. Approx. 75% of all holiday allowances in Denmark are paid through the so-called holiday card schemes. Vacation card schemes have been agreed in collective bargaining with trade unions and have been approved by the State. The holiday card scheme is a kind of guarantee scheme administered by employers' associations, which means that the individual employer has the interest rate advantage by keeping the money in the company until the holiday is taken. On the other hand, the employers' association guarantees that the holiday money is always available when the holiday is to be taken. This increases the liquidity of Danish private companies by about 12 billion. kr. a year, the Danish Employers' Association, which I have spoken to. If employers were to borrow this money from the bank, according to the employers' association, it would cost private companies between 500 million. kr. and 1 billion. kr. a year. I am very surprised that the Liberal Alliance is attacking business in this way by removing an advantage of between 0.5 billion. kr. and 1 billion. kr. per year for enterprises. I thought that the Liberal Alliance as a Saxo Bank spree was a business-friendly party, but one can then make it clear in this Chamber that the Liberal Alliance is not. As far as the SF is concerned, it is an even more central aspect that, if the current system, agreed in the collective bargaining process, is to be removed, it is to be expected that employers will make demands in the next collective bargaining negotiations, which will bring them back the billion kroner demanded by the Liberal Alliance from employers. And that can be done, for example. In contrast, at the next collective bargaining procedure, employers will require employees to reduce wages, or in the industrial sector, where the agreement states that they are entitled to two weeks of paid training per year, it can be imagined that employers will demand that this right be abolished in return for the disappearance of the holiday money system. With the kind of expectable demands from employers which lead to deterioration in other areas, employees are therefore equal and, therefore, we cannot see from the SF that the Liberal Alliance's proposal is a step forward. The proposal is further proof that the liberalist theories do not stand up in practice and therefore the SF will vote against the proposal. And I would like to conclude by saying that we would like to take part in efforts to ensure that more employees raise their holiday money. It is possible to find out with the help of various tools, but it must be an absolute condition that the holiday is also taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430103950	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430103956	The argument that you have to have this system, because it may be that some people forget to put money aside for their holidays, is a strange argument. Firstly, it is based on a deep mistrust of the citizens. I even think that the rapporteur said something about the fact that those who earn a lot of money may be able to find out, but those who do not make that much money will not be able to find out. A strange human sight, SF shows there. One could then argue why we should not make sure that the citizens put money aside for Christmas or for their birthday or for all kinds of other events where you need a little more money than you normally have. I don't know if it's some thoughts you play with in the SF. So this care that the SF takes from the Communists is touching. It is the DA, that is to say the employers, whom we want to protect here, and then we are accused of not being professionally friendly. We are a liberal party. This means that we want to protect people's property, and this money is not the property of employers. After all, it is not money they have earned, it is money that employees have earned, and it is their interest that they get. We have no objection to business being allowed to keep more of the money they earn themselves, but we do not think it is a good idea that they should be allowed to keep money that employees have earned, because that is their money, and it is incomprehensible that a socialist party can accept that employees have their wages seized.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104134	Short remarks are first in 1 minute and then they are at 1⁄2 minute. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104139	First of all, I would like to say to those who were not allowed to know their Danish history that the SF has sprung from the Communists in protest against the Communist Party. So we are not in any way a descendant of any Communist Party, on the contrary. The SFs could not accept the way in which the Communist Party in Denmark was driving and that the Soviets were being supported. It's still gone our opinion. As far as the economy is concerned, what I said was that we could understand that if you have a poor economy, it may be tempting if you have paid your holiday money, to spend it before the holiday is taken. It is also true that this can be a great temptation. I believe, as I have said, that many people benefit from a guarantee that the money will be available for the holidays. 99% of all holiday money in Denmark is being paid out, and I do not understand at all that the Liberal Alliance is out on a voyage here, where they attack the Danish business community and harm them with a minus of between 500 million. kr. and 1 billion. kr. a year. This is incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104249	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104251	This isn't about hurting anyone. It's about protecting someone. It is about some people who have gone to work and made some money, and then you have a paternal system that makes them have to ask for their own money. And those who forget it because they have to go through a bureaucratic system will then have their money seized. What will the rapporteur say to those people who have gone to work and who are not now getting that money? That happens, and I think it is a very important principle that we do not get the money that we have earned. What is the message to them? Get a grip, huh? Go through the bureaucracy because you don't have the right to their money if you don't?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104334	The one percent of the holiday money that is not raised is in many cases small amounts, and that is probably because people do not think about them very strongly. In many cases it may also be the case that some employees, when they have to receive the holiday money, have in fact come on a public transfer income which means that if they receive the holiday money, it can be offset against their public support. That is also one of the reasons why there is a lot of money going back to the treasury of these unenforced holiday money. So I think that the Liberal Alliance, if you can use that expression here, is painting the hell on the wall, but we would like to be involved in some arrangements that highlight the possibility that, as an employee, you can raise your holiday money when the holiday is taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104422	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104437	When we have to make sure we have the opportunity to take a holiday, there are two things that need to be right. The first is the right to vacation, which we have in part in the holiday law and in part in a number of agreements which have extended the law on holidays. And the second is to have some money to take the holidays too. We have three kinds of holiday money, as I see it. We have the white-collar workers who get paid on vacation. Then we have ordinary workers who get holiday money from saved holidays. And then we have the third option, that we have something called holiday allowance. This means that if you have spent the previous year on unemployment benefit, you can also receive holiday allowance the following year or if you are on unemployment benefit, you can receive holiday allowance and take your holiday there. It's a good combination, but not a combination without holes. But there are some advantages of the current system that the Liberal Alliance has to answer questions about before they skip them off by making this model. That is why it is important that, if we are to discuss this in a nuanced way, we also have to answer those questions. The Vacation Act is a legal guarantee for the Danish employees, namely their right to take a holiday and receive a salary during the holiday. If you remove the holiday money as legal claims, the only ones who will benefit from it are the employers, in particular the employers who cheat, each wage earner must make claims to his employer through his trade union or, if you are not in a trade union, through civil law. In my opinion, the law is one of the world's best in the sense that it prevents employers from cheating on holiday money because they have to be paid out on a quarterly basis. There is a public system which ensures that they are paid and if they are not paid, a case will be brought against the employer. The holiday money ensures that all wage-earners can afford to take a holiday, not because it is paternal, but because the money is found in a savings that is legally guaranteed. And as I said before, we're sure to get the money in. I have also met families who have been wearing their hair in the mailbox because they had no more money left because they had traded with the employer. It has been a great pleasure to drive out to the same employer and say. You cheated on the holiday money, and I'd like it back, you might say. I'd like them officially. There are a number of employers who are then caught up and have had to pay holiday money twice because they have not followed the legislation. That is their problem, and we have put it in place that way. We do not share the Liberal Alliance's view that the state is paternalistic in securing holiday money, on the contrary. If the holiday money system is abolished and the money instead becomes part of the salary, this alone will result in a reduction in wages and the weakest workers being cheated. However, we believe that unspent holiday money should be possible after the end of the holiday year, and that holiday money should not be offset against other social benefits. This does not mean the abolition of holiday money, but the strengthening of workers' rights in the law, and we would like to take part in that. If you could get into that situation, we think it would be really, really good to get in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104810	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430104825	On the conservative side, we are basically in agreement with the Liberal Alliance that the current holiday money system is both bureaucratic and patronising. We also believe that there is a problem with these people who end up not having their own money paid out. This also makes the system quite unreasonable. In addition, as has also been mentioned before, there is the problem of the first year in which no holiday money has been earned. One can say that the whole intention like falls to the ground in the first year. So this isn't an ideal system. We do not see, unfortunately, that in this motion for a resolution there are the stones shown on how to solve that knot. We also believe that, in this matter, as I usually say in virtually all the discussions we have in this area, in the Assembly, the social partners should play a key role if they are not to play it alone. That is what we think here too. It would be appropriate for the social partners to play a key role in how we could consider setting up a better holiday system. There are, among other things: The problem is that today we have both hourly and white collar employees. In other words, we have some who do not actually get their money paid in advance or have them set aside, but are paid during the holiday. So for them, you might say, it's sort of solved. Then there are some individual hourly wage earners who receive their holiday money on top of the salary on an ongoing basis, but it is also only a very small group. And then there are all the others who have this somewhat paternal system, which we would actually like at some point to entice the social partners to enter into a thorough discussion on how to do something better. We do not have the solution to that, and we do not necessarily see that the Liberal Alliance has here either. In addition, we can see that there are also some EU-law issues that need to be examined a little thoroughly if we are to go further on this track. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430105058	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430105118	In Denmark we have a system in which we seize a very large proportion of wages in income tax. You can have different views about this, but you choose to seize 12.5% on top of it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament's role in this debate is to make sure that people's salaries are paid in order to ensure that they are now also on holiday is completely insane. People are worried about people who can't figure out how to save up for vacation, but how many are they really about? When the few have problems in managing their finances, one should not demand forced savings for everyone. Then, on the basis of the same logic, one could demand government compulsory savings for rent, for Christmas gifts or perhaps for all kinds of other necessities. Today we have an entirely bizarre system in which employees have to stand with their hats in their hands to gain access to their own money. Either you have to ask the employer to confirm that you are going to take a holiday and ask for your money, or after the holiday year you can apply for access to your own salary if you have either been on holiday or have been prevented from keeping it. That system is a crazy guardianship. The aim of the legislation is to ensure that people take 5 weeks' holiday. Is there anyone who can rationally justify that all people in Denmark need 5 weeks' holiday? If you are in doubt that the law is indeed an expression of paternalism, you can consult the legislative text. The Vacation Act says: "Of the holiday, at least 15 days must be given in context (main holiday). The main holiday is to be held between 1 May and 30 September (the holiday period). If the employee has earned less than 15 days' holiday, the entire earned holiday is the main holiday. It gets comical when you read on: • An employee who is engaged in outdoor plant breeding must have at least 10 days in conjunction with the holiday period. In addition, at least 5 days must be given between 1 May and 31 October. ▪ What, frankly, is the good argument for Christiansborg to regulate the holiday period for people working with outdoor plant breeding? There is no good argument for this in the same way as there are no good arguments for people to spend 15 days of continuous holiday in the summer period. If someone prefers to take vacation at other times, they must of course find out with their employer, not with the politicians in here. The success of the present holiday system is due to an unholy alliance between the employers' associations, the state and the trade unions. In the case of ordinary employees, on average they are cheated on the interest rates which ought to be due to them. After all, the holiday money is part of the salary. And especially are those who do not get the right paperwork so that they can get paid the missing part of their salary. If it is forgotten, or if you do not have five weeks' holiday, then suddenly you are not entitled to the money you have saved and earned yourself. It is simply theft from ordinary employees. The employers' associations, the state and the trade unions earn a lot of money on this. If a collective agreement is drawn up, companies can avoid the rules that apply to the holiday account. For companies without collective agreement, employees' savings pay must be paid on a regular basis to the Holiday Account. As a member of e.g. A collective agreement avoids the need to pay holiday allowances on an ongoing basis. It provides a liquidity advantage. That is a nice way of saying that employers are snatching interest income. DI itself states that a conservative estimate of the savings for the companies is that they are approx. 0.26% of the wages and salaries. The price of being a member of DI is, by chance, 0.26%. of the wages and salaries. It is, of course, a fun coincidence that many employees pay exactly for companies being able to join the employers' organisations, for their holiday money, and it is a fun coincidence that the same organisations are in favour of the current holiday money system. In relation to the state, things are even clearer. The State has granted itself a large part of the interest on holiday money, which previously belonged to the Labour Market Holiday Fund, and this is not insignificant in structural terms when the total amount of holiday money is as large as it is. At the same time, in the last financial year 2013, more than 50 million were taken. kr. directly in the profit and loss account. This was while the 2014 Finance Act decided to include 280 million. kr. of the own funds of the Labour Market Holiday Fund. It's shameful. On the sidelines, the trade unions are passively watching while their members' salaries are being eroded. The trade unions are more busy ensuring that all employees receive exactly five weeks' leave than ensuring that they receive their entire salary together with the interest rate of that salary. It's a clear failure. An increasingly smaller proportion of the profits from this whole circus goes to the Labour Market Holiday Fund. This is intended to support holiday stays for children and families in need. It seems to most people as a sympathetic purpose, but whether it is still worth supporting must always be based on a political priority that must compete with all the other good purposes for which money is intended. But it is unsympathetic to allow it to finance in the holiday money system as an unfair special tax on the diligent and on those who have forgotten to ask for their own money to be paid out. If we want to continue to ensure that people take holidays at the times and in the amounts prescribed by Christiansborg, we should at least make sure that there is a dispute with the present system, which ensures that neither the State nor the employers give themselves a chunk of the money which must in every way belong to the employees. Other things are to care for special interests without thinking of ordinary justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430105713	There are three brief comments. First, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430105717	I think that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, with his rhetoric, is getting something up when he uses expressions such as seizure, forced saving, the hat in his hand and other expressions. I would just like to say that this also suggests that the rapporteur has not put his feet on the labour market so much. Because if he had been out there, he would also be aware that this is about the rights of those who work, who have then been defended and agreed from the outset between the trade union and the employer, and that the trade unions have ensured that there are some holiday money available, so employers say: OK, we have them, we have them standing. The organisations then guarantee that the money is actually available, even if for example. the employer goes bankrupt or something else. That is why it has been distributed in this way. This is not about saving or confiscating, but about ensuring that the money is available to the people working on the Danish labour market, and I cannot imagine that the rapporteur thinks this is a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430105823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430105824	But the money is not necessarily available. They are just not available if you forget to apply for your own money. Then they're not available. Interest income, which would otherwise be received if you had your own money, is not available either. It's fine, and I think I've said it several times in this debate that employees and employers agree holidays. They can make all sorts of agreements with each other about how the money should be paid out, etc. etc. Fine! As a Liberal, I do not think we should interfere. What we need to get involved in is the legislation we have that allows someone to seize other people's wages, including interest on that salary. That's a problem. It should also be a problem for a social democrat, and it is incomprehensible that it is not. But that is one of those signs that the Socialists are actually more interested in having a good relationship with their trade unions, which in one way or another supports them; I know that the rapporteur is also supported by a union in the election campaign and gets some money so that he can be re-elected. The people you get money from have an interest in this. But employees can never have an interest in the fact that they cannot get their own money paid out and that they can be put in the position at all that they cannot be paid out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430105939	Yes! Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430105941	I said in my rapporteur's speech that there are things you can look at. Personally, I also think that, as the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur says, it would be fair to look at the question of interest rates on that money at some point if we are to see it here in the context. So, the rapporteur says that you cannot get your holiday money. It will be very interesting to find out what in the world is behind it. I think it was the SF's rapporteur who mentioned that it is something of less than 1%. of the holiday allowance which is not paid. Nobody else has a problem with this. We are talking about small sums, either because it is students who have been working or other things. In the big labour market, this works really, really well: it ensures that people have the right to vacation, that they take holidays, and that they also have the money to take their holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110036	It's small sums, it's said. But that's not what this is about. This is a matter of principle. If it had been in all sorts of other contexts where it had not just benefited the trade unions, the rapporteur would have been right up in the red field; if it were so that only a tiny part of employees' wages could be seized by someone, one would have been right up in the red field. There is no doubt about that. That is why, as I said before, this is an expression of the social democracy's concern to make trade unions happy rather than to make employees happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110111	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110113	As I said in my speech, we believe in the SF that there will be a number of disadvantages if the holiday money system is abolished, as proposed by the Liberal Alliance. But to stick to one aspect, I would say that if this is abolished, there will certainly be a counterclaim from the employers' side in collective bargaining, for example, that employees should instead go down in wages if employers no longer have the interest benefit of the holiday money, or that employers under the industrial agreement, where they are entitled to two weeks' training annually paid by the employer, would say that this right must be cut or removed because there has to be a balance in these things. In this way, it can be said that what has been agreed on holiday money in terms of holiday card arrangements is a negotiation between employers and trade unions, and my question to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is: how does the Liberal Alliance itself think that the world would have gone forward if it were instead to be a reduction in wages for employees or that some educational rights in the agreement were dropped?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110224	Why should this lead to a reduction in wages? Today, there's a pay cut in you having your interest seized. Today it is the interest rates of employees that employers have and can make use of. What had to happen if we said that they had to find out for themselves is not to know, but to claim that it would lead to a reduction in wages, there is no argument, because the wage paid to employees today is an expression of the productivity they have. They can't get less than that over time. They can't get more than that over time either. So to claim that, overall, it will lead to a wage cut is nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110309	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110312	I certainly do not think it is because employers have a total calculation that they must have to go up. For them, it would be an extra cost that came out of it. But I'd like to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen about something else. Is it really the case that the Liberal Alliance is so super liberal that it is thought that the individual should decide for himself whether or not to take the holiday, that is to say, that one can avoid the recreational purpose of the holiday and actually get the money paid out without taking a holiday? Then we have a really big problem for many people in Danish society, if that is what the Liberal Alliance really means.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110353	Well, I don't have a problem saying that. Of course, as a starting point, we think that people should decide for themselves. Adult people have to decide for themselves whether they want to take a holiday or whether they want to work. I think that should be the starting point. I know that the SF has such faith that it cannot be managed by people, but we do believe that they can also do so because we have a changing labour market. After all, we do not have such a labour market where everyone is today in an industrial place and has a hard and brutal job that was done in the old days. We have all sorts of different types of work: people work at home and it becomes much more freer. So why wouldn't people be able to find out for themselves? We have faith in people. SF doesn't have that. That's the difference between us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110428	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110432	I think that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has a strange paternal attitude towards workers in Denmark. What if they forget to withdraw their money? Tell me, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that the Danish workers are stupid? Of course they'll raise their money if they need it. But if they are in a situation where it will not change their economy, they may choose to administer it differently. It would therefore be a very good idea if the Liberal Alliance would make the effort to tell us: what kind of money is it that is not being raised? Who hasn't raised their money? We do not have a very good picture of this, but I think that I know that it is because it is those who are prevented from taking a holiday and who otherwise have an income instead. That is why I should like to ask: what kind of money is it that is not being raised? And are there no drawbacks at all in privatising the collection of holiday money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110530	Do we think the employees are stupid? No, that's exactly what we don't think. We think they can manage these things themselves. In fact, we think they can do that themselves. We are actually confident that adult people can manage the salary they have earned by going to work. So no, we don't think so. This is clearly the second thing that is the case: the authorities and organisations believe that they are stupid. We have to have this system, because imagine if they don't save up for their holidays; we have to protect them from themselves! That is the intention. We think that's patronage. It's not treating adults like adults. And we think you should.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110619	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110622	I would just like to quote the rapporteur: what if they forget to apply for their money when they have not spent it? It is then paternalism and an undervaluation of the workers. The law is a protection law. This means that you have the right to spend the 3 weeks of your holiday during the main holiday period. You have the right to take a holiday under certain conditions. You don't have a duty to do that. You can choose it freely if you can agree with your employer. It is to protect workers from the arbitrariness of employers as to when the holiday will be taken. This is to limit employers' exclusive rights. That's what's in the law. That is a very sensible thing, because then the workers can choose whether the holiday should be taken during the main holiday period or at some other time, and they can negotiate for it. It is the same with the collection, but Mr. Joachim B. Olsen isn't on either. Is it not an advantage to have a collective collection and a State-guaranteed collection of the money rather than to privatise the collection for each employee?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110724	No, we do not think so, because if it were private, there could be all sorts of different solutions. All sorts of different solutions could arise. And the solutions that are good will be copied by others. That is what is good, because we are entering a time when the labour market is changing very much and very quickly. Many people are also trying to be involved in many different things during their working lives and thus have many different needs. That is why, in our view, it is better that agreements are made in the labour market. They can be diverse and they can be different because there are diversity and many different needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110803	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110830	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430110838	The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution will oblige the government to set up an ethics regime for social responsibility. The labelling scheme must be state-funded or state-supported and must be administered, for example. according to the same model as the eco-label Swan and the eco-label Flower, and work will also have to be done to create cooperation on the ethics label at the Nordic, European and so on global level. First of all, let me make it clear that the government attaches great importance to the spread of basic labour rights and sustainable production. Denmark also supports the appropriate initiatives aimed at this, both nationally and internationally, not least in the UN International Labour Organisation, the ILO, but also in the EU. In this context, we have welcomed the fact that Danish companies in the international context are generally quite good at working with social responsibility. In fact, there are a number of Danish companies that have also joined the UN Global Compact, which is a private initiative under the auspices of the United Nations for corporate social responsibility. It is precisely intended to involve private companies in solving some of the global, social and environmental challenges. But when it comes to the ethics regime proposed in the motion for a resolution, the government is not convinced that this is the right way to go, perhaps on the contrary. First of all, the government sees a certain discrepancy in introducing a national ethics regime to address a global problem. It is probably a well-intentioned initiative, but it is hardly likely that a Danish one-off will easily be able to spread at international level. One of the reasons why the Global Compact has gained broad support and recognition from the business community is, of course, the global approach of the initiative to challenges in the whole area. Companies that have joined the UN Global Compact have thus used it as a competitive parameter also in the international market. In contrast, an undertaking would not be able to apply a national etiquette scheme in the same way as a competitive parameter on the international market. The government does not think it would be a good idea for us to go alone in such an important area. The proposal also mentions several existing labelling schemes, including: The eco-labels Swan and Flower. Of course, the government is in favour of them. Eco-label schemes at production level are relatively easy to quantify compared to working conditions and employment conditions. It should not, of course, stop us from thinking new things and also seek coherence between the environment and social responsibility. However, it is also important that we set realistic and verifiable requirements in the labelling system. I do not have that part when it is proposed that a Danish etiquette secretariat should be able to make unannounced visits to affiliated companies in Denmark and abroad to ensure that they meet the criteria of the label. It seems to me to be quite a mouthful. In relation to the eco-labels mentioned, the Swan and the Flower, I would also like to point out that certain product groups already have requirements for working conditions in production. This is a development which the government would like to see further developed. Similarly, the government supports global standards for the environment and social responsibility, for example. in the textile industry, including where it may include a labelling system. In fact, this was also what my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Development, said only last week about the follow-up to Denmark's targeted efforts globally to avoid disasters such as the tragic incident at Rana Plaza in Bangladesh. So, against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111213	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111217	Thanks for the nice words... the words are at least nice in my opinion. But what is the reason why 1,100 dead textile workers do not mean the same and do not mean that we will allow consumers to opt out of such products as have been made under environmental and other conditions? What is the qualitative difference between workers' rights and environmental considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111250	You know, sometimes you can get a little discouraged when mr. Christian Juhl asks such a question and understands that I do not care about 1,100 dead textile workers in Bangladesh. It's an unfair composition. I'm actually trying to answer it properly and objectively. We want to support everything that can be done internationally in this area. When Mr. Christian Juhl goes up and defends his motion for a resolution, we may be able to get an answer to it, but for me, such labelling schemes are very much about credibility. That is what is crucial for consumers. And I ask this question: can it be done at the request of Denmark to create a global labelling system which also has credibility, where it has to answer for what is happening in the extreme corner, in Bangladesh, for example? That was the question that I asked very much in cash, which is why it is not fair to interpret it as if I do not care about 1,100 dead people in a tragic accident or a tragic accident, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111348	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111351	I am just trying to take the Minister at his word when it comes to doing everything that can be done. There are thousands of consumers in Denmark who, when we have carried out actions on the Rana Plaza accident, have asked: what can we do? Then what I'm saying is don't buy their shit. That is my answer to them. But they say, "How can you find out? ' Yeah, well, as a state, we can try to help them with that. In fact, I think we can make a labelling system, a positive labelling system that does not approve all sorts of junk in the world, but which only approves what we are sure we can say 'yes' to. Whether it is environmental considerations or whether it is labour rights, checks must be made. Then the labelling system must have a control system. So we might as well build something up here as we can build something up elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111439	That's exactly the last of it. And I'm sorry, sir. Christian Juhl, but it seems to me a bit naive to imagine that Denmark is able to give the guarantee that should be in relation to such labelling. Where it makes sense is exactly when we work together at global level, among other things. through what is happening under the auspices of the United Nations. And that is what I spent quite a lot of my time addressing in the speech here: that you will see Denmark at any time in general, I think, but at least the current government is fighting for proper, credible labelling arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111510	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111515	I understand that the Minister is warning against this, among others. the argument that there should not be a national initiative in this area, but an international one. Now I do not agree that a national initiative could not be taken, but now, I am starting from what the Minister of Employment says. So my question is: what initiatives does Denmark take and will Denmark take in an international context to promote the thinking behind this proposal from Enhedslisten? What initiatives will Denmark take in the EU? What initiatives will Denmark take at the UN?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111551	I also expressed what the Minister for Trade and Development has said about these things. I have tried to describe the international labelling systems and here the UN's Global Compact as one of the most important things. It is precisely to give support to the kind of things that are absolutely crucial; this is where Denmark can help to push and play a role, and we have done so, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111614	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111628	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating today, tabled by the Enhedslisten, concerns the creation of an ethics regime to tell the consumer whether the product has been produced in accordance with fundamental workers' rights and human rights, etc. More specifically, it is a question of the secretariat and the board that will operate under it here, among other things. to consider compliance with the Geneva Convention, the Declaration of Human Rights and the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, economic, social and cultural rights, the guidelines on human rights and professions; that recruitment has been voluntary; that there is a safe and healthy working environment; that there is no child labour; that there is freedom of association; that there is no excessive working hours; that there is no discrimination in employment; and that there is a wage guaranteeing an adequate standard of living. All of these requirements must be taken into account in all the managers of the production process, that is, from the raw material's supply and processing and later transport. In addition, it is stressed that it is both the producer and the subcontractors who have to meet these requirements. I have to say at the outset that we are dealing with a proper mouthful, and this is obviously a matter of all goods. At the same time, I have also noted that it must be financed by the Treasury, without any amount of money being set aside for it. We in the Left believe that it is important for consumers to have relevant information so that they can make choices according to their wishes and needs. Through their choices, consumers are actively influencing goods and services on the market, and we are constantly watching that. Already today there is a market for products that meet different ethical requirements, so consumers actually have an option today. There are examples of private brand schemes, for example what is known as the Max Havelaar scheme. We in the Left believe that an ethical labelling system should be driven by companies' involvement in cooperation with consumers. It is not for the State to be a taster of the ethical criteria to be emphasised. We should not create an apparatus of so-called taste judges to assess what good ethics are. Ethics, as you know, can be many things, and any real formula of what good ethics is, is not known to me. I think it should be left to the discretion of the individual consumer to decide what should be the most important emphasis on whether it is environmentally friendly, human rights, animal welfare or whatever we might talk about. So the Left does not want to contribute to the establishment of this system and, overall, the Left cannot support the scheme proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111913	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430111916	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen says that consumers are entitled to real information about the goods they find in stores and perhaps want to buy. Nevertheless, there should be no system to ensure that the area which is a huge problem is a huge global problem, namely that workers' rights are trampled underfoot, that workers die from poor working conditions, that workers are cheated so that the water drifts from them. There should not be a system that informs about it; it is taste judgment. Where does the Left limit when it is real information to consumers and when it is taste judgment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112007	I would very much like the consumer to be given the information which Mr. Christian Juhl is looking for him. I just don't think it's a relationship that the state should get involved in. We see companies trying to provide the consumer information in question, and it simply becomes a common element of competition, as in so many other areas, and we on the Left are fully satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112027	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112029	Does that mean that sir... Preben Bang Henriksen believes that we should leave it to those who sell the products to inform and not interfere with whether this is serious information now and not help to correct consumers in relation to the information they receive? In other words, it means that quality is irrelevant and that it is competition that must fully determine what information we get about our goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112059	No, we should not leave it to those who sell the products, we should leave it to those who buy the products. A normal market will be created in which the modern consumer will demand this information and, in this context, things will conform to the wishes of consumers. This isn't something the state has to take care of. There will be an incredible number of administrative problems, and there will have to be an incredible amount of resources allocated to the system that Enhedslisten is presenting here. It must, of course, be carried out in all countries and checked; there must be on-the-spot inspections and I, like the Minister, find it difficult to imagine how it could be carried out at all. I don't believe this is going to work in any way. It will be consumers themselves who will make demands on businesses, and that must be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112145	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Mette Reissmann as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112155	I would like to start by expressing my appreciation of the fact that the Enhedslisten raises this issue here in the Assembly. To fight for workers' rights both in Denmark and in the rest of the world is social democratic heartblood; it is a battle that we must always fight. In the past, major tragedies, particularly in the textile industry, have highlighted how these products we consume in the West are produced and what conditions the people who produce them are working under. It is not funny reading and it has unfortunately been shown that working conditions, especially in developing countries, are highly critical. Therefore, it is also relevant to discuss how we can get companies and producers to give their employees proper working conditions. And that is why, as early as 2013, we presented a CSR action plan focusing on social responsibility in both the private sector and consumers. The action plan contains some tools and principles, especially for Danish companies operating in new growth markets where human rights are often under pressure. In addition, in the wake of the tragedy in Bangladesh, where a textile factory collapsed, the government launched a series of additional measures to ensure more responsible production and working conditions during the production of these products. And that was among other things. initiatives such as CSR Abroad, increased focus on CSR under EU-trade agreements and a targeted collaboration with Dansk Erhverv. It is all initiatives that will make Danish as well as foreign companies take responsibility for working conditions and workers' rights, both in their own factories, with their subcontractors and in society where they place their production. I should also like to mention that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, among other things, is in fact one of them. As far back as 1999, when we were last in government, we had a labelling report that has highlighted this problem. We had the then business strategy, dk21, which resulted in the ethics database, which I had the great pleasure of being the leader of in the years of the existing one. So this is not the first time that the Socialists have, as it were, been involved in this issue. So the Socialists are very much in agreement with the Enhedslisten that we have a share of responsibility for ensuring proper conditions throughout the production chain. We just do not believe that the Enhedslisten's proposed ethics mark is the right solution to the problem, because in a modern consumer jungle, where there is already a host of different brands, there is only one thing that can confuse consumers further, and that is to get another mark. That is why, although consumers are generally happy with brands, we believe that this is not the right way to do it. We will always work for transparency and consumer information. These are necessary tools if consumers are to take co-responsibility precisely in the fight against poor working conditions. This, of course, requires you to know what you are buying if you, as a consumer, are to make a difference with your choice of consumption. Having said that, however, the criterion of social responsibility is already included in several of our eco-labellings. There are a number of tools that the Minister has mentioned some of those that allow companies to advertise with it when they take social responsibility. That is why we do not believe that the economic consequences and the extensive work involved in setting up a new labelling system, and indeed the administration of it, are in line with the benefits. Labelling is one way of getting consumers to make an active choice, but it requires clarity and credibility about the different brands, and for many different brands it may risk losing them. So we simply do not believe that this proposal is the best way to ensure proper working conditions and therefore the Socialists cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112541	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112545	Thank you. Now we heard before the Left, who thinks that consumers should find out for themselves, because it is too complicated to do together. Does the Socialist rapporteur also believe in such ideas that, when it is too complicated for the Community, it is much easier for the consumer himself to find out and make demands? Is it enough to regulate something as serious as the serious violations of workers' rights around the globe?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112615	I would like to start by distinguishing between the substance, that is, the fact that we clearly believe that we must fight for workers' rights throughout the world, because I believe that we should, and so the factual and present motion for a resolution, which is about whether we should have a labelling system or whether we should not have a labelling system. And I will deal with the latter. Because we should not have a labelling system such as that proposed by the Enhedslisten. Moreover, it only goes on products • What about services? We have not seen anything about this from the Enhedslisten side. As I am, among other things. I said in my speech that there are other ways of informing consumers about this. We believe that the forces we are throwing into the fight for workers' rights throughout the production chain are best spent in the way we have chosen to give priority to efforts, and that is one of them. through the CSR action plan, so that those companies throughout the production chain that are involved actually have an incentive to produce exactly in order. Consumer information is important, and that is why we have also undertaken various initiatives, such as: is supported both by the state, but also by the European Union, to schoolchildren as low as 3rd grade, so that we teach our children, when they go to school, to be actively aware consumers, so that they can make those demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112725	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112728	After all, the proposal has just been put forward in the wake of the CSR action plan in order to develop it precisely because we have an area where we cannot provide consumers with answers. We cannot give consumers proper answers when they ask. I myself have tried to mess around in stores where I live to see what I can do to learn how the workers have felt when these products have been produced. There's no way for me. I'm at a price unless I go out into the world myself and see how it is, and then find a factory where you produce properly. And it is quite inconceivable to let the consumer himself have that task. What, then, is the arrangement if the Socialists say that it is not this arrangement that this proposal is not the right one? What, then, is the proposal with which we can help consumers?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112817	The Socialists are certainly in favour of good and transparent consumer information, even when it comes to precisely social and environmental conditions for workers. There are already several private brands that work excellently with exactly this consumer information. I could only mention the Fair Trade brand and Max Havelaar, which, of course, contains several social factors. It's working very well. What I am saying is that the Socialists do not think it should be a publicly supported labelling system because it requires an infinite amount of effort, financial as well as marketing, verification and control. And if you do not have the confidence of consumers in such a thing, the effort you actually make is not the result. We know this and I would like to call on the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to go back to the studies that were carried out at the beginning of the 00s, which are about exactly this and which make it clear. There is research evidence not to go further along the path in which an ethics mark actually sees the light of day.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112921	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430112929	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party believes that the idea and principle of an ethical labelling system can sound reasonable. First of all, I have understood this as a voluntary scheme that is being proposed, and we believe that this is an absolutely necessary condition when it comes to a labelling system. This ensures that the labelling systems are ultimately driven by consumer requirements and demand. Consumer requirements must be at the heart of development, and therefore the content of such a labelling system must also be established in dialogue with the industries. In fact, the industries must be the primary source of inspiration for what a label should contain. Simply put: if it is profitable to be part of a labelling scheme, companies will have to find a way of using it. And in fact, as has also been mentioned, there have been considerations of including ethical criteria in certain markets in the existing labelling schemes Swan and Flower, but so far it has ended up in a dead end with a very simple explanation: the control task. As we note, the initiatives proposed in the motion for a resolution are very difficult to comply with, and it is a very high price that remains at it. I do not know whether Enhedslisten has thought that if an ethics regime is to be introduced for example. clothes, the price of the clothes people have to buy in stores or something, maybe twice as high. It may also be that Enhedslisten thinks it is quite all right, but I am not sure that consumers think it and then they opt it out anyway. Well, then they don't look for the ethics mark; then they look for the price when it comes down to it. Of course, we must also bear in mind that, as the previous rapporteur said, there are instruments, for example. The CSR Compass created. However, the Danish People's Party wishes to stress that if there are ethical criteria in a labelling system, this must be done within the existing arrangements. It is not good to create a separate system for consumers, which must relate to an already very messy market. And with what is proposed in the proposal, it will be incalculable to control it, and the individual consumer will probably not be able to check exactly what it is like and what it is like when it comes down to it. I think that if companies can see that there is sense in it, they will sign up for it and make such a scheme and say: we must have arranged conditions, we must have the goods produced elsewhere in the world than in the countries where they are produced today, and consumers may have to pay two or three times as much for the goods because we should not have them produced in certain countries. At the same time, it means moving some production from some countries, some people becoming unemployed in this respect. Just because the ethics label is coming and it's all going to be more expensive, sir. Christian Juhl does not count on it to benefit them, as Mr. Christian Juhl would like to help, in the end. Of course, I do not have any evidence to say anything about that, but it is just such an idea that it is not certain that it will ultimately benefit them, as Mr. Christian Juhl wants to help. But the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113307	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113310	It's about the price. Well, if the production price of a T-shirt was doubled, it was nothing, sir. Bent Bøgsted felt nothing important. The production price of a T-shirt does not exceed 5%. the sale price and that includes the profit to the textile company in Bangladesh. So, the production price is up to 5%. the sale price, and the rest is something that is served along the way in the chain. So it is not something that will change prices significantly, but it will change the conditions of workers out there in Bangladesh. I'd like to know what Bent Bøgsted himself does when he thinks about what kind of goods he's gonna buy. Is he only looking at the price and color of the T-shirt, or is he also thinking about how it was produced in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113358	Well, I think I do just like everyone else; when you have to buy some products, you look for what you like and if it fits in the color and size. I think that's what you do. I am not looking at labelling and where it is produced. I'm not looking at what brand it is. I don't wear labels, so I don't wonder about that. I'll look at the product and see if it's a commodity I like, and if it is, I'll buy it. Honestly, these aren't the most expensive stores I'm going into.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113428	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113430	Well, sir. Bent Bøgsted, if we do not think about this sort of thing, we risk having blood on our T-shirts, that is to say that we actually have what the campaign that is currently running across the country says, namely co-responsibility by buying it. We can, of course, just say as consumers: we will not take that responsibility. But we have a notoriously moral record of that. When Mr. Bent Bøgsted says that if companies can see an advantage from such a scheme, then they sign up for it, I would ask: does it not require that we have a system and a control over that system?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113506	I think those are strong words, sir. Christian Juhl goes into his mouth. But Mr. Christian Juhl might also be the reason why some people lost their jobs in Bangladesh and instead were driven out into prostitution just for us to be right in the game of words. I do not like the fact that we are going into a kind of debate like that. If companies want to produce and consumers want to buy goods that meet certain requirements, they do so. If a business is told by the customers that they will not trade there because you do not meet the requirements that Enhedslisten wants, then the company will probably find out how to produce it that way. But how does Mr. Christian Juhl convinces 5 million Danes that they should have the same attitude as Mr. Christian Juhl? This has not been achieved so far, and I do not think it will succeed either. I think that we should let consumers and businesses themselves plan how to choose what you buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113603	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113612	Thank you, Mr President. The government is very concerned about the spread of basic labour rights and sustainable production. The dimensions of sustainable development, but also the fact that there is a transaction on the market of goods based on and meeting standards that have been taken into account for workers, are something that really matters to us. Of course, it plays a role at all levels, but it is especially on the global stage that we must win that battle, so to speak. Let me start by saying that the Radical Left is against the resolution, because I see it most of all as a parade proposal. There may be some good intentions behind this parade proposal, but I would like to warn the Enhedslisten not to lift the tab so high that you skate around in the blue sky, as I think you do here, and connect as much as possible in the blue air. What Enhedslisten must also be concerned about is that we are getting closer, so to speak, to finding solutions, instead of being so concerned about standing on the sidelines and saying: we want all the good things, but you don't want that. In fact, I think that a sir... Christian Juhl's hints to the Minister were quite unacceptable. I'll tell you what. But I don't think we'll agree on that. What I, on the other hand, would like to strike a blow at is one of the things I have been familiar with when I was back in 2011 as a new member of the United Nations as a delegate, namely to see the support for the Global Compact that lies under the auspices of the United Nations. I do not have the latest figures, but it is at least around 10,000 companies on a global scale that have entered in relation to the commitments that lie around sustainable production, human rights and labour rights, and we are talking about some 250 Danish companies like this. And that's not just the number of them, because it's also about which networks they have access to. This then means that companies take a great deal of responsibility. Now I don't have a graph showing what exponential development connection to the Global Compact actually has. We cannot, of course, rely solely on companies taking responsibility, but I believe that something is actually happening out there. And I think that Enhedslisten should be a little more constructive and see if something can be done at global level instead of making this parade proposal. There are ten principles which are taken into account in the Global Compact, which I will not read out. I don't know if sir. Christian Juhl has been inside to look at what the company is actually doing, but I would urge it. We do not support the resolution, but of course we support the intentions behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113944	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430113948	I know the Global Compact and know that it is a good intention, but I am thinking of consumers' ability to act. I, along with good activists from the trade union movement in Silkeborg, have stood before our clothing companies in the city just to ask the question to the shops: Where do you get your goods? What are you dealing with? They can't answer that. And if not even the merchants can answer it, then the consumer can't get an answer at all. How can we help consumers choose a little more ethically in these areas than they do today? Do we not have a responsibility to help them make a choice? I think there are thousands of Danes who would like to buy, for example. their garments more consciously if they had the opportunity to see it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114042	Sir. Christian Juhl asks rhetorically whether we have no responsibility at all ourselves. Yes, we do, and I actually think that is quite important. But it is important that we do not start resorting to unrealistic instruments in this way. Of course we need vision, but it is important that we take the right steps towards greater respect for workers' rights and so on. One of the methods that I believe must be the way forward is, for example, that it becomes more transparent to the consumer and that, so to speak, it can be bought right, and it can be by labelling schemes on clothes where the clothes are examined and assessed and given a character, depending on how sustainable it is in the broadest sense, also in relation to workers' rights. So I think there are a lot of things we can do together, but I also believe that this requires a constructive approach, including that of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114150	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114153	I agree with Mr. Nadeem Farooq in that there may be other things that are at least as effective. For example: It is absolutely right that if we ensured that all workers on this planet had strong and independent trade union movements and trade unions to defend themselves, we were very well on the way, but they have not. But we have consumers in Denmark who want the transparency mentioned by the rapporteur but who do not have it transparency. After all, such a system can help to contribute, particularly in this quite crucial area, namely working rights at a global level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114229	As far as the trade unions are concerned, I fully agree; in fact, I think it is something that should be an export product from Denmark, what success we have with the Danish negotiating model, that is to say, the compromise-seeking, negotiating-oriented and solution-oriented model. So it will only be good if the trade unions could be inspired by the Danish model and that it is gaining ground. In fact, I believe that it will help the matter here, among other things. I'm just afraid that if we resort to some of the models that Enhedslisten puts forward where some are more unrealistic then the target loses sight. I think we need to take practical steps at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114311	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then I understand that colleagues have accepted that Mrs Charlotte Dyremose is now coming into the Chamber as a Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114320	I thank you very much for that, so I will also be able to reach my commitments a little later. So thank you to colleagues for that. In the Conservative People's Party we also see with quite a lot of seriousness that there is a very large difference between how products are produced and what consideration one takes to one's employees, to the environment and to nature etc., but we are very concerned about whether this proposal will solve something. In fact, this proposal has been tabled a number of times, if not in exactly the same wording, so at least in much the same wording, and there has also been quite a lot in the ten years since it was promoted. I know at least that it was last advanced almost 10 years ago and I, like the previous rapporteur, have also noted it here with the Global Compact, which, of course, takes account of international considerations here. What is right, really important when it comes to some of these issues, where we are among others. We have seen some horrible pictures from Bangladesh that we have to admit that we cannot solve them alone here in small Denmark; we can solve them if we do so internationally, and that is why it is in the international context that we can really make a difference. At the same time, however, we have also seen how various private enterprise-oriented initiatives can make a difference. This is where we have seen that, for example. The Max Havelaar label or Savannah label has become marked, where consumers have become aware that some particular ethical considerations are being taken into account, and it is then described on private initiative, which is why we, who want to be conscious consumers, have a better opportunity to do so. We have to say that each and every one of us also has a very, very great personal responsibility for taking a position and asking for the products where they make these brands that do these things, which make sure that the necessary consideration is taken into account, and that is precisely something that particularly large companies at international level have the opportunity to take the lead and thus outperform those who do not take account of them. There is no doubt that we all have a very, very great personal responsibility there. As several speakers have also said, there are a great many areas in which responsibility can be taken. It is true that it is rather difficult to see through both for one person and another, whether you are a politician or whether you are a private consumer, and that is why you also have to decide what marks you want to support, and that is where the companies have some real opportunities, for example. Making these co-operations and brands can do something. When I look at this resolution, one of the things I am looking at, for example. I would like to take into account something such as how to use the land. For example, it is undermining. the basis of living for a poor population by cutting down trees or otherwise tormenting the land, the nature on which these people must live? For this is not just about those who are involved in the production of the product, but also about the people who have to live in the areas where it is produced and the consequences that production may have for their living conditions. So who's in charge? Yeah, we all do, each and every one. Fortunately, many of these companies and producers do too, and there we can welcome a global media world that can help to raise our awareness. As several speakers have also mentioned, there is also a trade union responsibility, which is why it is a responsibility that we must all take on all the leads and edges we want. And we also have to do this at a realistic level, as several of us have also said, where the realistic level compared to these things, where it is absolutely not about Danish conditions at all, but about something we could not even imagine in this country, is that it is an international issue that we have to address in this context, among other things. under the auspices of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114803	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114806	I can tell Mrs Charlotte Dyremose that when I was young, there were more than 25,000 seamstresses and textile workers in Silkeborg, Ikast and Herning. There isn't any more. Why isn't there? It is because it is much, much cheaper to work where there are no trade unions and where workers can be oppressed in the way we see in Bangladesh. That's why we can buy as cheap clothes as we can today. That is why it is also a Danish problem, not a Danish industrial problem, but a Danish trade problem, that you actually make money, and that you use a colorful expression and now I actually have blood on the clothes you sell in expensive shops, also in Copenhagen. That is why it is important that we also take joint responsibility, not just individual responsibility. At least as legislators, we have a duty to help consumers see through this jungle. What labelling arrangements do we have today cover workers' rights and the oppression of workers around the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430114908	But there are, of course, plenty of different schemes that cover different things. The two I mentioned, Max Haavelaar and Savannah, take some of these into account. Then there are also a lot of other considerations. There we just have to say that although we, as consumers and as a country, are some of those who are buying products internationally, and we do and thank God we are doing so, because that is some of it too, we should remember that there is a contribution to the development of some of the countries whose alternative might be not to have this production, it is that a production is located in a country where some people are given the opportunity to get a job that they could not otherwise have, of course not just a bad thing. Then what we must contribute to is that it does not mean completely unreasonable conditions, and that is just what I am saying, that we in Denmark cannot solve that with a local labelling system. That would, moreover, be completely unrealistic for the Danish Government. I very much believe that the Minister for Employment will pay attention to being the one who should regulate the situation in Bangladesh all alone without international partners. So this is an issue that we need to ensure is secured at international level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430115019	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430115024	I think the answer sounds like that, yes, we can do nothing ourselves, so we sit back until there is an international arrangement. That's not a good answer. On the other hand, I am pleased that the previous debates, I understand from the rapporteur, have made the impression that things are actually happening and that people are getting together to help make solutions, just not just in this area. Then I think that I will just conclude that if it still leaves a few traces around, then I think we will continue to put forward these proposals until we can find a support and a consensus on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430115057	Thank you. Yes, Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430115102	I would just like to say that what goes on is when we all take individual responsibility. After all, it is also the individual responsibility that leads us to try to find solutions together. And when, as a country, we are pressing for this responsibility to be taken into account internationally, we are, as a small country, helping to influence the great world, but lifting the task alone is bad, not realistic at all. It will never work. What we can do is ask for this. We can do that as individuals, and we can do that as a country, and then we can create a breeding ground for international cooperation, and we can create a market for companies and other private individuals to create some of these schemes that we can then support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430115154	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430115204	I will begin by looking at this from the consumer's point of view. When you stand in your supermarket and have to choose from some groceries you have to buy, you have no idea whether those goods have been produced in a proper way, whether child labour has not been used, whether there has been no large-scale contamination, etc. It is also not known whether there have been many serious accidents at work on the goods in question because safety is not in order. That is to say, as a consumer, you are left on the land of the gentleman. That's not good. The political consumer really has a great influence, fortunately I think. We have seen that when, for example, we see it. I've been talking about organic products. Lots of people want to buy organic products because they want to avoid spray poison, as we all do by polluting our drinking water, and it is probably not very healthy to eat products that have been sprayed. We have also seen what has also been said from the platform, with brands such as Max Havelaar Fairtrade, where it is ensured that plantation workers, whether they are now concerned with getting us coffee or bananas, have had proper working conditions and that they are in any case sustainable production. This is something that many consumers are looking for, so it means that there is a great need for information. I believe that it should ideally be the case if one could arrive at that, that when I stand in a supermarket and have to choose from some goods, I should be able to see whether it has been produced under some conditions that give fair rights to those workers who have worked to produce them and who also ensure that there is sustainability in relation to all the environmental issues there are. So in this way we believe in SF that Enhedslisten's proposal contains a basically very good idea. Then various points have been made in the debate. That is, for example, the case. has been said that we have the United Nations system of Global Compact. That is also true, and it is also an excellent system. Here firms can report that they comply with ten principles, which are absolutely excellent principles, and then they can live up to their social responsibilities in a very good way. It is then a voluntary scheme that companies can join, but it is rather different from making a mark on products manufactured under these conditions. So I do not think that the Global Compact scheme in itself is an answer to the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten here. It has also been mentioned that the proposal provides for the labelling system to be financed by the State. That's not exactly what it says. It states that the labelling scheme must be state-funded or state-supported. It's an opening. It may be that it must be State-supported without specifying the amount of aid to be granted by the State. After all, the proposal envisages that there may be a discussion about how large or how small this state aid should be. It is clear that there must be some balance in it, so that the cost involved does not go up in the sky. But I do believe that many things can be done, also on the basis of the idea that Enhedslisten has put forward here. It is quite right, as has been said here in the debate, that it should be the case that it is also something that we are working on internationally. So true, so true! But the point is that there are a number of situations where it is important that some countries take the lead. It has also been Denmark on a number of occasions that has set the good example that can inspire other countries and that can perhaps inspire the European Union and in fact also inspire the United Nations. So that is the way to see political developments as a process. You cannot always get the big chromed solution from the start, and then you have to say, like the pragmatist I think most of us are, that we must start with what can be done and then try to work on it. So in this way the SF is positive about Enhedslisten's proposal and can vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430115633	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 1 p.m. with, as I understand it, sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130000	The sitting is resumed. We are dealing with the first reading of motion for a resolution. 100, and we've reached Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130025	We are dealing here with a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten on a state-funded labelling system in which consumers must be able to obtain all possible information on how products are produced and so on. etc. The intention is that it should help to improve working conditions and wages and everything else good in other countries. Of course, it is sympathetic to have the intention that these things should get better, but this is by no means the solution. There's a lot of happy things going on in this area in these years... a lot of even. Hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of poverty in recent decades. Prosperity is rising in the world. Is everything perfect? No. Is it going in the right direction? Yes, it certainly does. The United Nations has estimated that in 15 to 20 years' time what is called extreme poverty is exterminated in the world. In 5-10 years' time, Chinese employees will be at the same level of pay as in Europe. So it's going really, really well, and it's not because you've got clever ideas about labelling schemes at all. No, it is because the Communist and Enhedslisten's enemy number one, capitalism, has become more widespread and has lifted more people up to a higher standard of living. That is, of course, very, very welcome. This proposal will have no effect whatsoever, other than that the system will become bureaucratic, it will be expensive and it will not help the people whom its intention is to help. That is why we cannot, of course, support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130238	This triggered a brief remark from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130243	Does the rapporteur agree that there are millions of workers today living in extremely miserable conditions and that there are indeed companies moving from places where there is a well-regulated labour market and to places where the emphasis can be cheated by profiting the workers and by letting them work, as in Rana Plaza, under conditions which are dangerous to their lives? And if so, how will free competition help to ensure them proper conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130320	I certainly agree that it is not in all countries that employees have as high real wages and are as prosperous as they are in our part of the world. It would be completely insane to say so, because that is not the case. But what is real is that there is a really positive development in progress, that prosperity is being lifted. This is really, really positive and, as I said, it is not because we have these labelling systems. We can sit in our part of the world looking at working conditions in Bangladesh and think they are terrible. But what we need to remember is seeing things in a context. Firstly, 100 years ago we did not have such good working conditions in Denmark either. So we have been through a development. This is a development which is now also taking place in these countries and which, moreover, is moving much faster. Secondly, the consequence of increasing production for companies is not, of course, that these employees will only have better working conditions. No, the consequence is that some people are losing their jobs or that work is moving somewhere else. So the best thing to do is to see to it that trade barriers are broken down, that the market economy is allowed to work, because it actually raises people to a higher level of prosperity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130440	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130442	My experience is that liberalism or capitalism are totally blind to workers' rights. As long as you can produce the cheapest possible, as long as you can keep the unions away from the workplace, you can also suppress the workers. That is why it is important for us, who have to buy the goods, to have the opportunity to see through the conditions under which they are produced. Isn't it a reasonable requirement on the part of Danish consumers to have the right to know under what conditions this shirt or this pair of pants is produced? Then I can choose whether I will buy those that are produced under proper conditions, or those that are produced under slave-like conditions. Is it unfair to give consumers that opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130523	Liberalism and capitalism, which are a consequence of liberalism, are not blind to workers' rights. Liberalism is about freedom, including freedom of association, in other words that you can join others in voluntary communities and negotiate with the employer. You have to be free to do that. This is not the case in all countries. That is the case, for example. Not in China. I am very opposed to that, it should be changed in China. It should be possible to organise oneself freely as an employee. When wealth then rises out there, it says something about how effective the market economy is, that is, when it can nevertheless help raise people to a higher level of prosperity, even if there are no trade unions in the Danish sense. But to claim that liberalism is blind to workers' rights is wrong. On the contrary, if you look at the countries that have spread the ideology that Mr. Christian Juhl supports Communism, and we can see that it has led to miserable conditions for employees, to poverty and to much, much worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130630	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, but now as rapporteur for the proposers. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430130647	Thank you. When we enter a supermarket or shop in Denmark, the goods we find on the shelves are often produced under intolerable and directly dangerous conditions for the worker. This is the case in the textile industry, where over 1,100 workers died a few years ago during the collapse of Rana Plaza, a textile factory in Bangladesh, while they were sewing clothes for consumers in Europe and the United States. This also applies to Indian cotton farmers who commit suicide because they are so poor that they cannot make everyday life hang together. This applies to Colombian coffee farmers and miners who risk being killed if they organize themselves in a union. And this is very much the case with the workers who produce computers, frying pans, cars and all the other things we use in everyday life. Today, the consumer often has no way of knowing how the product is produced. Businesses can keep consumers in ignorance of or directly hide that they do not respect basic labour rights, use child labour and fire professionally active. The growing relocation of production has in many cases led to a race to the bottom. Companies place their production where it is cheapest to produce. All too often consideration of basic labour rights comes to give way to the desire for low production costs. I do not think we should just close our eyes to the fact that the clothes we wear, the computer we have here, or the cup of coffee we drink, have been produced under inhuman conditions. We must do something about this in many ways, both by strengthening legislation and by strengthening the international trade union movement and civil society organisations. However, we must also make it easier for consumers who want to make a responsible and solidarity choice when they act. That is why we are proposing the creation of an ethical label to enable consumers to choose products which have been produced in good conditions for the workers and which show that basic labour rights and human rights are respected in the production of the goods. There are already good examples; the fair trade mark is mentioned, and it covers foods such as bananas, coffee and chocolate and provides good guidance to consumers and follows up on production. There will also be more and more labelling in the textile sector. But on a great many products the consumer is currently left on the land of the gentleman. This is everything from frying pans to cars where the consumer really does not have the opportunity to make a responsible choice. An ethical label that can be used by producers selling in Denmark will, in the same way as eco-labels and eco-labels, allow consumers to choose products produced under proper conditions and to opt out of products produced under inhuman conditions. At the same time, this will give companies an increased incentive to respect workers' rights, as opposed to today, when it is all too often a good business to override workers' rights. It is an essential task to ensure proper control and thus the legitimacy of such a label, and it is therefore necessary for the state to be prepared to invest in making an ethics mark work. There are several precedents for labelling schemes which have received public support and which work very well: The eco-labelled Swan and Flower, managed by the Danish Standard and the Ministry of the Environment, have ensured that consumers can choose more environmentally friendly products. With this proposal, we would like to look at the possibility of creating an ethical label, such as: are linked to the Ministry of Trade and Development and where a group or board is set up to administer the label, consisting of representatives of ministries, trade unions, consumer organisations, human rights organisations, retail trade and professions, in short, operators already working in the area. One could, for example: organise the establishment of an ethics secretariat dealing with applications from companies wishing to have the ethics mark on their products and monitoring compliance with the criteria. The criteria for obtaining the label on its goods must include the product being produced in compliance with international law, UN human rights and UN guidelines on human rights and professions and fundamental labour rights based on ILO conventions. The requirements shall apply at all stages of the production process, i.e.: for both the supplier and the chain of subcontractors. Monitoring and assessment of compliance shall be carried out in cooperation with relevant trade unions, civil society organisations and authorities in the country of production. It will also be obvious to involve the Mediation and Complaint Institution for Responsible Corporate Conduct, the OECD Contact Point, which we have in Denmark. I hope that the Folketing will contribute to the establishment of an ethical label for Denmark, because it will help consumers who want to choose goods that are produced properly. This will make it more attractive for companies that want to improve conditions, and it is an absolutely necessary contribution to our joint responsibility to improve the working conditions of the billions of people who produce our clothes, computers and cups of coffee. Unfair conditions have already outperformed thousands of Danish jobs, although I recognise that a number of Danish companies have found their way to profit from the miserable conditions, for example. in the textile industry. So in this way I would like to recommend the proposal and I thank you for the contributions. I see no problem, as the Left points out, namely that it should be a great monstrum of an expensive administrative apparatus. Other labelling schemes have found a natural rental, and in cooperation with the industry, of course, the bill must also be paid by those who have a profit from such a labelling scheme. It is not a purely state expense, and we have not written that in the proposal either. In addition to that, it is surely a minimum, we should be able to do that in Denmark, and we can start a process which can then be brought to the European Union and which can be brought to the United Nations, so that we can make the scheme a good addition to the initiatives already taken by the trade union movement and the UN.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430131341	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430131401	The debate is open. First I give the floor to the Minister of Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430131420	Thank you, President. The Enhedslisten has made proposals to extend the tax exemption for electric cars etc. for a provisional period of four years. As Things and, at least, the rapporteurs here are already aware, the government, as published yesterday, has decided that the 2016 financial bill should include a 1-year extension of the tax exemption for electric cars in 2016, and that funding is provided as part of the financial bill for 2016. At the same time, the Government has decided that electricity and hydrogen vehicles after 2016 should be integrated into the general rules on registration and ownership fees and that it is over a longer phase-in period. This also creates the long-term security of the tax rules for electric and hydrogen vehicles that the industry is asking for. In relation to this, I also agree with Enhedslisten that a solution needs to be found for the current tax exemption to expire at the end of 2015. It must continue to be attractive for Danes to choose an electric car so that we can reduce our energy consumption and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, the electric cars do not have to pay full registration fee according to the applicable rules from 2016. That goes without saying. In 2014, around 1,600 electric cars were sold, and that is as many as sold in 2011 up to and including 2013 combined. I welcome this minor breakthrough for electric cars, which indicates that they are becoming so small as to become competitive. In my view, this minor breakthrough also points to the fact that the right solution is not an extension of the tax exemption for four years. Four years is a long time, and a technological breakthrough, together with a tax exemption, can quickly lead to large State revenues and an unfortunate competitive advantage for electric cars compared with other vehicles. The Enhedslisten proposes to finance an extension of the tax exemption by unspent funds from the current tax exemption. I'm afraid that's not an option. It would be convenient if there were about 2.5 billion. kr. that was not committed and that we could use for a solution, but it does not, and the money must therefore be found elsewhere. I would also like to take this opportunity to comment on the comments on the motion for a resolution that the government has basically failed to implement initiatives to limit CO2 transport. As Enhedslisten himself states, the government has among other things: the extension of the exemption for electric and hydrogen vehicles from 2013 to 2015. We have also implemented other initiatives to promote alternative fuels. For example, with the energy agreement for 2012, there are. EUR 70 million allocated; kr. for infrastructure and testing of alternative propellants and 15 million. kr. the continuation of the general electric vehicle test scheme. As part of the Agreement on the Finance Act for 2015, a total of EUR 14 million was set aside. kr. for grants to electric buses in the period 2015-2017 under the climate action pool. On the same occasion 13 million were set aside. kr. for initiatives in the field of business-oriented action for green report, requirements for public procurement of vehicles and energy-efficient transport in transport companies and municipalities. As Enhedslisten himself states, we have taken several steps to promote public transport. It reduces everything else's even car traffic. At EU level, the government has actively supported and promoted an ambitious, green climate and energy policy in the EU. In the field of transport, we have, among other things: supported the now agreed tight requirements for car CO2 We can also see that it is going the right way, CO2 This is partly due to the fact that new cars' CO2 Government is working to ensure that the CO2 of road transport is done by continuing to promote vehicles on alternative propellants. Therefore, as mentioned above, the government will propose a one-year extension of the tax exemption for electric cars and incorporation into the general rules over a number of years. The Government cannot therefore agree to a four-year extension or the proposed funding. The Government cannot therefore support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430131911	There are four brief comments, first one from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430131916	Thank you. As the tax minister says at first, we in the Danish Parliament have noted that yesterday the government issued a press release to extend the tax exemption for one year. However, what has also been noted, at least by my party, is that there was no funding in the proposal. So you give a present of 550 million. kr., but only refers to a Finance Act, which obviously can only come after an election. So is it not just a free round that you now promise the industry that there will be a tax exemption when you have no financing? This does not create the security that the industry really wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430131953	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430131954	As has been mentioned, it will be the case that when the government makes its financial bill, it will also include a tax exemption in 2016. Then those parties who want to deal with the Finance Act can, of course, consider whether that is what they want to support or not to support. In other words, the government has presented what we want and how we intend to finance it, namely in the way we normally finance financial laws. On the other hand, I have not heard what the position of the Danish People's Party is on the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132024	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132027	Well, that's easy. You can come up with a lot of proposals, you can just refer to the Finance Act after the elections. Would it not be more appropriate to give funding now? The Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal and has pointed to funding. The fact that it cannot be done is something else, but after all you have pointed to something rather than just pointing to something that is potentially in the future. I think it is a free round, and it does not give stability to the electric car market, simply saying that you want to reduce taxes in the future, but do not indicate any funding. And by the way, if a solution is found in November, the electric car race has run in the meantime, because when you come after August, it will take 1⁄2 years until you get it delivered, and then you will be there in the new year before you get it, and so it is too late to provide the stability they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132109	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132111	However, as I have said, a budget bill by the government which contains a question of financing an extension of the tax exemption will, of course, be financing in the way that is always available, and I do not know whether the rapporteur has a particular insight into when, if necessary, parliamentary elections will be held in Denmark. I haven't. That is why I can say that in all cases this will be something that is included in what the government has incorporated into the draft budget. And we can see that when it is presented in August.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132148	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132150	I want to stay on track, because the reports from the industry were yesterday agreed that this is not a workable solution. That is why I do not understand why the Minister of Taxation is not solving the problem of funding now and here, so that things are clear and manageable. I have to say that what is to be financed under next year's Finance Act is now a very, very long list. There are many bills the government has postponed to pay. That is why it is a repeat of the last election campaign. The golden promises will be made roundly, and the funding will have to be looked at later. Does the Minister not think that it would be more honest to say that there is this proposal from the government, that it is proposed to be financed in concrete terms and the way in which it is negotiated with the parties of the Folketing and made an agreement, so that it is in place instead of issuing good declarations of intent?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132243	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132244	What the government has said is that we will finance it under the Finance Act and will prioritise it in the Finance Act. I have not heard what the Left's position is on this issue, but if the government presents a financial bill containing funding, is it to be understood that the Left will insist on negotiating it out of it if you are to be involved in a finance bill? Well, that sounds a little like what Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen says.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132312	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132313	It's unbelievable. So, the government comes with golden promises and no funding, and then suddenly it is the opposition that has to stand up and defend where the money is coming from. Everything depends on how things work together. I think the Minister is reasonably aware of that. That is why playing with covert cards means saying that you have to take it later. Why will the Minister not solve this problem now? Why does the Minister not want to create an agreement where funding has been found instead of this being associated with the countless other bills? After all, the bills that lie are already far above the amount available to the government in its Finance Act. Why not make a deal now?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132401	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132402	When the government decides to finance it in the financial bill, the government will of course do so. The only ones who cast doubt on this are the Left and other parties who may think that there should be uncertainty. That's because it doesn't come from a clear message from anywhere else. The government's position is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132421	Sir. Henning Hyllested, short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132424	Yes, you can discuss how ready it is, I must say. One might wonder why the government's proposal is only now, if I may say so, at the last minute before the Enhedslisten resolution is to be considered. We in the Enhedslisten have raised this issue now, I think, 11⁄2 years, and we had it at the last budget debate and were rejected. What, then, should lead us to believe that the next budget debate will result in us implementing it? Yes, we have the tax minister's word that this will be put forward, but a financial bill debate is a give-and-take debate. And what's the guarantee? After all, there is an uncertainty as to who has the power of government. In other words, it could be said that the government already announced in its government base that there would be a major change in the entire registration system or the charging system for cars in the green direction. This is just a little bit of it, which is why you might wonder what it is that makes it possible for it to be done suddenly in the next budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132541	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132542	Now all I have to do is be absolutely sure what Enhedslisten really says. Is that what Enhedslisten says that an active attempt will be made to negotiate funding for electric cars out of a finance bill? I don't suppose so. It would then be most strange with the indications that have been from the Enhedslisten so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132602	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132604	Oh, I don't know how the minister gets it out of what I'm standing here saying. We have tabled a motion for a resolution which says that we must continue the tax exemption for electric cars for four years. The government will not be a part of that. The maximum duration of one year will be extended until further notice, at least. Does the Minister not agree with me that there is a very, very great uncertainty in the industry and that this uncertainty is not removed when you do not know whether you have been bought or sold in connection with a financial bill negotiation? There's actually, Minister, delivery time on electric cars. If you buy an electric car in October and get it delivered in March, you will have to pay a registration fee on it at that time if the tax exemption is not extended. So a clarification, Minister, is what the industry is asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132655	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132656	That was actually a very clear answer. I appreciate that very much. In other words, we can expect Enhedslisten to support a proposal if the government makes a proposal to extend the exemption from the tax on electric cars. At least that's how I listen to it, sir. Henning Hyllested says. And that's a clear message. This is as clear a statement as the government has made. The industry must also be able to enjoy that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132724	Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132728	I have to ask more about the sudden announcement by the government yesterday, because it is, of course, perceived by everyone in the system as a message that gives more confusion and more uncertainty throughout the industry. It is, of course, relatively unusual for the government to make such promises before a financial law, and then it is said that it is only necessary to do that task without having found a concrete solution to it. So I have to ask the Minister how firm this promise is. Is it as firm as the government's many promises before you step in, for example? one of the two concrete things that the Prime Minister promised loudly and sacredly would become something, namely the housing allowance? That would never be removed as a government, said the Prime Minister, and we stand here in 2015, and there is no housing allowance. Is that the same kind of promise the government makes with regard to electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132817	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132818	Now, sir. Brian Mikkelsen, after all, is burdened with knowledge of how intergovernmental cooperation works, and so Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, of course, also states that when the government decides that it will be incorporated into a financial bill, it will of course also be incorporated into a financial bill. I guess that's not so surprising. On the other hand, I have not heard what Conservatives really want in relation to electric cars. It's flapping in the air.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132842	Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132844	The tax minister must admit that unfortunately we are burdened with experiences with the government about promising a whole lot of things that you do not live up to and that you do not follow up on and that you do not implement. And that is surely why the industry and the whole market reacted very negatively to a message that the government probably thought would be viewed positively. However, it was perceived very negatively because a lot of things have been promised which have not been followed up in this way. So it will of course be interesting to see how much blood, sweat and tears you put into this case, which goes into the line of ten concrete promises you have made, and where the nine of them have at least so far become nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132922	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132923	I understand if there are some people in the industry who say that it can be a little unclear and difficult to hear what is being said. Sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten is very clear about what Enhedslisten wants, and the government is very clear about what we want from Conservatives there is no answer, from the Left there is no answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132940	The next question is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430132945	As you know, the Liberal Alliance wants to abolish the registration fee for all cars, so we have therefore financed the exemption of electric cars as well. This has happened in our 2025 plan and we have the Ministry of Finance's word that this plan is overfunded. So there's extra money out of that plan. If we had not done so, if we had merely proposed reliefs in various places and said that it should be financed by a financial law, I am sure that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht and other Social Democrats would have criticised us very much. Mr. Benny Engelbrecht and other Social Democrats in this way to the Danish People's Party, because when they propose things and then do not present funding proposals, it is very bad, and the Socialists create websites where there is something about it etc. What is the reason why the Danish People's Party is not allowed to do so when the government is allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133032	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133033	The answer is simple: the government has already decided that this will be a priority in the Finance Act. Then I am well aware that the Liberal Alliance is not normally a party that is so enthusiastic about being part of the financial law agreement, but it does not change the basics that the government has come up with a clear position and a clear indication of what is happening. There are other parties who have done so in this Parliament. It seems to me a little unclear whether the Liberal Alliance is included, if necessary, in a financial agreement which includes that there will also be tax exemptions for electric cars in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133114	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133115	The Liberal Alliance would certainly like to be involved in the financial law negotiations, and I guess that the likelihood that we will be involved in the next financial law negotiations is greater than the probability that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht and the Social Democrats are in the next budget negotiations. At least that's what the polls indicate. But the question remains: why can't we and the Danish People's Party and other parties just say that we will distribute money here and we will distribute money there and we will find the money during the budget negotiations? Mr. Benny Engelbrecht didn't say we should do it while Mr. Benny Engelbrecht at the same time believes that he can. Benny Engelbrecht well himself do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133150	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133151	I think it's called the tax minister when you address me. Doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133153	Yes, it's called the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133155	That's good. I think it is interesting, and perhaps a little presumptuous, that we are already at this stage, after there is a likelihood that there will be a change of government. It's okay. There have been civil politicians in the past who have proclaimed it before an election. But that is all the more reason why there should be a clear statement from the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives, the Left and the Danish People's Party about what you really want. The government's position is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133230	Thank you to the author for correcting himself. It's the office you ask questions about. Then the tax minister will have to stay here, because Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen would very much like a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133251	Thank you. After all, it was not the tax minister, but the Minister for Climate and Energy who said in November 2014 that right after New Year we would be called for negotiations to look at the future of electric cars. We haven't been, and now the tax minister has made this announcement yesterday about the future of electric cars. However, if we had now been called for negotiations, we could have sat down to see if the ends could be met with a view to finding a solution that was also funded, because, as several speakers have said today, we could risk the composition of the government changing after a choice, at least before we look at a new financial law. And we hear no promise from the Left or from the right to find funding for a solution for the electric cars, which is why the uncertainty is as great as it was yesterday. Why hasn't the Minister of Taxation and Climate and Energy called us for negotiations so that we could possibly find a funded solution here and now and thus create security for the industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133404	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133406	I assume that it is reasonable to assume that if the government makes a financial bill which provides for an extension of the tax exemption for electric cars in 2016, then SF will also be active in relation to it. I assume that the questioner can also indicate in the second round in a moment. That is why I do not fully understand why it can be my responsibility and the responsibility of the government that, when the government can give a perfectly clear statement of what the government's intention is, but there are parties in the Folketing that do not do so, then it should be our challenge. I believe that it must be the case that we state what we want, what we intend to do. The government has made it quite clear what our intention is. Our intention is to put forward a financial bill which provides for an extension of the tax exemption for electric cars and hydrogen vehicles in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133505	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133506	Of course it is the government's responsibility to keep what you promise. And the government promised in November that we would be called for negotiations on a solution for the electric cars. The government's basis states that a fully funded revenue-neutral solution must be found, a change in car charges. After all, we have been able to see that we did not achieve that before an election, but for SF it is important that we finance a solution for electric cars which does not necessarily need to be a full tax exemption, but a solution that ensures that we still have electric cars in Denmark that we get it funded within the system. That is also how I understand the government basis. So SF cannot say in advance that we will spend money that could otherwise have gone to schools and elderly care, from the Finance Act, when what had been promised was that we found a solution within the existing tax system. So, yes, it is the responsibility of the government to keep what is promised, namely to call the rapporteurs and the parties to a debate to find a funded solution here and now for the electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133612	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133613	Now I am confused at a higher level, for I have assumed that SF was interested in the fact that in 2016 there was also a full tax exemption. However, what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen now indicates is that there may also be a phasing-in which should already be started in 2016, i.e. in other words, worse conditions than what the Enhedslisten, for example, proposes in this resolution. So the government has indicated that what we want is to make a full tax exemption similar to the one that works here in 2015, and that is certainly clear and unambiguous.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133648	Then I say thank you to the tax minister and to the questioners. And then it's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430133657	For far too long, the government has been sitting on its hands in this case. As the debate has shown, it was already last year that the government announced that it would come forward with its proposal at the beginning of this year. It should have been presented and discussed at the beginning of the new year, but nothing has happened until yesterday. For now, the government will provide clarity with a non-binding and unfunded commitment to extend the tax exemption by a single year and then gradually phase in the electric cars into the existing tax system. The funding is yes, it will come later. I understand that yesterday the electricity industry was critical, because it is not a real solution that the government is proposing. It is a declaration of intent, it is a promise without cover, because this is by no means the only bill that the government is pushing ahead of it. The giro cards on the Finance Minister's table are piled up: the savings on preparedness have not been found; there is an Afghanistan strategy that has not been financed; nor has the terrorist package been funded; the government has come up with a youth crime initiative, which also has to be financed in the same way; there is additional expenditure in the field of asylum, not to mention the Togfonden DK's gaping gap. All this must be funded by the government in next year's Finance Act, but only the tax exemption for electric cars actually uses the government's financial room for manoeuvre, so the money is simply not there unless the government makes huge savings elsewhere or taxes need to be significantly increased. The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution here is a proposal to extend the exemption for four years. It is a proposal for a price of over 2 billion. kr., and the funding is to spend money that is already part of the financing of the tax agreement for 2012, and the money cannot even Enhedslisten spend more than once it could otherwise have been cheerful. In the Left, we want to promote new technologies in the car market. We ourselves were behind the tax exemption for electric and hydrogen vehicles under the VK government, and we helped to extend the tax exemption in 2012. It was fully funded, contrary to the proposal made by the government. Of course, should we be able to consider whether the current definition and approach are too narrow, because why only bet on electric and hydrogen vehicles? There are other technologies that are also intrusive, such as gas cars. Therefore, the Left would like to explore the possibility of taking a more technology-neutral approach, so that different fuels are thought into, rather than focusing solely on electric and hydrogen vehicles. A few weeks ago, I was standing in the Chamber asking the tax minister what the government intended to do when the tax exemption for electric and hydrogen vehicles was abolished. The Minister then replied that several different models were being considered. But instead of calling for a debate where, hopefully, a broad and sustainable solution to the problem could be created, the government came yesterday with its unfunded initiative and, as you know, that is no solution. That is why the government should call for negotiations so that a funded solution can be found that will clarify the conditions for the future. It is a free round that the government has made, and it seems, according to the discussion that was here earlier, that the government believes it can bluff itself through an election campaign. It has been seen before that the golden promises are made, and then you have to deal with the bill afterwards or run from the promises. We have a government that is world champion of that. The alternative is that the government has given up being government after the next elections and is counting on some others to pick up the bill. Whatever the case, it is not very sympathetic; it is not very clear about the issue we are dealing with now. Negotiations should be convened now so that we could find a viable solution, a funded solution, so that there was clarity about the rules in the future. The resolution before us by the Enhedslisten is in the same category as the government's proposal: expensive promises, but no funding. That is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134132	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134134	It seems like the Left really enjoys teasing the government in this case. However, I am more interested in knowing what the position of the Left is. Will the Left, regardless of which government is in the autumn, ensure in the Finance Act a long-term solution for electric cars, whether the model is a full tax exemption or a tax exemption which may have to be phased out over a number of years, or what one might imagine, but a fully comprehensive solution that ensures that we provide an incentive to promote electric cars in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134225	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are very happy to contribute to the creation of a clear, clear framework, a well-known framework, so that there is certainty as to what this setup will be for the future. I do not think anyone has the imagination to imagine that there is an electric car market if you go from 0 to 180 per cent from one day to the next. But I think it would be interesting to have a debate with the tax minister, because the tax minister has said that there are different models. As long as what has now been put forward is also very, very unclear, because there needs to be a gradual phasing-in of the current registration tax system. Gradually how many years is that? It has not been clearly reported by the government. So we do not even have that in place, so that is why we need to have a debate so that we can relate to what might be of different models, which promote that purpose and ensure clarity and ensure that there are conditions that do not go from 0 to 180 per cent. from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134326	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134327	I very much agree with the latter. If we had had a real debate, we could also have put the cards on the table and seen what people would actually be involved in, what parties would be involved in, how it should be financed. I'm in complete agreement with Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen in that we have to find a solution where we don't go from 0 to 180 per cent. from one day to the next. It will also cost some money, and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he agrees with the principle that funding should be found within the current tax system, in other words some form of reorganization.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134406	The Secretary of State for Taxation. Sorry, I mean the rapporteur. Torsten Schack Pedersen It could be tempting). The rapporteur. It was a short appointment!
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134416	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Thank you for your confidence. I have to say that the principle of sustainable financing is obvious, and I have to say that the only logical thing is to come to a debate now. We can surely find a way of financing it, but that presupposes that we have a debate now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134450	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134459	I just have to start by clarifying something if the Left rapporteur really believes that it is unclear what the government has announced. It is therefore that the tax exemption, as we know it, is also being continued and extended for one year. It can't be much clearer than that. However, I note that the rapporteur of the Left is standing on the floor and says that the Left would like to promote the electric cars. That is why it is quite appropriate to know here today what the Left's answer is to the electric car industry; to municipalities and regions; to car buyers who have asked for answers. And that is a very short answer that the rapporteur of the Left can give me, because it can be dealt with in a yes or no way. Will the Left extend the tax exemption, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134555	The Left would like to help create a stable framework, a well-known framework, clarity and a funded solution. I think the social democracy has tried once before, and there you can discuss how well-liked you were and how lucky you got away with it. I'll leave that discipline to the government. I think the Danes can see through that this is another golden promise; another promise that has not been financed; another bill that piles up with all sorts of other bills that the government says they are handling on the other side of a parliamentary election. I don't think that's honest. We want to help find a viable solution now. We believe that this would provide the necessary clarity, and that is why we call on the government to call for negotiations so that we can jointly make an agreement that ensures that it is attractive to have electric cars and that there is a well-known, stable framework and that they are funded not only with golden promises, and that there will probably be a good solution tomorrow, or at least to the next financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134659	Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134701	It was a very long answer that did not contain the answer to what I asked. The Left can make it quite clear here today. Now the government has undertaken that the extension of the tax exemption is part of our financial act and is therefore also financed. That is quite clear. The Danes can count on this. The only insecurity created here is when we cannot get a yes or a no from the rapporteur of the Left. Will this also be to find, if it is the Left, who should be fortunate enough to be allowed to deliver the Danish Government's bill of finance? That is a 'yes' or 'no', we need 'yes' for the sake of the industry, for the sake of consumers. And it is fortunate that the rapporteur of the Left can provide that security and clarification here today by not making a very long speech in the East and the West about everything, but by answering us. If the Left now says that they want the electric cars, will they help to extend the tax exemption one year, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134754	We would very much like to be involved in negotiating with the government, but this issue of issuing golden promises without cover is not sustainable. I think that the amount of unpaid bills that the government is pushing in front of it is growing and growing. And if the government is so concerned about that proposal, why hasn't the funding been put forward? That is too easy, and that is a cheap round to say: we promise; the funding may come, perhaps, sometime, along with all sorts of other things. Well, let's get this straight now. We can have a debate, and then we'll see if we can get the ends to meet. We'd love to step up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134835	Sir. Nadeem Farooq for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134837	I think I remember that the then VK government, when it launched the spring package, also had funding that was linked over time and not from year to year. That way, what we do is legitimate. We will find a solution and say that we are funding it through the Finance Act. When the Left criticises that solution, it must be obvious for the Left to point to a solution itself. The answer is surely not to say that we must call for negotiations. Behind that must be a proposal on how to deal with it if the government does not do it well enough. And what is the Left's answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134916	It can be said that the government's precautionary principle that proposals are not made unless funding has been found has died many times, but at least now it is buried really, really deep. Because there is no funding for this, and that, in its simplicity, is the problem. If you look at the financial statement, as Mr. Nadeem Farooq's party colleague has presented, so it can be seen that the government itself operates with a margin of 0.1%, i.e. 0.5 billion kr. - Sir... Nadeem Farooq said, on behalf of the Radical Left, that all the room for manoeuvre available under next year's Finance Act will be given priority for this proposal alone? It would be interesting if we could get this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134956	Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430134958	I think we will have the opportunity to talk about that in a moment, but I would like to arrest something else: if the Left is so critical and the criticism seems so direct, and the Left also seems indignant that the government has made the proposal that it did yesterday, then it should be a simple matter for the Left to point out what the Left will do instead. I think it should be simple. Why does the Left not want out what the Left's proposal is?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135029	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I stood here in the Chamber with the Minister for Tax, I think it was three weeks ago when the Minister said that there were different models that were being worked on. And you've had a really good time to work with the government. If the government is concerned with securing clarification, then the government will call for negotiations on the various models that have been under consideration. Well, then we can see what's possible. What's the cost? How can we make a deal? But all this presupposes a debate, and I stand here and say that we would like to have a debate, because we would like to have clarity, and that is not just by pushing the bill into the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135110	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135113	The whole purpose of the motion for a resolution is, of course, to ensure safety for the industry and to eliminate uncertainty. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: is it prepared to support a tax exemption for one year? The rapporteur has replied in this way, namely that it would like to be negotiated with the government and with the minister. I agree with that. Does that mean, for example, that we are going to have to do something about it? Here, then, very quickly, can agree to write a report in which we instruct the government to call for negotiations before the summer in order to find funding for the continued tax exemption? Whether it lasts 1 year, 2 years or 3 years, we really don't care about it. Of course, we can discuss whether 1 year's tax exemption really creates the security for the industry that is necessary, because it is still not fair that an industry should jump away for one year at a time, but it is preferable, however, that nothing should happen at all, so that they go from 0 per cent. to 185%.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135231	I basically agree that what will provide clarity is that negotiations are called for and that a sustainable and funded solution is secured which would provide a clear framework. I can only repeat my call to the government to get those negotiations under way, instead of just pushing things and leaving the bill unpaid. I understand that the Enhedslisten is also concerned that the government does not dare to be more firm. But the ball is with the government. We in the Left are always ready to stand up for negotiations. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135306	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135307	But then it has to be firm. After all, we can continue to stand and shout at each other long enough and say that the government must do so while the government says that it has not heard anything from the Left and from all the other parties. Will we, and that is why, of course, I ask the Left to join in writing a report, so that we try as firmly as we can now, to take hold of the government and say that we are negotiating before the summer break and finding funding? In this context, I would like to ask: what could be the proposal by the Left for funding in this area if such a debate were to take place? Does it agree that there must be funding within the existing tax system, for example??
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135345	I would like to look very constructively at a proposal for a report requiring the government to convene negotiations. I am not quite sure that it necessarily binds the government to doing so. But to send the clear signal in one way or another, I would very much like to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135403	Thank you both to the rapporteur and to the authors. And then it is Mrs Astrid Krag as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135414	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by making it clear that the Socialists are of the clear conviction that electric cars are a good thing for Denmark, and we are prepared to find a way to ensure optimal opportunities for the electric car industry, so that in the future they will also have a safe place in the Danish car market. After all, the Socialists are behind the goal of Denmark being free of fossil fuels by 2050, and if we are to achieve that goal, it is crucial to bring the transport sector along. Electric cars play an important role here. Firstly, because they do not emit greenhouse gases directly, nor do they emit CO2 The electricity industry, however, has the challenge that it is a new technology that requires new investment in infrastructure. That is why we also have an exemption from registration fees for electric and hydrogen vehicles. It applies, as it is on the table now, in 2015 and out, and therefore it is incumbent on us politicians to ensure that there is also a market for electric cars in 2016 and subsequently. Work is being done, as we have already mentioned in this Chamber, to find a long-term solution which will provide the necessary stable and forward-looking framework conditions for the electric car industry. It's not quite simple if it was, some might have shook that model out of their sleeve. We want to ensure that there is peace of mind for all the parties working on the model, which is why the Minister has also been able to announce that the government will extend the tax exemption for electric cars until 2016 as part of the Finance Act for 2016. So we agree with Enhedslisten's premise that we must ensure that there is also a market for electric cars in 2016; we agree that there is a need for security. It is therefore also quite worrying to stand in the Chamber today and to hear that the party that should be ready to ensure the security, namely the Left, is as unclear as they are. In other words, something as simple as a 'yes' or 'no' to the fact that we are supporting an extension of the tax exemption, we have not been able to beat the rapporteur of the Left. It should be simple, especially when, as the rapporteur of the Left, we stand on the platform and say that security is so necessary and that we want the electric cars well. Then it could have been done with a single yes, and then security would be assured. I find that worrying. I would worry if I were sitting out there, both as an electric car industry and as some of the municipalities, regions or citizens who want to know the future of the electric cars, that we cannot get a clear answer from the Left. We can get a long song from the hot countries, a maybe and a buh and a boo. I think the Left should do better. On the specific motion for a resolution, I would like to say to the Enhedslisten that we do not agree with, nor do we agree with, nor do we agree with, the funding that has been proposed, which is why we cannot support the resolution. However, we fully share the ambition and goal of Enhedslisten that there should also be a market for electric cars in the future, both in 2016, and when it comes to the longer-term solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135725	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135730	I agree with the rapporteur's concern about the lack of clarity we can get from the Left. I find that very worrying. That is why I also find it very worrying that we need to get to a financial bill debate before we can have any certainty about this. Because the Finance Act is being negotiated in the autumn, and there we can risk having another government in this country, a government in which the Left could take the lead and which will not issue any guarantees to secure the electric car industry. My criticism of this has not been that the government and government parties would like to do something for the electric cars, but that is simply the time horizon in it, that is, that there will be a choice sometimes, where we cannot be sure what will happen next. Therefore, it does not provide any certainty for the industry; it does not provide any certainty for those who would like to buy an electric car with many months of delivery if they do not know if there has suddenly been a change of government and if the Left is at the forefront and will not really give priority to this area. As I have said, we cannot get any guarantees for this, which is why I think that the rapporteur would also have liked to mention it as well if we had done what was stated in the government base, had just looked broadly at the tax system and found a revenue-neutral solution which could have financed some form of continued model for electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135858	I would like to say to the SF rapporteur that the only thing that makes this worrying, in other words that this is part of the financial law proposal, is if anyone shows up and wants to negotiate it out. We have not been able to get a clear answer from the Left as to whether they want it or not. It will be part of the government's proposal for finance law with funding and everything, and that is why it is only at risk if someone meets with the aim of negotiating that funding and the solution out of the financial bill. Therefore, it says on the bottom line, no matter how you turn and turn it, that the security that is needed for the industry and the security that is needed for consumers, you can now provide by the Left • Conservatives and the Danish People's Party are also very happy to get on the ground by saying that you support it here. It is very, very simple, and what thus gives rise to uncertainty is that we cannot get that answer here today, and I share that uncertainty and concern, and I sense that I feel on an equal footing with the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135950	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430135952	I fully agree with that. If we could get a clear answer, it could be said that whatever government sits I hope, of course, that it is a centre-left government that sits after the next elections there could at least be some sort of clarity. But now it is S and R that have representatives in the government, it is the current government, and I hope it will continue, but we do not know that, and that is why it is also the responsibility of the current government to ensure that safety for the industry. And there is just a time perspective in this where we do not know which government sits in the autumn and negotiates finance law. So I think it is the responsibility of the current government to secure that guarantee for the industry, and this could be done by calling on the parties to negotiate a funded solution. On the other hand, it should be a solidarity solution in which the cars that are most polluted must help to finance a greener car park, just as the government's aim is also to get rid of fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140101	Well, we SF's rapporteur and I have also had the opportunity to discuss this earlier, also in the media, and I would say that I think it is obvious that this will be part of a financial law and subsequent legislation. In this way, we will be able to do so before the tax exemption expires. And we could have it absolutely crystal clear here today, whether that would be the case, no matter what might happen in a parliamentary election, which we do not know when to come, but know has been there when we reach the adoption of the Finance Act. It just takes a yes or a no from the Left, and I have to say that I find it worrying that we cannot get it, and otherwise I just want to say that I am listening to the fact that we can at least be sure where we have SF in this case, and that is wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140142	Sir. Henning Hyllested, short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140144	As the rapporteur said, we can easily discuss the timetable. It's fine for us, it's not supposed to depend on it. When we have proposed four years, it is because, as I said, we believe that we really need to have a slightly longer perspective than just one year. Don't worry about it. At least that's not what's gonna separate us. However, the government and the Socialists could also help to create some clarity by actually putting forward a proposal for funding. In other words, when we have tabled this motion for a resolution, it is precisely because the government has not wanted to play out at all. At the latest in the financial law negotiations, where we proposed it, we could not force the government out of the bush, and subsequently we have not been able to do so either. Then suddenly something comes up, and there you could clarify it by saying, well, okay, you have a proposal for funding. So it could also satisfy the other side of the House. And instead of keeping the whole industry in, what should I say, a clamping force, you might actually be able to collect the whole thing if you were a little more willing to say: let's try to talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140300	First of all, let me say that, in principle, I am in complete agreement with Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested in that the time horizon for this has to be longer. I also said what the Minister said in my rapporteur's speech. Now we are extending it by one year so that we are able to make the permanent model, that is, the model which is not a temporary tax exemption; a model with which it can be completely completed, if one can put it that way. Of course, it has to be done in a way that can take into account what can happen from technology development and technology jumps and all of this for the electric cars, and it will hopefully at some point take further speed. So I kind of agree. The extension takes place by 1 year to ensure that you have proper working conditions and to ensure that something is done properly and thoroughly. Then I would just like to say that the government has just guaranteed, and there will be funding, because this will be part of our financial bill as a whole. We can then choose to use that as an opportunity to do controversy and not answer ourselves what we are going to do with the matter, as the Left has done, or we can choose to do with what I hear, Mr President. Henning Hyllested do, namely recognition that something positive is happening now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140413	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140414	Yes, but it is still really about funding, and the idea is that we have not put forward proposals for funding, and that we have to wait and see that in the context of the financial law negotiations. Yeah, okay. But, of course, the problem is that the financial law negotiations are a give-and-take debate, so what are you faced with? Who says you can eat any savings the government might make? If, for example, there is one... further savings in the benefit area, it would be inedible for Enhedslisten. That is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur: is it not prepared for the funding that is to be made of a tax exemption for just one year to be found within the existing tax system? That could clarify a lot of things. And I should like to say that there are a great many things that can be done within the existing tax system without completely bombarding the system or without completely tearing the system apart or rewriting it completely wildly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140509-2	I think, in fact, that Mr. Henning Hylllested as well as I know that we will not be standing here the day before 1 May in the spring and making advances on the specific financial legislation negotiations, and even when they come, it will not be this way. That's what's going on, sir. Henning Hyllested himself describes, around a table. But what you need to know is that the financing of this is going to be part of the government's financial bill, so unless someone shows up and wants to negotiate it out, it is therefore financed. What worries me is that we cannot get an answer from the bourgeois about whether they are going to come forward with the aim of negotiating this out or not at all, we should be in the miserable situation, that it is the bourgeois financial laws that are being negotiated. That is what gives rise to the great uncertainty that is causing the insecurity that we have heard the industry and consumers complain about for so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140602	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140604	Why doesn't the government call for negotiations now?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140611	I think I'd rather not stand here and act like I'm the minister. Now I know that sir... Torsten Schack Pedersen for a short while during the negotiations here was allowed to try to be the tax minister. I don't know if it can be counted on one or two hands, how many seconds it was. Now, however, the government has clearly stated that there will be funding for this in our Finance Act, and so there is no reason to call for negotiations on it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140634	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140636	As to how this is financed, one can just say that the unpaid bills that lie are far greater than the room for manoeuvre that the government itself operates in its financial statement. Those are notorious facts. Then it's exciting to hear if it's savings that need to be made. Should the hospitals be cut down? Are we gonna fire even more educators? Do the landowners have to pay? Is the bottom tax to be increased? Or what? However, I believe that the rapporteur is of the opinion that the implementation of proposals with which we are in favour is closely linked to what this funding is. So why don't you get this straight now instead of the pile of unpaid bills?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140730	We have to tell the rapporteur of the Left that he must have a whole lot of plus points in that little book of certain terms which the Left must mention as often as possible. I have to say that every time a Leftman gets up and talks about unpaid bills, there's a little voice laughing in my back head. I would just like to say that the rapporteur of the Left mentions a lot of things that will never come into play as funding, because we have common agreements in the areas ahead, for example. the things that are being mentioned in the area of taxation policy. So, listen: what we need to get an answer to here today is whether the Left will help to ensure that the tax exemption is extended by one year. It is not a difficult question, it is actually a very simple question that can be answered with a yes or a no. But I do not hear any answer from the rapporteur of the Left; instead I hear the usual talk about unpaid bills and notorious facts, which, frankly, I do not think we can use so much in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140818	Sir. Nadeem Farooq has accepted that... Excuse me, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær has accepted that Mr. Nadeem Farooq speaks first, so I give the floor to the radical rapporteur, Mr President. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430140831	Thank you, Mr President, and also thank you, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær. One might say that in the wake of yesterday's announcement by the tax minister that the government would extend the tax exemption for electric and hydrogen vehicles by one year, so that it is applicable throughout 2016, and then phase-in or phase-out, depending on how you see it, a picture has been drawn from some quarters that it is not a viable solution. I would like to say two things. First of all, that is not all we do. We have done quite a lot to promote green transport and also to try to give less money to electric cars. One might say that the ambition that Denmark should have one of the greenest car parks, car fleets, is intact. So it is simply not true that we have done nothing else. The second is, of course, that we have to look at that holistic solution when we've done the analyses that are needed, and then in the wake of that we've calmed down about this, of course, look at what we're gonna do after 2016. So it is not the case that the government only extends the tax exemption and nothing else does. It's just to get those myths in the ground. Otherwise, both the Socialist rapporteur and the Minister have explained very well the underlying ideas, so I will spare the House that. However, I believe that this is the right solution, and I also believe that it is right to find funding in relation to the priorities when we reach the Finance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141022	Two have asked for brief comments. First, it's sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141027	The Radical Left has previously tried to profil its way across the wings of Danish politics, and so on. etc. Is it not appropriate in this case that, as a government party, you are trying to take on that role? Because I'm starting to feel like you're taking a whole business hostage in some game between the wings. Should we call for negotiations or should we not? Are you going to provide funding, or are you not going to? The best way to clarify this is to sit down and try to discuss it here instead of just saying: well, it has to wait for the budget negotiations. And it is running as it is now, and while the industry can be unsure whether it is all going to happen at all and what government is there at that time. So was it not time that the Radical Left really took on the role in which they excelled and tried to bridge the wings in this situation so that an industry should not be left in uncertainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141135	Well, I can't do anything but sign off on the praises of the Radical Left. I'd be a piece of shit if I didn't sign for it. But what is crucial for me, the Radical Left and the government, is to say that when we do what we do, it is not really so much about political gambling. It's about us having a bottom-up task, precisely because we in the government think we have that in common with many other parties... subscribe to the view that this is important. It is important that we promote electric cars; it is important that we promote framework conditions for electric cars. We want more electric cars. In fact, we want electric cars to be so strong in the market that they are the ones that will dominate it, that is to say electric cars and hydrogen cars. Then there is a challenge with funding. It needs to be solved, and that is a bottom-up task. So I think there is a vision in this, and we share that vision, and then we have to find a solution in relation to funding, which we will also solve, just as we have done all the other years, also in cooperation with the Enhedslisten. So I actually think that the challenge that is is being exaggerated a little bit in relation to the parliamentary work here. I do not think we are going to short-circuit anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141256	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141257	Yes, but the problem is that there needs to be clarification now. That is exactly what the problem is, because the industry cannot wait any longer. There are even professionals who claim that you're about to cross the border. So you cannot wait until August when the Finance Act is introduced. And we cannot wait for the negotiations on the Finance Act, which will take place in October/November, and a Finance Act, which will be adopted in December. That's it. As I mentioned earlier, for example. a delivery time for cars, and if you do not know what to pay for the car you order in October or for that matter in August, because you only get it delivered in January, then you can risk that instead of 0 DKK. the registration fee has to pay 185%. It is clear that it is poison for such an industry, and that is why it is now that we have to act. And there I think the Radical Left should appear as a responsible governing party and try to gather the wings here. 'Cause I'm experiencing a little bit that there's a lot of tricks in this, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141402	Well, I sincerely thank the rapporteur for the expectations he has of my party and of me. However, if we look at such more partisan considerations, I basically believe that by far, by far, most parties in the Folketing agree with the ambition to promote electric carism, but also in doing what we are doing here, namely to extend the tax exemption. So, although I understand the concern of Mr. Henning Hyllested, but also in the industry, I actually believe that there should be enormous support to do this, regardless of who is in power if there is a parliamentary election before that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141448	Torsten Schack Pedersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141449	I took note of the fact that the radical rapporteur said that the challenge must be met. I am grateful for the clear answer, because it is an admission that it has not been resolved now because no funding has been found. A great deal can be said about the Radicals, but there is usually a good honesty about how reality is lumped together, and I would like to sign for that. But will the rapporteur not admit that security will be created if the government calls for negotiations now, so that an agreement can be reached even before the summer holiday, instead of a late night hour over in the Ministry of Finance, that this might be financed together with all the other unpaid bills?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141540	Thank you again for what I regard as a praise. Obviously, there are two parts to this. The first part is that we announce that we will come up with a solution, that we will extend the tax exemption. The other half is about getting funding, and I am quite sure that we will solve that, as we usually do when it comes to giving priority to the large household budget. In fact, I think this whole concept of convening negotiations is a little oversold. I believe that, whether it is the VK government or what kind of government is on the blue side, or whether it is a social democratic government, there is a move towards the Finance Act, where there are different wishes and there are different things that you would like to have financed, and then you get the funding. Having said that this is very important for us close to heart blood for us, we will of course also find the funding. But yes, it is a challenge that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141651	I am glad that it is clear that no funding has been found. It's with the other things. I would like to know whether the radical rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is present. Nadeem Farooq, can unveil this phase-in announced by the government: How long does the government intend to go from a full tax exemption to full implementation of electric and hydrogen vehicles in the current tax system?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141718	Sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141721	Now we take one challenge at a time. The first is about on the back of the tax minister's very good announcement yesterday to solve the challenge of funding. Once we have done so, we have a little better time to consider different models of phasing-in or phasing-out depending on how you look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141744	Thank you to Nadeem Farooq as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Then we're gonna have a ride back in order, and then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430141758	Thank you. And I'm glad I could help, sir. Nadeem Farooq. After all, this proposal is about Enhedslisten asking the government to extend the tax exemption for electric cars by 4 years. After all, the background is quite real, because the tax exemption, as it stands today, will end at the turn of the year, which means that the electric cars will go from 0 per cent to 0 per cent. to a levy of 180%. After all, the current exemption is something that was agreed with the 2012 tax reform and it was financed by a countervailing charge on diesel cars. It was a tax reform that was not part of the Danish People's Party, and we also voted against it because of the funding. But it is undoubtedly true that the price of electric cars will rise a great deal if you get such a huge increase in taxation from one day to the next, and that will obviously destroy the market because you do not know what price you are going to pay, yes, you do if we do not do something. But the government's solution, I must also say, does not remedy that problem, because it has to be resolved only in a financial law that will be adopted at the end of the year. And as Mr. Henning Hyllested has also pointed out in his questions, it does not create the calm that the industry would like to have. On the other hand, I have to say that if a temporary exemption is made already now, I do not really think it provides the very best framework conditions that could possibly be desired, because this is a short-term solution that the government has announced. What is needed is precisely a more general shift in vehicle taxes and, more generally, a change which is more technically based, taking into account a number of parameters. It could be fuel consumption, it could be noise, it could be safety and it could be a number of other parameters that could apply. There the electric cars would also naturally be able to stay on the positive list and thus may not get rid of 0 per cent. in tax, but at least get rid of very cheaply in line with other environmentally friendly technologies such as, among other things. hybrid cars, which could of course also be a technology which it would be useful to promote. Because you have to remember that it is not necessarily just electric cars. The good thing about the solution, that is to get it into a general change, is that we get a solution that is more technology-neutral, so that it is not us here in the Danish Parliament who have to sit and use the English expression "pick the winners," that is to say, choose the winning technologies. I don't think that's a good way to do that. I would like to say that what I am calling for is indeed something that was originally in the government base, where it had been said that this general shift in vehicle taxes would be made. It was then that it seems now at least a promise that could not be kept, because we are now, I think, so close to a choice that it does not come on this side of the election. However, as regards yesterday's government announcement, where they wish to temporarily exempt electric cars from registration fees, I think that is quite a fine statement, but it is a purely free round when there is no funding. You refer to a financial law which will be adopted in the autumn, and that is not something that can be used for anything in the industry now. I also noticed on TV 2 News yesterday that the industry itself was also out to say that this does not provide the stability that one would like to have. So I think it is a pity and a pity that we are simply referring to a financial law which will only come later. In conclusion, the Danish People's Party cannot support this specific proposal because of the funding that we did not agree with in 2012. I can also understand from the tax minister that that money is not in the box at all now as an available amount. And then I would say that we would rather see a more permanent solution being found with a change in car taxes, so that electricity cars and other environmentally friendly technologies could be put into the ordinary tax system and thus a slightly longer-term solution instead of this stop and go system that we now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142158	Mr President, first of all, I should like to make a brief comment. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142204	I agree, of course, that it would be preferable for there to be a major solution, a restructuring of the whole tax system, which was sustainable for a long time. These are and will be patch solutions. The Enhedslisten's B proposal is a smaller patch than the government's proposal, which in many ways I think is a big patch that really doesn't solve so damn much. However, I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party will be involved in a report, it could be that instructs the government to convene negotiations on this, to submit a financing proposal and to have it done before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142253	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142255	I can answer that briefly: yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142259	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142303	Let me just start by saying that we agree on the desire for a permanent solution. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party probably also took note of this when he tells us that he has read and taken note of the report from the tax minister. So I would actually just like to ask the same very simple question that I also put to the rapporteur of the Left. It is a question that can be resolved with a yes or no answer, namely whether the Danish People's Party also wants to extend the tax exemption in 2016: Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142337	Now it is not a simple yes or no question. We are fully in favour of trying to create a tax system that favours environmentally friendly cars, and electric cars are clearly one of them, but it is a free round on the part of the government to come and point out that it will when there is no funding. I have also noted in the debate that it has been said so far that if no one negotiates it out of the Finance Act, then there is funding. Could it not also be suggested that all taxes on cars and petrol should be abolished? It's $43 billion. kr., and if no one shows up and negotiates it out of a bill of finance, then it's funded. Of course it is not, and that argument is quite clear. So it does not make any sense, and that is why it is not a simple yes or no question, that is, when the government itself does not even have funding in place in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142420	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142422	It is now a rather simple yes or no question. And should there be a government that could see that they could obtain funding of 43 billion. kr. in their own financial law proposal to abolish taxes or not to finance the Danish public school. It's an amount of the same amount we're talking about, it's always a government's option to do so. So that was a strange example. Well, now we have a government that says that they are going to put forward a financial bill where there is funding to extend the tax exemption by one year, in other words in 2016. And the simple question to the Danish People's Party, which we did not get an answer to before, but which we may be able to get an answer to now, is: Does the Danish People's Party want to provide the security and security that both the car industry, the electric car industry, and consumers have both the public, municipalities and regions, but indeed the private individuals have requested, by extending the tax exemption by 2016? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142518	We all saw that a general change was made, bringing electric cars into the ordinary tax system. However, as my reply to the Enhedslisten also showed, we would like the government to call for negotiations. That is why I replied very clearly yes to Enhedslisten questioning whether to make a report which requires the government to call for negotiations so that we could find funding for it here and resolve it now instead of waiting until November. There is also an indirect 'yes' to Mrs Astrid Krag's question. I wonder why the government cannot say a clear 'yes' to the Enhedslisten. After all, we must find a solution now, because we will not find a solution until November. For as Mr. Henning Hyllested has said several times in the debate so far: if you buy a car in August or October, or when it should be, sometime in autumn, yes, then you have no idea what you are getting from the tax. You only get the car delivered sometime next year, and then you get 0 percent. in tax, or you get 180 per cent. So from what the government has said, we have no solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142625	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430142648	The discussion about the electric cars has been going on for some time now. There have been consultations, which have been asked Article 20 questions, and finally last November it was for some reason the Minister for Climate and Energy who was out to say that he would call the parties' rapporteurs for negotiations. That was very good, because then we had put pressure on for a while; so it was good to hear. When we started to get a good deal into the spring, we were wondering if it was after New Year 2016 or 2017 which New Year was now being discussed. Now there's a report from the government. An announcement is good, but it does not provide any certainty for the industry, because we may have a completely different government in the autumn of which, in any case, the Left has said very clearly that they will not say a clear 'yes' to any particular form of financing, and we also have some government parties who say that they will finance it through the Finance Act. Perhaps we could find that out, I just think it is not fair, because the government's basis clearly states that a large and comprehensive reform of car taxes is to be implemented, which must be revenue-neutral and which must promote a greener car park in Denmark. We all agree that transport accounts for a large part of CO2 emissions Then there may be different methods of performing the different models. From the SF's point of view, we have not attached ourselves to a final model. We think it should be a model that can ensure that electric cars get a foothold, but of course not in the future. It could also be a model that differentiated between luxury electric cars and ordinary electric cars; there are many ways to do so. One way to find out what we could agree on was to keep to the promise made in November and to call us for negotiations. In this way, we would have been able to test some of the parties that are not going to say 'yes' or 'no' today and create a guarantee and find some funding that lived up to the government base in terms of it being found within the tax system. Because if we are forced into the fact that the best possible solution is to find the money in the Finance Act, it is almost half a billion who have to be found on a Finance Act with a very small margin of manoeuvre. We know that there will be a lot of money to go from something else, instead of meeting the objective that many of us, including the government, have repeated over and over again, namely that the most reasonable thing is that the cars that make the most of them must contribute a little more, so that those who are less or less deceiving can benefit. So I will not go into the specific proposals of the Enhedslisten and say whether it should be 4 years or whether it should be a few years. I fully acknowledge the spirit of the Enhedslisten's proposal, and I also hear from the rapporteurs that it is a solution now and here that is important. Whether it is just a few years or four years, or whether it is 100 per cent tax exemption or some kind of phasing-in, SF supports what is the spirit of the proposal, namely that we need to find a solution here and now so that we can secure funding and can have a security for the industry and for those who are considering buying an electric car.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143035	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143055	The electric cars are today exempt from registration duty, and that is what the Liberal Alliance believes to be the case for all cars. There should be no registration fee in Denmark, nor is it necessary to finance the costs that society has for driving cars on the roads. They total 17 billion. kr., and we charge three times as many taxes from people by car in Denmark. So the registration fee can be finely abolished. So we do not want there to be a registration fee for electric cars either. It is funded in our 2025 plan, so there are no cow on the ice; the money fits and there is a surplus of 2.5 billion. kr. in our plan. But we do not support duty-free electric cars at all costs. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If we did this by raising taxes at work, we would not support it. If this were done by raising the tax on other cars, we would not be supporting it either. We also voted against in this Parliament when it decided to raise a tax for owners of diesel cars in order to finance a tax exemption for electric cars. We believe that people with diesel cars and people with petrol cars are paying too much in taxes today, and we do not want them to be subject to even more charges to finance free electric cars. That is why we have to say that it is good to continue tax-free electric cars. It is a step on the way to tax-free all cars. However, we cannot support a proposal in which, for example, funding is provided. comes from tax increases for other cars. It will then end up in our situation that we will probably abstain from voting on this proposal. We would like to vote in favour of the tax exemption for electric cars, but we will not vote in favour of it being financed through tax increases for other car owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143256	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143258	I have, of course, tried a little bit in this question round to make a little effort to succeed, among other things. to convince the government, but also in general, that it was appropriate to convene some political negotiations and to try to see if this could be put in place. I can almost hear you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, that a condition for the Liberal Alliance to take part in this discussion was that virtually all other parties would then have to accept the total funding that the Liberal Alliance has in their proposal to abolish the registration fee altogether. I just want to ask, does the Liberal Alliance not expect that? Is it not prepared to engage in such a very specific discussion on the tax exemption for electric cars, whether for one year or four years, and to try to find funding for it? I fully agree that there may be some reservations about what you want to do about it. But I almost heard it as if the condition was for the whole of the Liberal Alliance to be accepted on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143408	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143411	There Mr. Henning Hyllested so wrong, because I didn't say that. It is not necessary to approve the whole of the 2025 plan of the Liberal Alliance in order to get the Liberal Alliance to extend the tax exemption on electric cars. So we're happy to come to negotiations. But we do not want to finance a tax exemption for electric cars by raising taxes and taxes for others. So money must be found in public spending or elsewhere in public expenditure, and if you can find that money there, for example. By not increasing as much as they would otherwise have done, the Liberal Alliance is included.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143451	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143453	I totally agree with that. It is clear that the Liberal Alliance will have some preconditions for entering into a debate. We have some other conditions, of course we do, but that is not the aim in the first place either, because it is to have the political debate at all, and then we have to separate the sheep from the goats. That is what political negotiations are all about, and then you have to see if you can achieve anything, who will be involved in what. And that was like what the political debate was supposed to clarify, and there I understand that the Liberal Alliance is also fully committed to it. So I also hope that perhaps we will be able to make a report in which we are actually instructing the government to convene those negotiations. Then the government can jump up and fall on it if they want, but that's at least a signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143533	Yeah, I think we'd like to be a part of that, I could imagine. But I haven't discussed it with my group yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143543	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Brian Mikkelsen for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143552	The Conservative People's Party would like to discuss the tax exemption for electric cars. We think, however, that it should be put into a wider context where we will also be discussing other propellants: how to create a whole palette of different initiatives to make it cheaper to buy cars in Denmark, so that the Danish family will have the opportunity to get some better and more environmentally friendly and safer cars that we can get on the roads? It is clear that the matter here has taken a turn following the government's announcement yesterday that, as one of many promises, we will be helping to tax-free the electric cars next year. It's a rather strange situation. We have a government that says they want to get to grips with this issue, but they don't give an address on how to get funding for it, and they don't say how they're going to solve it. They have not even solved it, although they could have called for some negotiations. At any rate, we are not in my party, the Conservatives, being called for a debate on the tax exemption for electric cars. We would have liked to have discussed this and also found funding for it. We cannot support the Enhedslisten proposal. We think it is a good idea to discuss it. We believe in concrete terms that the electric cars should also be exempt from duty next year. We will do so as part of a major shift in registration fees, which we have outlined from the Conservative People's Party, where cars are becoming cheaper. There we also take the tax exemption for electric cars into that calculation. So we think it is necessary to have a look at it, but we cannot vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal, which binds the economy over the next four years and does not provide funding for the tax-free use of electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143736	Then is a brief question from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143740	It was nice to hear clear words from the blue bloc for the first time in this debate, I just want to be absolutely sure that I heard the Conservative rapporteur correctly. Since it is now part of the 2016 Finance Bill from the government, i.e. the extension of the tax exemption, do we have the support of the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143801	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143802	The challenge of the government's proposal is precisely that it is rather strange, and we have only experienced that from this government. I have certainly not seen a government stand up and say that it is making a proposal for which it does not have a certain amount of funding and which has not been negotiated at all with the parties of the Folketing. It is very similar to the promises made by S and SF before the last parliamentary elections, where most people fortunately for the economy did not come into existence. But it is also reminiscent of the promises made by the present government while it has been in government, where it has been established that at least some things had happened, but where we saw so relatively quickly that they had not materialised. That is what one can fear will happen with the promise made by the government to the electric car industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143847	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143849	Then I didn't have to worry more than that about the constructive tones of Conservatives. Then we're back in the blue block with the usual song about breakage etc. I know you collect points on some board every time you can mention it. This is how I have the clear impression that it is in the Left, and it might sound as if Conservatives are here too. And then I'm just a little confused. Does this mean that the Conservatives will come forward and negotiate the extension of the tax exemption out of the Finance Act, since it is now part of the overall Government Finance Act, including funding? Or do you think it's important that it's included? I'm not quite sure. I could hear a lot of scolding at the government for a lot of things I don't agree with, but that's not what we're discussing. We are discussing the concrete nature of a financial bill which includes where it is financed, where there is the security and certainty that the tax exemption will be extended by one year. Are you Conservative on that yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143943	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430143944	Now we are discussing the Enhedslisten's proposal, and Enhedslisten's proposal cannot be supported because it binds the economy over the next four years and no funding has been found for it. We in the Conservatives are then saying that we think it is a good idea to extend the tax exemption so that we get the market going. We will do so as part of a major change in the registration fee, where we bring the electric cars, and we finance it and we have funded it in our presentation. That's what we find the government can't and won't do. They have not found funding for their wishes and their demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144019	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144023	Well, it's kind of the case that Mr. After all, Brian Mikkelsen declares his willingness to come to some political negotiations if they are called in. But I also hear that what you want to contribute to the negotiations is that you want to have a major restructuring of the entire car tax system. Well, all the parties in here will. We also have a lot of proposals for restructuring the entire vehicle tax system. Is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen does not agree with me that if we now all, each of us, each of us sets up with all our car packages, that will certainly not happen? And then we have not eliminated the uncertainty that exists in the car industry at the moment, for the industry as well as for car buyers, and that was just like the whole purpose of today's debate. So I'm gonna ask mr. Brian Mikkelsen, if you're not out there, in fact, blocking constructive negotiations in this game?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144126	No, I don't think so. I also think that the Enhedslisten proposal that we are debating today is constructive, because it puts the electric cars, the registration tax and the tax exemption on the agenda. But that requires negotiations, and I can at least say that the Conservative People's Party has not been called for any negotiations, and as I have heard from other rapporteurs, they have not been called for any negotiations either. So it should be some parties outside the Folketing that have been called for negotiations. It may be that it is the alternative that has been called for negotiations in the Danish Parliament............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There are certainly no parties in this House who have been called for negotiations. And that is the first step that needs to be taken in order to see if this tax exemption can be extended.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144209	Sir. Henning Hyllested for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144211	But then I almost hear that the Conservative People's Party wants to be a part of the Conservative Party, for example. a report which I have previously proposed in the question-making round in here, in which we are, like us, trying to impose on the Minister that some negotiations are being convened. And then I can only call on the parties not to put up with their huge car packages, which we each have, because then it will not lead anywhere. But there needs to be a debate, which, of course, as I said before, separates the sheep from the goats. That is what political negotiations are all about and then we have to see what that leads to and whether we can create security in the electric car industry by that means.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144248	We shall look very constructively at the idea of a report from the committee. We now need to see the final text. However, we think it is necessary for negotiations to be convened and for clarification to be given as to what the electricity industry has to expect in the years to come. So it would be a good idea for this to be clarified in committee as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144309	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430144328	It is no wonder that today's debate has come to be about the government, if I may say so, playing out at the last minute with what we have long been waiting for and have been pushing for, and that is fair enough. That was, it might be said, part of the purpose of the motion for a resolution, namely to get the government on the ground. That is what we have come to, and we can then discuss it again in today's debate. How good it is and whether it creates the security that needs to be achieved in the industry. There should be no doubt that the proposal has just been put forward, partly in order, of course, to support the green transformation of the transport sector, which is so necessary and which needs to be done if we are to meet the climate targets, and partly in order to clarify the uncertainty of the industry and the buyers of electric cars. After all, we know that the transport sector has long been the single largest source of CO2 in Denmark. In fact, emissions have fallen from households, energy production, industry, etc. because of a very, very conscious effort and the rate of green technology, including among other things: wind turbines, but we also know that emissions have risen from the transport sector in exactly the same way and that cars play the crucial role here. I must remind you that the government's basis in the past laid the foundations for the following and I quote: Transport is the cause of a significant proportion of Denmark's total CO2 2 In addition to particles, NO x It is necessary to reduce pollution from the transport sector, including the need for lower CO2 That is absolutely correct. It is also true that something has happened that has actually been done a lot of action during this government period, and Enhedslisten has been a warm supporter of it. Public transport has been strengthened, but restrictions on car traffic have not been implemented on a very large scale, if at all. I would almost say quite the opposite. The government period began by dropping the congestion ring, which had been a means here, dropping the driving charges on trucks, the reform of vehicle taxes has not been completed, we are now discussing a very, very small chunk of it, and we have to say that one of the means that very many people are pointing to, including a number of commissions, the media catalogue from the Ministry of Energy, etc. etc., i.e. driving fees, road pricing, have been poured down the board by the government the three or four times it has been proposed. We have to note that electric car sales are still weak, although it has been slightly increasing here from 2013 to 2014 and probably also this year, but it still represents less than 1%. of total car sales. It was also this recognition that led to the tax exemption that was found back in 2010 and that is the period that was extended until 2015 and when 650 million were found. kr. to finance it from, i.e. from the countervailing charge on diesel. The increase in sales over the last few years shows to some extent that there is potential in this industry, and you can also compare it with the extent of car sales in Norway, where you are far, far higher, but also because you have to support it. No registration fees are paid, no VAT is paid, no toll is paid, no parking charges are paid for electric cars in Norway. So, of course, it has been a factor in the fact that car sales in Norway are quite much bigger than they are in Denmark. At the same time, we see that there are new models here. After all, we see lower prices and it is clear with the development of the electric car industry and we also see more and more mature technology. In the proposal we have referred to this in the debate we are, of course, operating with a four-year tax exemption, and that is of course because we want to help ensure safety for the conditions in the industry, safety for car buyers, and also help to ensure a stable development of technology, security for investment, not least in the infrastructure in the form of charging stalls and charging booths and such things. And there we actually think that 4 years is nothing too much in reality, and we may think that 1 year is below the threshold, because you can't offer it to the industry. There were not many other industries that would live with knowing only a time horizon of one year. We think that the proposal that has come from the government is somewhat like an act of panic. Now the conditions should be unsolved in this way until the Finance Act negotiations in October and November, i.e. the Finance Act for 2016. I would like to point out, as I have done in the debate, that there is a long delivery time for these cars, and the registration fee is therefore paid on delivery. So you can be in the situation that when you book your car in October you will pay perhaps 185%. in March, when you get the car delivered. It should also be borne in mind that electric cars fall completely outside the scope of the current law on registration fees, so this really means that electric cars are going to be subject to a fire tax compared with, for example, the United Kingdom. cars driving 16 km/l, which will receive a deduction of DKK 4,000. in the registration fee and then 4,000 DKK. For every mile you drive over 10 miles. This means that a car that drives 25 km/l today, and there is actually quite a lot of them, which means a deduction of DKK 36 000. The electric cars fall completely outside the system because in the time when the law was created, of course, enough, one can say that the technology expressed by the electric cars has been taken into account. We think it is an obscene treatment of an industry which will make a major contribution to the green transition which the government then sings loudly in the transport sector, and on the one hand we would urge the Minister not only to sit back and look at what the parliamentary elections bring, what the forthcoming financial negotiations bring, but to say: we are putting forward a financial bill in which this is included. The Minister knows just as well as I do that a financial bill debate is a total negotiation of the whole So we believe that we are leaving the industry in the uncertainty that we had to face, which was the purpose of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. So now call the parties for a debate, I say to the Minister. After all, the parties here have given an undertaking that they would like to participate in this. It is clear that different assumptions are made, but then what? The Minister could then use it to separate the sheep from the goats, just as I said, and then we will know whether people really want to be there. That's why you have to decide what we've put forward without really knowing what it is. This will be clarified in a debate and could therefore also be strengthened by a debate and say: these parties will be involved in this type of financing. It will be very strong, it would also be strong in an election campaign, I would say to the Minister, and we are facing that. So I would call for us in committee here to try to gather together on some kind of report, in which we are instructed to instruct the government to try to convene a debate, and then we will have to discuss things, the funding and who will be involved in what, and then we will have to try to clarify it by summer so that the electric car industry knows where it stands at least one year ahead of time, at least in 2016. It's still not good enough, it's still gone too uncertain, but it's better than nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430145247	Thank you to the rapporteur, sir. Henning Hylllested. As no one else wanted to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430145309	The debate has been opened and the Minister for Tax is the first to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430145336	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance has put forward a proposal to reduce the registration fee by 1%. and finance the reduction of the petrol and diesel tax by 1%. Car taxes are indeed high in this country, but they have now fallen considerably in recent years. The revenue for the registration fee is currently approx. 8 billion. kr. lower than it was in 2007, and that is, although the sale of cars has been record high for the last 4-5 years. I think it was not quite intended when the previous government changed the registration fee that this should happen, but I think it is quite reasonable that Danish drivers, among other things, should do so. contribute to the financing of roads and, for example, to the financing of public transport. I also think it is reasonable that they help to pay for the costs for the environment, for the climate and for the health of drivers. Driving leads to CO2 emissions It is true that the Danish car taxes are overall high when we compare with other countries, but exactly the taxes on petrol and diesel, which are also some of the things mentioned in the proposal, are actually lower in Denmark than they are, for example, in Sweden and Germany. The tax on petrol in Denmark is only slightly above the average rates across the EU, while the diesel tax is largely on the EU average. When the prices of petrol and diesel in Denmark are at or above prices in Sweden and Germany, this is not due to higher Danish taxes, but to higher costs and profit margins in Denmark. It is the assessment that foreigners cross-border trade more fuel in Denmark than we cross-border trade fuel abroad. And foreigners would probably cross-border trade more in Denmark if the margins on fuel were not so high in this country. The high vehicle taxes in Denmark are mainly due to the high registration fee. The high tax contributes to fewer cars and to smaller cars, and that benefits the climate, the environment and health. A general reduction in the registration fee, as well as in petrol and diesel taxes, should therefore also be expected to lead to more cars, to larger cars and to more driving. This will increase our emissions of CO2 It is also to be expected to lead to more accidents and more congestion, and this goes against our general objectives in climate and environmental matters. I would also like to point out the myth that cars in Denmark should be significantly older than cars in the countries with which we usually compare ourselves. In the other Nordic countries, including Sweden, the average age of the car park is e.g. higher than in Denmark. The average age of cars in Denmark has been decreasing in recent years, and at the same time we can see that there is a large increase in the number of newly registered passenger cars, while the car park has not grown to the same extent. It points out that there is a large replacement of the oldest cars with new cars at the moment and that in many cases it is worth replacing an old car with a new one. It hangs, among other things. together with the fact that we have a car tax system that has built in strong economic incentives to choose cars with a low CO2 although the registration fee is high, it has been decreasing in recent years, among other things. in view of the reductions made in the fuel economy, which, together with technological developments, have helped to improve energy efficiency and, overall, contributed to a decrease. New and energy-efficient cars therefore have a major competitive advantage. The Environmental Economic Council, to which the proposers refer, also concluded in their 2013 report that for the smallest cars fuel taxes correspond roughly to the cost of driving. I do not think there is a need for further reductions in car charges than those which are automatically built in the form of an incentive to choose the most fuel efficient cars, and certainly not a general reduction of 1%. As regards the financing of the proposal, the proposers state that a 1% reduction in the petrol and diesel tax. According to the Department of Taxation's own calculations, the reduction in registration fees can be financed by 1%. In this context, the proposers refer to a reply to the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee delivered in June 2013. However, the self-financing rate for both the registration fee and the fuel charges has been updated since then on the basis of more recent data bases. The Danish Parliament's Tax Committee is also informed about this. And with the current estimate of the level of self-financing, the proposal would not be self-financing. A 1% reduction in diesel and petrol taxes. It also means that the so-called countervailing charge on diesel cars must be reduced by 1% if the balance between taxes on diesel and petrol vehicles is to be maintained, and this results in a further reduction in revenue. However, there is uncertainty about the calculations and self-financing rates, and this also illustrates the updates. But no matter what, lower taxes are expected to lead to more cars and more driving. This is against the government's objectives in the climate and environment sectors, and the government cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430145936	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430145940	The Minister of Taxation says that car owners in Denmark must help to pay the costs to society of driving cars: there are accidents, there are pollution, there are traffic, there are wear and tear on the roads, etc. I fully agree with that; it is a reasonable user charge. They certainly do. According to the Environmental Economic Council, it costs 17 billion. kr. to have cars on the roads, but the taxes levied by the car owners are three times as large, almost. It is, of course, a rather wild overtaxation, and the Environmental Economic Council says that it would be best if we generally had lower car taxes in Denmark, so that it matched the cost that car owners impose on society. Then we had these figures from the Ministry of Taxation from 2013, which showed that there would be 30 million. kr. more in the box by reducing the diesel and petrol tax by 1% and that it would cost only 5 million. kr. to reduce the registration fee by 1%. It must be clear today, even if the government has changed some computational assumptions. Has it become the case that lowering the tax on petrol and diesel no longer makes profits in the Treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150056	Thank you. Well, as I said, the Tax Committee has already received the updated figures on it, and that does not change the fact that there is no full self-financing in those proposals. So, however sympathetic it may be that the Liberal Alliance has some desire to change some taxes, it has to be said that exactly the funding that is pointed out is at least not sustainable. That is also what I have been through in my speech just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150128	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150130	Has it ceased to be self-financing, to reduce fuel and diesel taxes in Denmark? Has it stopped giving more money in the Treasury to lower the tax on petrol and diesel in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150143	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150144	There is a lower level of self-financing compared to the self-financing rate indicated in the answer to question 231. Among other things, it has to be done. In view of the fact that the calculations were updated and consolidated in response to some other questions, namely questions 608 to the general part and questions 296 and 304 to the general part. The calculations have been updated again in connection with this motion for a resolution, and there are among others. A new projection of the future consumption of petrol and diesel and an indexation of the rates, which will change from year to year. The conclusion is therefore that there is a different funding from that provided by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150223	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150227	I would just like to know briefly whether the Minister of Taxation cannot tell us what the self-financing rate is then on the petrol and diesel tax and whether it is still over 100?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150241	This is clear from the answers to the questions which have already been sent to the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150248	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150253	Thank you. But now I ask the tax minister whether he can mention in this Chamber whether the level of self-financing is above 100 on the tax in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150300	I'll be happy to send the answers over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150306	Then there are no more questions for the Minister. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150324	After all, it is no secret that Danish drivers pay very high taxes. It is more than 40 billion a year. The Danish drivers spit in the box. It is either through registration fee, weight tax, green ownership tax, petrol and diesel tax, or what else is of many, many taxes that affect drivers. If you are in the situation of taxation that taxes are very, very high, then there is indeed a risk or possibility that a tax has become so high that if you lower the tax rate, revenue can actually increase. That is popularly said what is called the luffer basket, which shows that if you have a zero tax rate, you get no revenue, and if you have a tax rate of 100, the activity stops, and then nothing gets into the tax either. And somewhere in between there is then a peak where you get the maximum revenue from a given tax rate. What is the problem is, of course, if the tax rates are so high that revenue is lower than if the tax rate is reduced. It is not unknown that we have established it. That has been a few years ago, but I have been involved in dealing with a legislative proposal in the Parliamentary Assembly, where we reduced a rate of packaging tax and budgeted to get more money simply because the tax rate was too high and by lowering the tax rate we actually received a higher revenue. This is the same problem that the motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance is attacking, and with the references in the proposal, the self-financing rate of the registration fee is 95 per cent. This means that if the figures are up to the believers now the tax minister says that there are more recent figures, and we must get that fully lit up then it is a very, very small loss of revenue that will be reducing the registration fee by a single percentage, namely 5 million. kr. And, on the other hand, if you reduce the petrol and diesel tax by 1%, compared to the response referred to in the resolution, there is a self-financing rate of 115%. and thus an additional revenue. Now we understand that the tax minister has made some updates, and we must then look into them and ask what the assumptions are. In any case, it would be surprising to me if it were to be a completely sharp condition that a reduction in, for example, the petrol and diesel tax should lead to the countervailing charge also having to be adjusted. I do not think that the balance will change dramatically by reducing both the petrol and diesel tax by 1%. without also addressing the countervailing charge. But we must ask about all this and look at it during the committee work. For on the Left side, we at least think that thinking is enticing. If we can reduce tax rates, albeit to a modest extent, and at the same time note that there will be the same or perhaps even more money in the treasury, then it is clear that we will of course take a positive view of this. That is why we hope that we will have some updated calculations and clarify the conditions that have been put in and, in particular, whether the conditions for the issues referred to by the Liberal Alliance in the motion for a resolution have changed and why. But on the basis of the basic idea that there is an opportunity to reduce taxes and duties simply to obtain additional revenue, there must be extremely serious reasons not to do so. There is no doubt that, even if the level of self-financing was very high, tobacco taxes would be reduced. For there are also other conditions that apply, namely that the price should be so high that people refrain from smoking. It can have meaning. But the fact that there are some derived effects in this proposal that should jump into the eye violently, I find it very, very difficult to imagine. So basically, we think that this is a sympathetic proposal from the Liberal Alliance, which we very much welcome. We will therefore, of course, follow the matter very closely so that we can get these figures updated with the latest assumptions, and if they are about as it is now, then it is very, very difficult to make good arguments as to why we should not make this modest reduction and, at the same time, have an unchanged revenue and perhaps even get a little extra revenue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150829	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150834	That's right for Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen's remark that it was difficult to see any derived effects of this proposal. I can now see at least one: more cars. I guess more cars will be sold if you lower the price. It's a farmer's economy. It means more cars on the roads, it means more congestion, it means more climate stress. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen himself said that, for example, there was a need for a better understanding of the situation. In the case of tobacco taxes, other factors could have been the case. In my view, there is at least one aspect of reducing vehicle taxes, namely that it leads to many, many more cars on our roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430150923	I don't think a reduction of 1%. is going to move things violently. It could also be said that this might lead to the Danes buying a slightly better car, buying a car with a little more equipment that might be a little safer, and perhaps even buying a car with an even better engine that was even more fuel efficient. That might just as well be the case. But I do not think that a reduction of 1%. of the registration tax and the tax on petrol and diesel suddenly revolutionise the Danish car market. This would certainly only mean that the Danes could get a little more for their money, and we find it very interesting that people have a little better consumption opportunities. We certainly think this is a noble cause to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151006	Sir. Henning Hyllested for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151009	I understand that better consumption opportunities do not apply to those who smoke. There you can come in with some behavioral regulation. I mean, 1%. Here and 1%. There. The Liberal Alliance rapporteur made it very clear in his question that this is really just the first part of a proposal to abolish registration tax altogether. Even if I don't have to take sir too. Torsten Schack Pedersen for income for it, I guess it's just some kind of beginning. It's the principle that counts. Cheaper cars will also lead to more cars on our roads after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151055	I find it difficult to argue that we should not make it possible for the Danes perhaps to buy a slightly better car, get a little extra equipment, make it a little more comfortable in a way that does not cost the Treasury money, but as maybe we'll have to see when we get the completely updated figures. So I have to say that I do not think this proposal will change the distribution of cars and the kilometres travelled. But I think it could make some Danes, some drivers, get a little more air in the economy and, when they had to buy a new car, as I said, could have the opportunity to buy one that was just a little better, safer and more comfortable. I think that is also a noble objective to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151142	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, rapporteur for the Left. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151151	Bilism, mobility, transport, being able to get around fills a lot. This is true both in the Danes' daily lives and in the debate. Today's meeting is an excellent example of how we dealt recently with the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution on the protection of electric cars and now discusses the Liberal Alliance's motion for a resolution which takes more account of conventional cars operating on petrol or diesel. The Socialists recognise that mobility is a prerequisite for growth and that private carism is an integral part of our infrastructure and our lifestyle and something that is quite necessary in large parts of the country in order to do its job and live its life. At the same time, we face a climate challenge and an environmental problem that forces us to rethink our habits and constantly seek to optimise our infrastructure and our lifestyle, so that we also leave a planet for our children and grandchildren, which we can be familiar with. That is why we have an approach to taxes on cars, infrastructure and public transport in general, driven by pragmatic considerations rather than ideology. The aim is to ensure the best mobility for the Danes without compromising either the environment or the economy. The Liberal Alliance's proposal here will require the government to reduce registration fees and taxes on petrol and diesel by 1%. Each one. They believe that this could be done largely free of charge, and this is justified by figures from the 2012-13 Assembly, which state that the reduction of charges will be self-financing. There were temporary new, updated figures already in the same Assembly, which indicated some other degrees of self-financing if the charges were reduced. According to the updated figures, lowering taxes on registration and on petrol and diesel would not be without cost to the Treasury. The answers came to me at the request of the Left, which is why it is a little wonder that the rapporteur of the Left is here today pretending to be some new, updated figures. They came shortly after the figures on which the Liberal Alliance based their resolution, and I know that it was actually on the initiative of a question from the Left that the new figures came. But all right, it is fair enough that the Left must find out which leg to stand on when they continue the list, which is about to be long, of tax reliefs, they have either been positive towards or have undertaken to deliver if they are to win the government. So we have to see it as part of it that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen chooses to be as accommodating as he is to the proposal of the Liberal Alliance when he should at the same time know that the funding is not there. In addition, I would like to say that I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Henning Hyllested in that the two measures in the motion for a resolution will lead to more cars on the roads and to more driving if it is implemented. It will mean more pollution, and it will mean greater CO2 Social Democrats support the government's objective that Denmark should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. After all, we are well on the way to energy efficiency improvements and the conversion of energy supply, but the transport sector is a challenge. Therefore, it does not make sense for us to support a proposal that will lead to more greenhouse gas emissions from cars, and that makes even less sense when the proposal is unfunded. That is why the Socialists cannot support the proposal, and I should like to say from my radical colleague, who is unable to take part in the debate right now, that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151519	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151524	After all, it is very difficult as an opposition politician to have the latest figures when the latest figures have been drawn up in connection with the resolution we have tabled here. I understood from the tax minister that as recently as the Ministry was working on this resolution, the figures were revised. However, how could we have obtained these last revised figures before we tabled the motion for a resolution? We couldn't. But that does not change the fact that we think this is a good proposal, and it has to be said that if there is a small lack of funding in it, we can only find the money in the Finance Act in the next negotiations. We know that the government would like to do so, which is why we can expect the government to be able to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151614	If, however, there are some completely brand new figures from the tax minister, which we have not yet received in committee, then I am quite sure that the Minister will be very happy to pass them on during the committee procedure. Then I would like to say that the figures I referred to and I can correct, because I have the question here with me was in an answer to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, so it was not for the Left's own rapporteur. I can see that he has begun the search and I am worried that he is suffering from an early form of dementia and cannot remember whether he himself has asked the question, but I can clarify that it is not so. However, the rapporteur of the Left has had the opportunity to read them, because these answers were given as early as December 2012. So perhaps there are some new figures with an even more up-to-date basis that show even more clearly that there is no self-financing or that there is not the self-financing that the Liberal Alliance is asking for. However, shortly after the answer on which the Liberal Alliance bases its resolution, answers were given to the Committee on Taxation, which showed that self-financing was no longer available. However, as I said, I am sure the Minister will be happy to pass on the latest figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151715	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151716	The figures on which this resolution is based are from June 2013, so December 2012 figures are older than these figures. But in any case, we can see that we have asked the tax minister whether there has been no revenue for the Treasury from the reduction of petrol and diesel taxes, and he has not been able to answer that from the platform. This is a bit difficult, I have to say, but when there is such a high level of self-financing, one should in any case avoid charging taxes. I mean, a degree of self-financing, for example. 90% That means that every time you get 10 kroner. In the box, you destroy social welfare outside the Treasury for 100 kroner. We should not do that, and that is also the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151811	I would like to inform the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that part of this is technical, and that is why it is a good thing that we have a committee procedure to ask the Minister and therefore also the Ministry to calculate things. But I would say that if the rapporteur had listened, he would also know that there were two reasons on my part for rejecting the proposal. One was the financing and the other was that it goes against our ambition to leave a planet for children and grandchildren and to make Denmark independent of fossil fuels with a proposal that would mean more conventional cars on the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151846	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430151854	Here we have an excellent proposal from the Liberal Alliance, which is that the registration tax will be reduced by 1%. and taxes on petrol and diesel with an equivalent rate of 1%. Some will probably wonder why it is just 1% that you want to relax, and the reason why it is that the Treasury has come up with an answer which explains something about the level of self-financing by the facilitations proposed. And this shows that if the registration fee is reduced by 1%, there is a self-financing rate of 95%, which means that it costs 5 million. kr. to ease the tax by 1%. Similarly, there are some figures for petrol and diesel taxes, namely that if you reduce them by 1%, it has a self-financing rate of 115%, which results in an additional revenue of 30 million. kr. In other words, even if both taxes are reduced, there will be additional revenue in the Treasury. In the Danish People's Party we are of the opinion that you should not just charge them to collect them, and if, at the same time, there are a number of positive consequences, if you relax the two things, then it is obvious to do so. And it can be said that a lower tax on petrol strengthens mobility. This makes it easier for Danes, for example. to transport a little longer to get to work. A lower registration fee makes it a bit cheaper to buy cars, which among other things. could make it possible to buy more safe cars or newer cars with newer technology, which would make them also more environmentally friendly. I would acknowledge that this is a very marginal reduction by 1%, but that is what the trend will be. I would like to say that I think it would be a good thing if we could get more drilled in the committee's work on what these self-financing rates are, because I understand that there are some doubts as to whether these are new or old figures that we are using. But I would also like to say, with a parallel to the proposal we have just examined, that if it were to turn out that there was a negative revenue, it would just be possible, as the Liberal Alliance, to refer to the fact that we find it in the Finance Act. And if no one negotiates it out, then the proposal will be funded. That was the argument used in the previous proposal, which did not finance the reduction in registration fees for electric cars; it was simply referred to a Finance Act: if no one is negotiating it out, yes, it is financed. And you could do the same with this proposal. I would say that this cannot be done, because it does not make any sense. But it is just to point a little finger at the government, namely that the way in which they financed their own proposal on the previous item on the agenda does not make any sense. However, provided these levels of self-financing now hold water, we in the Danish People's Party can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152150	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152155	I have to say that I think DF's reports stand in all directions. Actually, I think that happens a lot. Now we've just discussed electric cars. There the DF's rapporteur said: well, we support getting more electric cars on the roads and we support phasing out fossil fuels, etc. But we also support this proposal, which means that more cars are coming on the roads. You might think that's a good thing. The Liberal Alliance is quite clear in their priorities. But I just think it's a weird announcement from DF when they just talked about the need to get more electric cars out on the roads instead of the what to say about more fuel-intensive cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152244	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152246	In fact, I did not say during the previous debate that fossil fuels should be phased out for cars. Nor did I say that the electric cars alone should be promoted. I would like us to have a general restructuring of car taxes. You could take in a lot of technical parameters where you would, of course, favour environmentally friendly cars, but it is not just electric cars. There could also be new technologies, and they could be hybrid cars. I don't think it's the Folketing that should pick the winners. If it is technologically possible to find that a diesel vehicle can drive wildly environmentally friendly and with a technology that is more efficient than other technologies, then I do not think it is I in the Folketing who should designate which car should be exempt. So I think that a general change should be made to car taxes, which introduce some technical parameters. And there will be many of these environmentally friendly cars, where the electric cars are obviously one of them, bone out positively and perhaps end up close to zero or at least with a very low tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152339	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152342	That's fair enough. One could easily make a model where it was according to technical parameters and where no specific type was mentioned. However, I still hear the rapporteur say that whether it is about gas, hydrogen or cars running much, much longer on the litre than we know it today, it is precisely in the interests of reducing the load and thus reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels. At least that is how I understood the rapporteur, and we know that if you start screwing up some of the parameters proposed by the Liberal Alliance, we will get more cars on the roads. So isn't it a bad idea if you want a whole new car system and completely new technologies?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152435	Now it's the case that people can only drive one car at a time. And I do not think that relaxing the tax by 1% means that people suddenly buy many more cars, and they can only drive in one of them. I think that this might mean buying better cars which could be more environmentally friendly. Many of the environmentally friendly cars are far more expensive than a small VW up! e.g. So it could also go the other way, namely that we actually got newer, safer and more environmentally friendly cars, rather than just buying car number two or three.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152505	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152528	You have to tell the Liberal Alliance they're clear and they're not trying to wrap things up. It's obvious to anyone in here what the Liberal Alliance wants. We can take such a different view, but I can also say very briefly that we in the SF do not support the proposal. One part of this is that there will simply be a lack of money in the box, and then I know that the follow-up remark from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen will be: Well we have figures showing a self-financing rate of 100%. or something close or maybe over 100 percent, a little depending on how you count on it. However, as far as the figures are concerned, we are looking at the cost of pollution and the cost of sick days. These are the parameters that the Environmental Economic Council is looking at. You are not looking at the fact that in the autumn we may be in a situation where we need 0.5 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which he has presented to us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. After all, the figures that the Environmental Economic Council is counting on do not take into account what we, when we have made an energy agreement, spend on making infrastructure for electric cars or on the support schemes that are otherwise for renewable energy. So it is only the immediate costs and not what we, as a society, or at least a majority of the elected parties in here, have decided to use to reorganise our transport system and our energy system. That's one part of it. The second part is that we in the SF want to promote public transport. We want to promote private carism that is more green and more sustainable than today. That is why we do not support making it cheaper than it is today. In short, that is our position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152728	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152732	I should like to know whether SF does not care at all about ordinary Danes and families who are going to work and who do not serve a manor house, but need a car because public transport, for example. in the area where they live is not so you can settle for it. You simply have to have a car to make everyday life stick together. And you have to have that car, whether or not it, because the tax is so high, costs $100,000. or if it costs 200,000 kroner. So the only thing you get out of this high registration fee is to pick low income families in Denmark, so they have more difficulty getting their household budget to last.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152816	I have actually lived most of my life in a part of the country, where it is quite natural to have a car, because there are at least so few buses and trains and there is certainly no metro or S-train in that part of the country that you have to have a car. From the SF we are not opposed to people having a car. We would like there to be more people moving to public transport where it makes sense in the larger cities. But we don't imagine a world where there are no cars anymore. That doesn't make sense. There are large parts of the country where it is not worth putting in enough buses and trains for it to be connected for people. But we also have to say that it has to cost something, because you drive more environmentally-economically if the petrol costs more, if the diesel costs more, and you might buy a car that drives longer on the liter. That's the kind of consideration you're going to take. But from the SF we have a lot of other proposals that benefit low-income families at the expense of some who earn a little more money. And in this way, the Liberal Alliance could support the SF's proposal to introduce a microtax in the financial sector and then increase the employment allowance by DKK 3,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152924	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430152926	Yes, but now it is so and we know from the Environmental Economic Council that the taxes that have been put on the car owners are much higher than the costs that society has, know that cars are driving around much So is the question: Why should there be the extra taxation of people who have no choice if they want to take care of their jobs than buying a car? They can't make life hang together without a car. You will live in areas of Denmark where there is no public transport which the SF celebrates elsewhere in Denmark. Why do they have to be overtaxed in this way so that their budget becomes so heavy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153010	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153012	I would say that we in the SF have helped to propose and adopt far more measures to mitigate some of the taxes in Denmark that, yes, turn the heavy end down than the Liberal Alliance has. Because we know that when you have taxes that have to be what you call behavioral regulation, to get people to use a little less gasoline or to be a little more environmentally friendly, it can turn the heavy end down. That is why we have a green cheque, and that is why we are trying to get through with proposals to grant a greater allowance for employment to people who earn less than the average. That is why we have a large number of proposals to mitigate it. But there are also people in those parts of Denmark where I come from who care about the environment and know that it also costs something to have a green transition on all parameters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153104	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153114	Thank you. There is one thing that is absolutely certain about this proposal, and that is that it will, of course, increase the sale of cars. This will increase the number of cars on our roads, and everything else will create more congestion and increase the climate load in terms of CO2 so I know that the Liberal Alliance's response to this kind of thing is that you will have to expand the road network, especially in order to cope with the congestion and build up the motorway network, which will only create more cars and more congestion and more climate congestion. At least that's the very sure outcome of this proposal. It is based on the myth that it is expensive to be a driver in Denmark and that drivers are almost fire-taxed. However, as the tax minister also mentioned, there has after all been a great deal going on in that area in terms of less expense for being a motorist. When we go back to the introduction of the tax freeze, we can see that the weight and ownership charges were stopped, which then continued unchanged for a number of years. During the major shift in car tax and car tax in 2007 • that was in what can be called the Green Period of the Left • it led to a deduction in the registration fee for so-called good fuel economy. At that time, a deduction of DKK 4,000 was made. per miles, like a car drove over 10 miles on the gallon. In 2007 there could be really good sense in it, because then it was about 20 per cent. of the cars that were covered by this. We just have to say that in 2014 it is between 90 and 95 per cent. of all cars that get that deduction, so it has little to do with good fuel economy anymore in our opinion. That means, of course, that for a car that drives 25 km per hour. There are a few that go even further, but 25 km is one of the top things at the moment • gets a deduction of DKK 36,000. in the registration fee. At the same time, it was also in 2007 that you raised the scale, and today it is 81,700 DKK. The scale has been regularly increased since 1990, when it was in the vicinity of 20,000 kroner, and today, as I said, it is 81,700 kroner. After all, it is an increase of around 400 per cent, and that means everything else being equal, that car taxation is being eroded. It will be cheaper to buy a car, as you reach the limit of 81,700 DKK. Pays 105 percent. in taxes and only then pays the high tax of 185%. At the same time, we have seen a marked drop in petrol prices at the moment, and we have seen a marked drop in insurance premiums, at least if you rely on the so-called large car budget of the FDM. After all, in our view, the registration fee includes a number of obsolete reductions on ABS and EPS and harness alarms. And on the radio you get God help me a 1,000 kr deduction. in the registration fee, despite the fact that it is standard in any car today and some of it is even statutory. This has also led to a significant drop in revenue from the registration fee • a decrease in the region of 8-9 billion. kr. So it has become significantly cheaper to be a driver, and it has been for many years. It may be that it is still expensive to compare with other countries. Yes, but it has become significantly cheaper, by the way, contrary to being public transport. If, for example, the tax on petrol since 1980, for example: had been regulated as a so - called yellow clip, a liter of gasoline would today cost between DKK 35 and $40. per The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. The Liberal Alliance bases its motion for a resolution on the Tax Office's calculators, and it is, as it is in the Ministry of Finance, where you also have some calculators standing, and that gives such magic tricks, I call them gradually. It was found to be self-financing, and now there are other preconditions, so it is not self-financing anyway," says the tax minister. That is one of the reasons why we are putting in some pre-conditions for increasing the supply of labour, and the value of the last crown and the fact that it gives rise to overtime, and I shall give you, I shall give you. And that's what I call magic magic. I would say that the changes in 2007 were aimed at being revenue-neutral. However, as I say, the fall in revenue has shown that they were certainly not. You can also compare it with the Ministry of Finance's calculation of how many people would fall out of the benefit system at the time, and that is such magic tricks. We believe that we should go a completely different way, and there I have a long list here. But I can see that the President has risen, so unfortunately I will not have time to exhaust that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153657	There may well be another opportunity, because there is a brief comment from Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153703	I totally understand, sir. Henning Hyllested's wish that cars should be taxed in relation to the costs they impose on society, and I share that wish. Because I also believe that car owners have to pay the cost of driving around on the roads. However, there is a huge overtaxation, and I would like to know if Enhedslisten has the view that it should be the case that the taxation of car owners is much higher than the cost of driving their cars. Is it simply a wish on the part of Enhedslisten that if you need a car, you have to pay much more in tax than the costs you impose on society?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153745	After all, it is not an unknown phenomenon that the tax system and the tax system should actually be used to regulate behaviour. And we certainly do not object to this being done in relation to, for example. car taxes, that is to say in relation to regulating car driving in this country. It is clear that the cheaper it is to drive a car, the more cars will drive, and that is not a wish at Enhedslisten. On the contrary, we want public transport to be expanded and we want to move green in the transport sector, and this, in our view, is moving in the opposite direction. But we have no problem with behavioral regulation here. You can always discuss the size of it. This can also be done with regard to the tobacco tax: how much must we give it in order for people to stop smoking at all? That is the problem we are dealing with here. But for us there is no problem in the fact that there is actually a behavior-regulating tax here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153832	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153834	But Mr. Henning Hyllested, though, even though he loves public transport, must think that there are places in Denmark where there are no S-trains or a bus line. So not even a bus line because it is so far between people that it would run empty all the time, and the environmental pollution would be very large with an empty bus. But these people aren't just supposed to take the bike, are they? They're allowed to take a car? Is it not reasonable that they pay the taxes that their car costs society at cost, but not more than that? Why do people who are not able to use public transport have to pay three times as much in taxes compared to what their car causes society to incur costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153917	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430153919	That is a very good question, and I am not saying that in order to fail to answer it, on the contrary. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen is absolutely right in saying that in this way Denmark is really broken over, because there is a huge difference in what is made available by public transport, and I fully agree that there are large parts of the country where public transport is gradually shut down and does not exist. After all, we believe that the answer to this is in fact that car taxation could be changed. One could, for example: Go into the idea of road pricing. You can set it up very, very carefully, so you just take into account that there are places where you don't want a lot of cars in the metropolitan areas and where, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says that there is clearly a need to have a car because there is no other means of transport. It is not because we object to people taking the bike, because it is very healthy, and there is also some behavioural regulation in it. But it is clear that distances can also be too large. Among other things, they are. over there, where I come from, at least outside the town where I come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430154016	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430154030	I am tempted to exclaim first: Car owner, your name is dairy cow! A car owner is a dairy cow for the Treasury. There are so many taxes on car purchases, on car use through petrol and diesel taxes, green taxes on ownership and liability insurance that car owners pay more than 40 billion. kr. to the Treasury every year. By comparison, the cost to society of driving cars on the roads is only 17 billion. kr. So the bees pay more than 40 billion. kr., while society's total cost of cars is only 17 billion. kr. We have the words of the Environmental Economic Council for that. It is they who have calculated the total cost of driving cars around. They note that there are costs of wear and tear, that there are costs of accidents, that there are costs of pollution, that there are costs of congestion and that, when all is taken together, it will be 17 billion. kr. or just about a third of how much car owners pay in taxes. And the Environmental Economic Council recommends that the taxation of cars in Denmark be reduced to a level where the taxation of cars covers the social costs of cars. Otherwise, you get the result that there are people who need a car and who would pay what the car costs and the costs it imposes on society, but who cannot afford it anyway, because taxation is so high. It is an economic loss, it is a loss of welfare, as welfare is defined not only as something that comes out of public funds, but as something that people have when they can seek the solutions and the life they want. So there are some people who would like to pay all the costs of having a car and who would have a good thing out of it. They would also pay the socio-economic costs, but they cannot afford to buy the car anyway, because one has put such a little stupid, or very stupid, tax on the purchase of cars in Denmark. In the past, in this Parliament, we have proposed that registration fees should be abolished completely, and we are still fully in favour of this. It is the policy of the Liberal Alliance that it must be abolished completely, and we will work hard on that when, hopefully, there will be a change of government after this election. But it was rejected, none of the other parties would vote in favour of it. Then we thought: well, let's try a slightly less ambitious proposal to test whether the other parties are in on it. We then propose to reduce the registration fee by 1% this time. We do this because figures from the Treasury show that it is virtually free of charge for the Treasury. The Ministry of Taxation has calculated that it only costs the Treasury 5 million. kr. When you count the positive effects of a lower registration fee into the calculation, it costs only 5 million. kr. At the same time, figures from the Ministry of Taxation show that if you also reduce the petrol and diesel tax by 1%, it will generate revenue for the Treasury. So, there will be some border trade that will instead come home to Denmark; there will be Germans and Swedes trading gasoline and diesel in Denmark; there will be greater mobility; people will work more. All this means that there will be an extra 30 million. kr. in the state treasury, if you lower the tax on petrol and diesel. So the calculation is quite simple: 1 per cent reduction in petrol - diesel tax is 30 million. kr. in the Treasury, 1% reduction in registration tax costs the Treasury 5 million. kr., so the total exercise gives a profit to the Treasury of 25 million. kr. This should be accepted by all reasonable people. We can reduce taxes and taxes for the Danes and at the same time get 25 million. kr. more in the treasury. Then the tax minister says: Well now we have some new calculations, and new calculations have even been made for the purpose of using them for this resolution. And then he accuses us that we do not know the calculations, even if they are made, in relation to the tax minister preparing what he should say to this motion for a resolution. We cannot therefore demand that we know the calculations when we make the resolution. But I'd like to ask you a question about those calculations. I would also like to say that if it turns out that the overall proposal here is only one such proposal. is 95%. self-financing or 90% self-financing, in fact, this is not a very good argument for it not to be implemented. Because if you imagine a tax is 100 million. kr. in the Treasury, but that it destroys for 1 billion. kr. Out in society, it's a bad prey for the Danes. It's like a comprehension who went to the market with a cow and came home with a bag of rotten apples. Father doesn't always do the right thing, and neither does taxman in this case. Taxes must be collected to make our public sector and state coherent, but there must be limits. When we are up in self-financing rates approaching the one hundred percent, this means that far, far more good economy is being destroyed in the entire society than the pennies that enter the treasury by levying taxes. And then they must be abolished, whether it is entirely self-financing or only almost self-financing. I would like to ask what the most recent figures are now, i.e. the figures that have emerged from the fact that the tax minister has had to prepare for this motion for a resolution. However, I would like to say, as the Minister of Taxation said earlier about a tax exemption on electric cars, which also costs the Treasury money, that if this cost the Treasury money, you can just find them in a financial bill debate, and that is why our proposal is valid. If there's a tiny hole in this, you're just gonna find them in the next budget bill debate. The government says that this is a good way to do it, and we can of course do it too. We are talking here about less money than what the government is proposing should be found in a financial bill negotiation to exempt electric cars from tax. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430154700	No one wanted to make a brief comment. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430154721	The debate is open. The first speaker is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430154746	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party will by B 128 require the government to make it an obligation for the municipalities to provide information about their processing times on the municipal websites. The reason is that it must be easy for citizens to be able to keep up with the length of time it takes to deal with a case. In fact, I agree that citizens must have good access to knowledge and, in other words, to know what level of service they can expect in terms of processing time in their municipality. It is precisely for this reason that the law on legal certainty already provides that each municipality must set general time limits for the municipality's proceedings in the individual cases and that these time limits must be published. It is, as the proposers of course know, left to the individual municipal council to decide how to publish it. However, it is explicitly provided in the bill for the current rule that publication must of course be made in a way that is both usual in the municipality and that allows interested citizens to see exactly the processing time. In my optics it will be very natural to publish the municipal deadlines on the municipality's website. Fortunately, many municipalities do. There are several examples of clear information on the local authorities' websites. Esbjerg is mentioned in the resolution as a good example, but I can also spread it out a little more and mention other cities in Denmark, for example. Rødovre, Fåborg, Midtfyn and West Himmerland. But one thing is to think that the website is an appropriate medium, another is to ask the Danish Parliament to lay down legal rules for all municipalities to publish their local deadlines in precisely that way. Here I think there must be room for local choices. It must be up to local self-government and local democracy what is customary and appropriate in each municipality. Citizens can exercise their local democratic influence if they want a particular or a changed form of publication in their municipality. They can, for example. do in the local public debate or through disability council or senior council in the municipality. This is a local subject where there is no reason for the Folketing to impose a particular method or form on the municipalities. The rules we have today already provide for the consideration of citizens and the citizens' quite reasonable and natural need to know what processing time they can expect from their local authority in each area. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155104	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155109	I just need to get it right. In fact, the Minister thinks it is a good idea that these processing times should be published and that they should also be clearly posted on the local authorities' websites. The fact is that today we know that these processing times are not always equally clear. That is why I would like to read something to the Minister and it is a quote from an answer to a citizen who has written about this to an official: you hit right down to a sore point. We do not have an easily accessible description of processing deadlines on our website. Many of them are hidden away in quality standards and the like. It was just a small quote from one of the citizen's references we've been given. I think it is quite frustrating and bad for the rule of law for citizens that they do not have easy access. That is why we are proposing with this motion for a resolution that there should be. Citizens must therefore be able to access the website and see how long it takes to have their case dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155211	But the rapporteur confuses some things. Firstly, there is the need for the citizen to be able to go in and look at the time of treatment. You can actually do that. Then there is another concept, and perhaps it is a little more relative, namely that it should be available. It's different from person to person, isn't it? By far, the vast majority of municipalities have the knowledge available, and I also encourage the municipalities to constantly improve in this area. But that does not mean that we have to start regulating it from in here. It is precisely local self-government that we pay tribute to in here, namely that they themselves can also help to regulate where and how it should be on, for example. their websites. As I said in my speech, as a citizen, you have the opportunity to assert your influence in local democracy, and I would, of course, urge you to do so. Fortunately, this is also the case in the vast majority of municipalities in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155308	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155311	It is the case today that there is no requirement for the deadlines to be published on the website, and that is what we want in the Danish People's Party. Another thing is that I would like to ask the Minister: if the municipalities do not do this here and do not have the easy-to-use processing times somewhere, what sanctions are there? Perhaps the Minister can explain that. What sanctions are available to the municipalities if they do not comply with this and do not have any easily accessible deadlines somewhere • Since the Minister will not be involved in publishing it on the municipalities' website?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155346-2	After all, it is always possible to impose daily penalty payments on municipalities if they do not follow the different rules that now exist. But I do not think it is necessarily a viable path to go. This is, in fact, the second time today that the rapporteur and I are talking about sanctions against the municipalities, and I know that the rapporteur is very pleased with sanctions. But in Denmark we have a really long tradition of engaging in dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities when we have certain challenges, and I think that this topic is also appropriate to do so. We do that in a lot of other areas. And then it is the case that sometimes you also get the impression that there are no people from the Danish People's Party sitting in the municipalities. But there is, and there is, a dialogue with them. So I think it is quite clear that a subject like this is very, very good for dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155439	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155444	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. It can of course be said that this is an intervention in municipal self-government. Now, I think we are talking about an intervention here, if that is what is about improving citizens' legal certainty. There are major problems with processing times in many places, and it is probably reasonable that the municipalities should be required to publish these processing times. So will the Minister acknowledge that if it is an intervention in the municipal self-government, it is a very modest intervention compared with the intervention by the Minister's government in the municipal self-government when we talk about budget compliance requirements, with quite severe sanctions imposed on the municipalities if they do not comply with the budgets? I assume that the Minister is pleased with sanctions in this respect. That is the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Finance, at least. We have just been told this by consultation today. So will the Minister acknowledge that if there is an intervention in local government, if you follow the proposals of the Danish People's Party, this is a very, very modest intervention compared with the intervention by the government and the conciliation parties in the municipalities' autonomy in relation to the budget law?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155614	Then Mr. Finn Sørensen well and thoroughly mixed really, very many good things into this debate here • some more relevant than others. I think it is completely incomparable, and I think there is one thing that Mr. Finn Sørensen completely forgets, and that's the proportions. Too far, the vast majority of municipalities have then maybe a handful have not. That we should start to legislate from here on, I really think is to use a foreign word overkill. I think it is particularly relevant to engage in a dialogue with the municipalities. As I have said, we have very, very good experience of this, and we have a very good tradition of it, and I think that should also apply in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155707	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155709	Thank you. Well, thank you for the Minister's answer. I was just trying to get some proportions into the picture, because the Minister is turning to a proposal and referring to municipal self-government. That is the only argument used by the Minister: it is municipal autonomy. So I say, can't we get a little proportion of that? If this is an intervention in municipal self-government, it is surely a very, very modest intervention which benefits the legal certainty of the citizens, compared with the intervention by the Minister's own government in municipal self-government, with the budget law and the threats of harsh sanctions if there were some municipalities that dared to exceed the budgets and the agreed service framework a little. So it was precisely to get some proportions in it, and I would like the Minister to deal with the proportion in the Minister's own arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155802	Well, I'm kind of dealing with the proportions of this, and I think it's, like, like, sir. Finn Sørensen's on the subject is disproportionate. Let me say again: I do not like to have to sanction municipalities because there should be a handful of municipalities that do not follow both Mr. Finn Sørensen's taste and in the taste of the Danish People's Party also have an information that is exactly accessible enough. I think it is much more dangerous and much more constructive to enter into dialogue with the municipalities. And as I said, we have a very, very good tradition for it in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155843	Thank you to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Then it is the first rapporteur in the series of speeches, and that is Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430155908	Let me begin by thanking the Karina Adsbøl of the Danish People's Party for raising this debate, because I think there is indeed substance in the debate. It is not particularly appropriate that people are not good at communicating with the citizens of the municipalities concerned and that they do not ensure that the information is properly available. That is why I would like to start by saying that I actually find this motion for a resolution quite sympathetic. We in the Left basically take the view that the public is there for the citizens and that it should not be the other way around. That is why the whole objective of this motion for a resolution, namely to make it easier for citizens, is a very sensible objective. Then I just note that, in fact, we have already incorporated into the legislation an obligation on the municipalities to provide information on the processing times in the social field. That is why there is legislation in force in this area, and yes, it is worth discussing how good it is to meet this obligation. What the proposers are calling into question by the present obligation is that among the 98 municipalities there is no common form of where and how the information is then published. And I do not share the concern that there may not be a common way of doing it. There I have to support the Minister in saying that it is a protection of municipal self-government that we say that the municipalities have a certain degree of methodological freedom, in terms of how they design their websites, and in terms of how they ensure that information is available. This gives the individual municipal council the freedom to decide precisely how the publication of the processing times is carried out most appropriately in the municipality concerned, and I do not think that we should legislate or interfere in this from a central point of view. So I have to say in conclusion that I do not think it is necessary or appropriate to lay down the rules here at the centre, which are proposed in the motion for a resolution. However, I agree that we must have the citizens at the heart. So must the municipal councils. You have to do that when you work with communication in the municipal offices. And that is why there is a strong call for the municipalities to ensure precisely that the interests of access to information are taken into account in the best possible way. But the Left will not support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160156	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Left. Then it's mr. Jan Johansen as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160204	Thank you. As the rapporteur for the Socialists could not be here, I will take it over. As a citizen of Denmark, one must of course have good access to find out how long it will take before the municipality has finished dealing with one's case. Nor can there be two opinions that we owe this kind of clarity and legal certainty to our citizens. We in the Socialist Group fully agree with that. But when we have said so, it is also important to say that the law is crystal clear on this point. Indeed, it is already clear from the legal certainty law that, firstly, the municipalities must set procedural deadlines and, secondly, publish them in such a way as to enable citizens to find them. Therefore, in this matter alone, the question is how far we parliamentary politicians have to stick our hands in municipal political work, and here we disagree with the proposers. Because we do not believe that it is necessary to run retail from Christiansborg, exactly how the municipalities publish their deadlines. We are confident that local politicians will be able to find out for themselves. Today, the vast majority of municipalities already publish the processing deadlines on their website, and if I can't find them, I will probably do just as many other Danes will do, namely lift the pipe and call the municipality and ask where I can find them. We must be careful not to make things more difficult and bureaucratic than they need to be. That is why the Socialists do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160344	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160348	I think it is a little too bad that the Socialists do not support it either, but that is what we should say. This is about citizens who wait a long time for a decision in their cases and often do not know how long to wait. That is why we want it to be easily accessible on the local authorities' website. And it is true that today it says it has to be published, but it does not say anywhere where it has to be published, so these procedural deadlines can actually be hidden far away, as I mentioned earlier. But if it is not the municipal website that the rapporteur thinks they should be on, where does the rapporteur think these time limits should be published?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160432	Thank you. How each municipality should deal with these kinds of cases and where they should lie must be the decision of the municipal council. And as the Minister also said before, the Danish People's Party has brought many members into the municipal councils around, and I am quite sure that you can also exercise your influence there in relation to the municipal politicians and say that you will have it put on the website if it does not lie there. However, we should bear in mind that it is by far the majority of municipalities that have it on the website, and therefore I think it would be less work to get hold of the municipalities that do not. And you could also take it up through the elderly council or the disability council in your municipality, so that it can be put in some places where it is accessible to citizens. It is not all citizens who can enter a website, so I also believe that there is a need for them to call the municipality or to contact them in other ways in order to know the time limits for the proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160537	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160539	Yes, of course they should be able to call their local authority, but it is no longer possible to do so today, after all, in many places in line for half an hour. The word 'citizen service' is sometimes far away, I think it is, in any case, in relation to what the citizens think. But now it is the case that we do not actually know how many people publish it here on their website, because it is the Ministry of Social Affairs and Integration, according to a reply from the former Minister Karen Hækkerup, and you have no overview of it. So perhaps the rapporteur could tell me how many municipalities do it in advance and where the deadlines are clearly shown on their website.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160622	I can't do the exact number, I haven't gone through it all, but I can say that for my own municipality I can go in and find the deadlines. And then I also feel a bit like, where you can't find it, you can contact the municipality and ask them to put it on the website, if that's what is necessary for you to be able to find it more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160646	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl in the first place as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430160701	Thank you for that, President. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that it is important for citizens to be able to keep up with the processing times in the municipality in which they live. It must be easy and simple to keep track of the times in the social field, and citizens must be able to see how much time it takes to deal with a matter. Article 3 (3) The law on legal certainty and administration in the social field states that the municipal council must set time limits for the period between the receipt of an application and the decision. The time limits shall be published and, if the time limit cannot be met in a specific case, the applicant shall be informed in writing of when the applicant may expect a decision. But there is no mention of where these deadlines are to be published. It is, of course, the case today that there is no requirement for the deadlines to be published on the local authorities' website, which is why it can be very difficult for citizens to find out. Some municipalities use the municipality's website to publish the deadlines, but not everyone does, as the municipalities can also choose other methods to inform citizens about the processing times. In order to make it easier for citizens to follow the case in the municipality, we in the Danish People's Party want the municipalities to be obliged to provide information about the processing times on the municipality's website. This uniformity will make it easy and fast for citizens to keep up. It must be made clear where citizens can find the deadlines. What is also important in this context is that citizens can inform themselves about the level of service provided by the municipalities in this area and about the length of time they can expect to have in the social field. It can be based on the municipality of Esbjerg, where it is easy and manageable to find the time limits for the proceedings, even in all areas where a municipal decision is taken. Other municipalities are more creative and they write, for example.: Waiting time from receipt to start of a case is from 0-6 months. It's not ideal. On 30 March 2015, the Ombudsman stated precisely on this issue that authorities should comply with and revise the time limits for the proceedings, and waiting for a response from a municipality in a social court case, it is not only entitled to a procedure as quickly as possible, but also to know how long to expect to wait. This particular proposal is not expected to entail extra costs for the municipalities, as they are already obliged to publish the deadlines somewhere, just not in a particular form or via a particular medium. It is our intention to make it easier for citizens, and I believe that we can all understand how frustrating it can be to have no clarity as to how long one's case can take in municipal affairs. We in the Danish People's Party believe that this resolution can increase legal certainty for citizens, and I am rather sad that there is no greater support for this resolution, because we have been asked about it. In fact, it is also about me having a meeting with a citizen who is very concerned about this subject and who has also written to the Minister about it. That is precisely why I am just reading from one of the e-mails he has written to an official whom he has sent to me again. I just want to read it again, because I actually think it's quite important: you hit right into a sore spot. We do not have easy access to the description of processing times on our website. Many of them are hidden away in quality standards and the like. This shows that there are challenges in this area. And sometimes you get to know that you have to adjust. But I also hope that the Ombudsman will follow up this issue. Now I know that a municipality has got one over almost this problem. But if we could also make it easier for the citizens, it would be fantastic. Thank you for the floor on this occasion and I will come back awfully.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161122	Thank you for that, I say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I do not see any radical rapporteur, so this is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161134	Since the SF rapporteur could not be here, I have to read the speech. Of course, this should not prevent the authors from asking questions. Well, then I'll have to answer as well as I can. The motion for a resolution will make it compulsory for the municipalities also to provide information on the deadlines for processing in the social field on the local authorities' websites. There may be good reason for this, so that citizens know their rights, but the question is whether it will make a difference. This is somewhat unclear in the form of the proposal. The idea behind the motion for a resolution is sympathetic, namely that the citizen should be able to follow the times of proceedings in the individual municipality easily and easily. In SF we agree that we should focus on the processing times. Today they are far too long in some places. It is not only frustrating for the individual citizen, who has to wait too long for an answer and clarification, but also, in some cases, for the case officer who has been pressured to the utmost to reach today's affairs. That is not acceptable. On the other hand, it is also frustrating and sometimes unreasonable that if the municipality exceeds its deadlines, the citizen has no means of action, as opposed to if it is the citizen who is late or something slips away. But it is, of course, a little outside of this resolution, although in the SF we would actually like to have a look at it in the next session perhaps. Today, according to the law on legal certainty, municipalities are already obliged to set deadlines for the various cases and to publish them. If all municipalities are to be forced to publish the deadlines on the municipalities' websites, they may be concerned about whether even more time is spent on registration and bureaucracy • time which will go from the municipalities' core tasks and time that goes from dealing with citizens' cases. On the other hand, it should be little more than a technical approach which the appropriate department of a municipal administration can handle, insofar as the proposers do not envisage a rolling update from month to month of the pages themselves. If it is a matter of formal deadlines, it should be able to cope; if it is an ongoing update of the processing times, it is rather a different matter. But there must also be arrangements for this. The fact that public authorities also use their websites to publish essential information should actually be a rather natural expectation. This also applies to fixed deadlines, and it does not need to require large amounts of extra work if you are exactly what you imagine. In the SF, on the other hand, we also believe that a proper solution must be found to the problem of long processing times. It is not enough simply to inform about them; something must also be done about them. SF supports the intentions behind the proposal, but would like to look at it in committee. We are also looking forward to future proposals to improve processing times on citizens' premises.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161440	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161441	Thank you. Now the rapporteur is not the official rapporteur, so I will ask some questions to which the rapporteur can answer. As I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur agrees that time limits should be more easily accessible and that citizens should be able to find them more easily. I understood that we agreed. Then I just need to hear about something in relation to the processing times: Now, in the Danish People's Party, we have tabled a motion for a resolution stating that, in relation to the Ankestyrelsen, there must be suspensory effect in complaints, even if the person concerned has not improved his or her ability to function. I just need to know if I remember correctly, i.e. if it was not SF that was involved in dismantling the social boards, which caused the Ankestyrelsen to have extra long processing times because they did not have the implementation with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161537	In fact, I must be the rapporteur's answer, but I would very much like to find out. When the rapporteur sounds so sure about his case, that is certainly true. However, I would like to say now that I have a little extra time that the public sector is under pressure, and there are clearly some places where we can still look away well to go from so-called cold hands to hot hands or to, what to say, concrete help to the individual citizen instead of more time registration from a case worker. That is exactly what I am saying, even though it is not me who wrote the speech that both agreed and tried to make clear. After all, we should not spend even more time on bureaucracy, which will go from reducing processing times in particular, but we are very, very positive and open to the possibility of providing citizens with more information by means of a single system so that they can keep up with it more easily. However, I would also like to say, and it is a little outside of this, but nevertheless that if you want more case workers to be recruited; if you think there has to be money in the public sector to help people and ensure proper treatment, then you should not point to a prime minister candidate who wants zero growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161653	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161654	I will just have to comment on that, because Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen knows very well that the policy we had before an election with a growth rate of 0.8% is still absent, so it is not the Danish People's Party that has changed its mind or attitude. I just want to point that out. We have still gone away from the policy on which we went to the polls at the time and which we all went to the polls at which should be. That's the way it is, and we stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161726	Well, I know that DF has said that, so that's what you want, and I think it's also necessary. Then we can discuss how much public growth there must be, but it is a discussion we have had a thousand times in this Chamber: how much does it cost to maintain the current level? And then we have discussed back and forth whether it is zero growth or weak growth in the public sector. I just think again that it may well be that DF has that policy, but if you point to the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left and the Left, we will have a lower public service if there is zero growth. There's no way around it. And by pointing to the Prime Minister's candidate, we know that we are not going to achieve what we are sure we are earnestly hoping for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161810	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430161828	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's last words I can certainly make mine. Both Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and Mrs Poulsen are aware of this, namely that the Prime Minister's candidate to whom he refers does not fulfil all her wishes. But to the point. Enhedslisten supports this proposal. Of course, we are also open to some debates in committee, and if there is a majority in favour of a report that can bring us further in the direction of clarity and clarity and a requirement for municipalities to do so in relation to something that benefits citizens' legal certainty, then we are very, very open to it. I think it's out of proportion to start calling this an intervention in municipal autonomy. It is about the inclusion of a few words about the fact that the municipalities have a duty to disclose these processing times on their websites. So, my Lord, when you look at the sanctions and the interventions that all other parties in the Folketing are willing to take in municipal self-government, not least with the budget law and the sanctions that go with it, it seems rather strange that one should use an argument about municipal self-government against such a small administrative thing. There are already rules on how to publish laws and notices and where to publish them. Well, my gosh, since this is something that can help the citizens to get an overview of the municipality's work on their cases, I guess it was very reasonable to add it in. I sometimes think that a little too much effort is being made to find some excuses. I cannot quite be free from a slight suspicion that it is because perhaps the majority of the government and parliament, including the Left, do not care so much about the legal certainty of citizens. I am thinking of the answer given to my question by the Minister. 142 which dealt precisely with this problem and in which I asked the Minister whether he would undertake an investigation into the extent to which the municipalities actually comply with the law's requirement to publish these processing times. There I got the answer that the Minister did not really think there was any reason for this, because it was his impression that the vast majority of municipalities have published the processing times, and then there was no need to do more about it. However, it would be nice if we had a position that states that a legal requirement for the publication of processing times is being followed, also in the sense that citizens have an opportunity to check easily and easily whether this is happening. Then I would say: try to see all the demands we make to the citizens Then they can answer the phone and have a wait for, I don't know how many minutes or half hours. So how hard can it be? Then I would just like to comment on the reduction in processing times. It is not exactly in the proposal, but it has now been brought into the debate, and I would like to comment on it, so that the authors and others can ask in-depth questions. After all, there is complete agreement in this Parliament that the processing times of the Ankestyrelsen and the State Administration are not satisfactory. After all, the Enhedslisten is the conciliation party in the structural change that was made in relation to the state administration, so we do not run away from our responsibilities there. On the contrary, we have tried to shoulder that responsibility by repeatedly addressing the Minister about how we could reduce it, and that is one of the points on which there has then been a sensitivity. I mean, there's extra money thrown in, you know, and extra crews into the state authorities and the Anke Agency. The Minister has then, well too slowly, we think, agreed with the goal that on 1 July 2016 the average processing time should be reduced to 3 months. After all, that is the original objective that was left in 2004. We can also discuss whether this is sufficient, but it is certainly a significant improvement on what it was like before structural change and how it has been during the structural change itself, where, fortunately then, we can see positively that there is a clear trend towards a reduction in processing times. That is not to say that a lot of citizens do not rightly feel deeply frustrated that their cause is not being dealt with more quickly. And that has to be worked on all the time. But we support the proposal and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162328	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162334	After all, it is Mrs Thyra Frank who is the rapporteur for us, but she cannot be here today; in return she has written a speech and given it to me so that I can read it out. This proposal will ensure that citizens can be informed of the processing times in the social field. This is an important issue to focus on, as the administrative law does not require specific response times. There are only requirements for good administrative behaviour, and when there are examples of cases dragging on for years without the municipality doing anything, it can be difficult to see that good administrative behaviour is respected. The Ombudsman has also pointed out on several occasions that there are problems with the times of the proceedings in the municipalities, and expressed criticism in several cases. Many municipalities should therefore seize their own bosom and reduce processing times. However, it is already the case today that the processing times can be found on the local authorities' websites. This arrangement is not perfect today, as examples of uninformative and very wide scope for the duration of the proceedings can be found. However, although some municipalities have a problem in this area, we find it difficult to see that new legal requirements in this area should provide citizens with better services, and that is why we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162451	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth, who's gonna come singing there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162508	Thank you, sir. President. As our rapporteur in this area is not present today, I must state on his behalf the following about B 128 on mandatory information on social processing on the municipality's website: The Conservative People's Party is very concerned that public procedures are as short as is now possible. This applies both in municipalities, regions and states, and one of the methods for shortening the processing time is that the employees in the processing process work with it, rather than handling administrative trouble. We do not believe that it promotes processing times, that employees should also make sure that processing times are on the Internet. It is our view that employees should spend as much time as possible on the processing process, so that the processing times actually come down. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution, which everything else will mean that time passes from the procedure itself to administrative trouble. These are the comments from our rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162618	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162619	I just forgot that the rapporteur is not the right rapporteur, so I am abandoning it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162625	We thank the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162645	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten for the nice speech he gave. It is sometimes quite incredible to see that good friends can also be made on the opposite side when dealing with these motions for resolutions, which are precisely about the legal certainty of citizens. I often see in this Chamber that as soon as it is a question of imposing something on a municipality which is to do better for citizens or others, you simply raise your hands and say: No, we cannot. But as Mr. Finn Sørensen has just said that there is no problem in the reverse, in other words when we impose something on the citizens. In fact, I think that is an important point. At the moment I am following a case in a municipality about a sclerosis-stricken mother who cannot get help and has applied for a BPA scheme, i.e. simply about a helper, and the municipality cannot tell when she can get an answer at all. But then there are some other municipalities that have just published these processing deadlines on their website, and that is very good. After all, we are getting countless inquiries about those who do not, and the citizens simply do not know their rights. They do not know that the municipalities actually have an obligation to inform them about this. I think it is a pity that there is no support for saying to all municipalities in an easy and simple way: you must make it easy and accessible to your citizens, you must provide all the processing deadlines on your municipal website. Then citizens can keep up, and so they can also complain when the time limits for proceedings are not respected. But today it is a jungle and it makes it really difficult for the citizens out there. I think it's really frustrating. Because we all know people in here who are sick, such as you. has cancer, or some who are in the process of a pension case or a flexible job, and it is essential that you can keep track of how long your municipality is dealing with these cases. Thank you, however, for some of the nice words that the proposal got on the road, including from the Left, although they do not support it. I think that is really a pity, but I hope nevertheless that I do not see now that the SF is present that we can discuss it together here in committee. If nothing else, we might be able to make a report or other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162928	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162939	The debate is open. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430162954	We must now consider a resolution on one entry into the public sector via the community's citizens' service. The government, like the proposers, believes that citizens must experience a coherent public sector where it is easy to find the right entrance and where citizens face good and effective procedures. For most citizens, digital self-service solutions and digital mail are the natural gateway to communication with the public, and we can welcome the fact that almost 90 per cent. of citizens now have a digital mailbox. It provides a flexible everyday life where you can communicate with the public when you have time, and thus is not limited by the opening hours of the Citizen Service Centre. At the same time, digitalisation gives you the opportunity to spend money on welfare rather than postage and paper. But not all citizens are digital, and for those citizens who cannot operate digitally, it must remain easy to get in touch with the public. Here, the community's citizens' service will be the obvious one for many citizens. The authors of the proposals want the local community's citizens' service to be able to carry out all the types of tasks that citizens need to address to the municipality and the public sector, with the exception of civil registration. However, citizens already have the opportunity to obtain help to a large extent today by addressing the citizens' services of the municipalities. In addition to being the entrance to the public task areas, the municipalities' citizens' service provides general guidance and information on e.g.: the tax area and the opportunities available to obtain benefits from Payout Denmark, and citizens who have problems with NemID or wish to be exempted from digital mail may also contact the local community's citizens' service. For citizens with special needs, e.g. mental or physical disability, the municipality is obliged to maintain contact with other relevant authority on behalf of its citizens. Both SKAT and Payout Denmark have established special hotlines in this regard, so that the municipality can quickly get in touch with the relevant authority if for example. need a detailed guidance on the annual balance sheet, or if the municipality is to help a exposed citizen to obtain information on his or her case in Payout Denmark. This creates speedy and effective procedures, but above all security for citizens who have problems with digital solutions or who, moreover, have difficulty finding their way around the public service. It is important for the government that all citizens, digital and non-digital, experience a coherent public sector and that everyone can get the help they need. In recent years, the municipalities' portfolio of tasks has been constantly changed as a result of inter alia: the local government reform and the establishment of Payout Denmark. In some areas, therefore, tasks have been shifted in order to improve efficiency and to support an efficient and high-quality procedure. In Payout Denmark's territory, tasks have primarily been moved where it is not necessary for a case officer to make a specific estimate in the case. To a lesser extent, therefore, contact and dialogue with the citizen is needed, because the matter is primarily decided on the basis of objective criteria. Such tasks do not therefore need to be carried out in the geographical vicinity of citizens. In other types of task, it is appropriate to maintain the procedure in the municipalities. This applies, for example, when a citizen with disabilities is to be searched for a residence offer, and in other decisions, which are, of course, largely based on a concrete estimate. Therefore, it is important to have this distinction between types of tasks in mind in the discussion of where they are best solved. At the same time, it is not a secret that economic considerations are also included in the assessment of where tasks are best placed. Just as a single example I can mention about the financial gains by moving tasks that Payout Denmark today 2 years after commissioning has saved municipalities administrative expenses for approx. 300 million kr. annual. In addition, there are other further savings, for example. in the form of small IT licence costs. That is why we are constantly evaluating where the tasks are located in the various authorities, in order to ensure the proper performance of tasks in the public sector. Most recently, on 21 April 2015, with the broad support of all parties in the Folketing, with the exception of Enhedslisten, it was decided that five new areas of work will be transferred to Payout Denmark. The case handling in the five tasks is very similar to the tasks that Payout Denmark is performing today, and they also have a close connection with the current tasks. In addition, these are a few complex areas where it may be difficult for all municipalities to have the necessary powers to decide matters, for example. international health insurance cases. The change in law made it clear again that it is still the municipality's job to help citizens who need help with digital self-service in the five areas that Payout Denmark takes over and that it is also the municipality which must continue to be the link to Payout Denmark if it is a citizen with a special need who has difficulty in understanding how to call Payout Denmark himself. In order for citizens to experience more quality and coherence in the public sector, the government has an ambition that the next common public digitalisation strategy should ensure that future digitalisation is even more focused on creating value for citizens by relying on citizens' needs. This may sound elementary, but I think we can be better placed to focus public digitalisation on creating value for citizens and businesses for that matter. The majority of the objectives we have today for public digitalisation are directed inwards towards the public sector. There is therefore a need for us to be better placed to set targets aimed at achieving that citizens experience better service and higher quality. To ensure a better digital user experience, we need to look at non-digital citizens. What is it that makes some citizens have problems using NemID or certain self-service solutions and therefore show up at citizen service? We need to be better able to answer such questions and we need to find solutions that will respond to those issues. As has already been said, the government attaches great importance to the fact that all citizens meet a coherent public sector, whether digital or not. For some citizens, the citizen.dk is the natural entry to dialogue with the public, while the municipal civil service is the obvious once for others. Fortunately, today we have far along the way both well-functioning digital solutions and municipal citizens' service centres that can help and advise citizens who have problems with digital solutions. The municipalities' community service centres therefore serve to a large extent as a coherent entrance for citizens who need personal service. At the same time, the government considers that the current division of tasks between municipalities and, for example, the municipalities. SKAT and Payout Denmark is appropriate. It has been made on the basis of the balance between the need for an efficient public sector and the need to ensure that there is continued help in the municipality for those citizens who need assistance in the field of service, guidance or other face-to-face contact in connection with contact with the authorities. I also think that sometimes, and sometimes undeserved, the community's citizens' service gets a little bad reputation for the fact that it is always difficult and takes a long time and that you have to stand in line. My own experience just here recently is that it is very effective in many places. You can book a time, so you're free to stand in line. So even where people still have to attend, I believe that we have in fact organised a good and coherent service, whether citizens need new driving licences or passports, or more complicated procedures. Against this background, the government cannot agree to the motion for a resolution to change the organisation of the municipal civil service.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430163654	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430163658	Thank you. A long way along the way, I was very pleased with the Minister's comments, because it sounded as if the citizens who need should actually be able to go down in civic service and get the help they need. It sounds a little like the Minister thinks that this can actually be done, and then we are very close that the government should be able to support this proposal. Because it is about the fact that in those areas where municipalities today are not able to go in and help the citizen, the municipality must ensure that there is cooperation and that there is a possibility that a case worker in the municipality can actually provide it with help to the citizen who comes, so that you are not just equipped with, for example. a telephone number for Payout Denmark or a phone number for SKAT, and it is expected that you can handle it yourself, but that you can get your case done. Therefore, I would like to hear why we cannot agree on this resolution when, as I hear it, we now agree that those citizens who actually need help should be able to go down in civic service and get the help they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430163756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430163758	It is typically the case that when a motion for a resolution is tabled, it is in order to get the government to change something. What I was trying to describe was that we think the division of tasks is appropriate. There is also the fact that, although we said that tax matters should be dealt with in the municipalities, what requires help will often mean that we still have to consult case officers who have a particular insight into those particular areas. That is why we think that we have the right balance between the municipalities' citizens' service being largely the citizens' entrance to the public sector, but if you are a exposed person or have special needs, there is a hotline for SKAT or Payout Denmark where you can get help. Therefore, no one knows where to turn for help. But sometimes the best help is to get a telephone number for someone who actually knows how to solve the problem facing citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430163845	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430163848	I hear that a little in the way that perhaps we could agree to adjust the rules that exist so that they actually have the opportunity to help the citizen with the issues raised by the citizen. There are a number of conditions that citizens' services are not allowed to help with today. Can I have the Minister's assurance that we will be able to resolve these issues so that citizens' services in the municipalities will actually be able to fulfil the tasks for which citizens stand and need help?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430163918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430163919	We need to start from the proposal that has been made. I am completely open to what the Danish People's Party may have of concrete proposals, but when we cannot support the resolution, it is because it is about changing the organisation between municipalities, Payout Denmark and SKAT. We do not think we should do so. This does not alter the fact that the local community's citizens' service is to a significant extent the overall entrance that the proposers are also interested in, and it does not alter the fact that people who have special needs can also receive special help from both SKAT and Payout Denmark if they turn to the local community's citizens' service. I just think we should be careful not to make things more complicated than they are. I believe that the community's citizens' service provides a very good service to the citizens and that, in return, we should do what we can to ensure that, when we have to solve our problems, we can always be helped to find the competent employee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430164009	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Karen Ellemann as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430164019	Since the rapporteur of the Left, Jan E. Jørgensen, was unable to be here right now, I have had the pleasure of acting as rapporteur in relation to this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party that we are debating. As the Minister has also mentioned, this is a motion for a resolution which deals with one entry into the public sector via the community's citizens' service. In concrete terms, therefore, the proposal is that citizens' services should now also be able to help citizens in relation to Payout Denmark and in relation to SKAT. I must be honest and admit that I have little difficulty in understanding some parts of the resolution, because it is already the case today that citizens' services have a duty to provide comprehensive guidance and to help non-digitally ready citizens and citizens with special needs when it comes to paying out Denmark. It is exactly in the law on Payout Denmark. It even states that the municipality must provide assistance to citizens who are deemed to have special needs in three areas. The first is to help fill in and submit an application to Payout Denmark; the second is to ensure that the citizen can participate in the processing of his or her case at Payout Denmark; and the third is to arrange the contact with Payout Denmark on behalf of the citizen. So, as the Minister also mentioned, help can already be given to citizens' services. And the Left estimates that the division of labour between Citizen Service and Payout Denmark, which is outlined in the Danish Payout Act, is quite fine. As far as the proposal that citizens' services should carry out tasks in relation to the SKAT is concerned, it is only to say that this proposal will actually counteract structural reform. For in 2005, SKAT was formed as part of the structural reform by merging the State Customs and Tax and Municipal Tax Administrations, thereby creating a nationwide unitary administration of tax recovery, and it is now organised in various central units and local tax centres. We decided in 2005 that tax collection and administration is a state matter, and that is why we do not actually see any reason to change it. Because if we are to be able to provide the services described in this motion for a resolution, it will mean that we are actually going to have to employ a great many people in civil service, because tax everything else is just a complicated area, and that is why it is still a matter of citizens having competent advice, and our assessment is that we get it from SKAT as it is today. So the conclusion of the rapporteur's speech will be that we will not be able to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430164313	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Jan Johansen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430164320	Thank you, sir. President. Since our rapporteur, Simon Kollerup, cannot be present, I have taken the matter up and read his speech. The Danish People's Party has proposed that the community's citizens' service should serve as one entrance to the public. The proposers stress in particular that the municipalities must be able to help with enquiries related to tasks which lie with Payout Denmark and SKAT. On the part of the Socialists, we share the ambitions of the proposers. We agree that citizens must experience a coherent public sector. However, we believe that this is the case in the vast majority of cases already today. In relation to Disbursement Denmark, as you know, they have taken over cases of objective procedure, i.e.: benefits that apply across municipalities to one's rules on where a citizen is entitled to pay, e.g. housing benefits. It is still the municipality that provides a general guide on the citizen's ability to obtain the benefit, which is below Payout Denmark, and citizens' service can also help with the digital self-service solutions at Payout Denmark. For citizens with special needs, the municipalities must ensure an extra firm effort and make contact with Payout Denmark. In addition, the municipality's citizens' service helps the elderly and others who have problems operating NemID or who are exempt from digital mail. For the vast majority, it has become easier that you can now sit at home at night and take care of your affairs without standing in line with the community's citizens' service. However, for those citizens who cannot use the digital self-service solutions, the municipalities must help with the help that is needed. The municipal citizens' service also helps with general guidance and information in the field of taxation by means of personal inquiries. It may also help to change the citizens' balance of advances. The municipalities also have a hotline in both SKAT and Payout Denmark for use when providing special guidance to citizens with special needs. We must ensure that we help the elderly and other citizens who do not make use of the digital self-service solution. This aid is very much in the hands of the local community's citizens' service today. With those comments, I can therefore say that the Socialists cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled, but that we share the ambitions of the proposers that citizens should experience a coherent public sector. I have to say that the SF could not be present and they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430164607	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur, also on behalf of the SF. Then it's mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430164626	Thank you. In fact, easy and flexible access to the public is very high on the agenda of the Radical Left, which is why we are actually happy to have this debate today. The municipalities are very advanced in expanding their community service so that you can now get help with the vast majority of things: passports, health cards, marriages, writing up for nursery school, guidance, advance payments to SKAT, folk pension, etc. You can either show up at citizen service or use the many self-service options available today on the municipalities' websites, and today you actually use 4.4 million Danes NemID to operate digitally. So it has to be said that self-service has already been a great success. The municipalities are also obliged to provide holistic guidance to the individual citizen, so that one is sure that one gets the right help, including for tasks carried out by e.g. Disbursement Denmark. At the same time, we have decided politically that not all procedures must necessarily lie in the municipalities, but for example. in Disbursement Denmark when it comes to housing support, public pension, family benefit, or in SKAT when it comes to tax matters. This is because in all its simplicity, there are actually tasks that are very similar across municipalities and/or require very specialised knowledge, so it makes sense to gather this type of tasks across municipalities. This is good for both the proper and uniform quality of the case and for the effectiveness of the procedure as well. So far, the collection of tasks in Payout Denmark has actually saved the Danes 300 million. kr., which instead can be used in schools and home help in the municipalities. Of course, it must not go beyond the service that we receive on community service in the municipality or by direct contact with Payout Denmark or SKAT, and therefore citizens' service today must also help to answer questions or help use the self-service solutions in the areas where it is Payout Denmark or SKAT that are responsible. The municipalities are also obliged to help citizens with special needs in the direct contact with Payout Denmark, which is why the municipalities also have a quickline directly to Payout Denmark and what is called a VIP telephone number for SKAT, for the same reason, and the municipalities can even go further and act on behalf of the citizen vis-à-vis Payout Denmark if needed. The municipalities have also been given the resources to carry out this task. You can also turn directly to Payout Denmark or SKAT by phone, email or letter post. Many people know very well about situations where you wait on the phone for a citizen's service, for SKAT or Payout Denmark, so of course there is also room for improvements in that area. However, the Radical Left cannot support the proposal to move tasks back to the municipalities, so that all matters can be resolved there, so that citizens can always turn to only one place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430164924	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430164926	Thank you. After all, I am still glad that it is believed that citizens should be able to get the help they need if they come to civil service. That is why I really want to ask about it. It sounds a little like you think people can get that today. It is not, of course, because our proposal is that we should move the case back. It's about how if you go into citizen service, you need to be able to help with that contact and help make sure that you can solve things, so that you don't do it yourself if you can handle it... you have to make that contact directly to Payout Denmark or to SKAT. If I hear the rapporteur here that they are on the part of the Radical Left that, if there are any challenges in making this work, in relation to the fact that citizens' services can actually provide it here and ensure that the necessary help is provided as a citizen, then Radicals are prepared to make the changes that are needed in order for citizens' services to be able to have a direct contact with, for example, the European Parliament. Pay out Denmark or to SKAT, and that things can be solved so that you are not sent home from citizen service with unfinished business?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165036	Yes, and it actually already appears in the Danish Payout Act, § 3 paragraph. 2, that you are entitled to this help in the municipality, if you have some special needs, i.e. where the municipality can go in and act as intermediary between the citizen and Payout Denmark and thus provide the help that you need. So there is, of course, a legal basis for providing that help, and you as a citizen are also entitled to that help. So I do not see that this gives rise to any change in legislation or anything else. And it is clear that if there are concrete examples where you as a citizen experience that you cannot get any help, you are entitled to it at least, and I think that is what you should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165112	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165115	Well, I am delighted because I get a lot of inquiries from citizens who are caught between citizens' services that can't help them, and a Payout Denmark or SKAT that they can't get in touch with, or where they get strange stories in one way or another. That means that now I can go back to them and say that they actually have a legal requirement for that, and I can go back to the citizens' service and say that they must, of course, complete this task because it is already in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165144	Yes, and as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, these quick lines for Payout Denmark and a VIP line for SKAT have just been established for the municipalities so that they can get through quickly when there is a need to help a citizen in a specific case. So there is certainly a basis for this to work. I think that should be allowed to work, and so we have to take the specific examples that might exist if it does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165207	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the SF's rapporteur who wants to speak anyway. We were told that the SF's rapporteur's speech was taken over by the Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165226	I even put on high heels today, but apparently I'm still too small and disappear in the crowd. Thank you, however, to the Socialist rapporteur. I am here anyway on behalf of the SF rapporteur, who could not be here, and I thought that when I was here, it was most fair that I also read that speech and also gave the other rapporteurs the opportunity to ask questions. Then I'll see if I can answer. In SF we again think that the intentions behind DF's proposal are good and sympathetic. We agree that access to and communication with the public sector must be as easy and simple and unbureaucratic as possible. It must be easy for citizens to be in dialogue with the public and the public system must run smoothly and easily. However, in the SF we find it doubtful whether the proposal can help to fulfil the task of whether access to the public sector will actually be easier and simpler if this proposal goes through. First of all, we lack a concrete description of the problem that DF will solve. The comments state that it is unsatisfactory for some citizens to be shown from citizens' service to Payout Denmark and that citizens would like to have the problems resolved face to face. In the report to L 148 on Payout Denmark, the Danish People's Party notes that there is a need to work with Payout Denmark's contact with citizens, and that citizens who are not persistent enough to penetrate the telephone locks and who do not know how to penetrate the system... need to continue to be able to talk to another person about the issues they have. Of course, citizens must be able to get through to the right authorities, for example. SKAT and Payout Denmark. If there are problems there, they must be resolved and I agree that we must take account of citizens who are not on the digital wave. That is why it is also possible to be exempt from digital self-service, it is my own grandparents and now I am speaking on my own behalf. They have never really joined the digital wave and they have been exempted. It was precisely an important element for most parties in here, I think, when we made the law, that you should be able to get help if you didn't feel ready for it or had other challenges. Although we in the SF feel that the idea of one entry into the public sector is sympathetic, we lack a more elaborate proposal which describes the problem and the solution proposal, and when it comes we would like to take part in a serious discussion on how we can make the public sector simpler and more efficient for the benefit of both citizens and employees. However, we think that there are some very good solutions to the problems that may exist and that in practice there is an entry point by the individual who needs to get in touch with, for example. Payout Denmark, can go down to citizen service where there is a hotline through which you can solve your problem. So we do not support the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165524	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430165543	Thank you very much. The Enhedslisten would like to thank you for making this proposal, which, in our opinion, points to a very real problem, which I also think the other rapporteurs have admitted more or less forcefully that we have, namely that for some of the citizens it has become considerably harder to get through to the public and deal with their case. And we in the Group of the European People's Party think that what is being proposed here is an excellent and viable path which we can support. What are the authors of the motion for a resolution saying? It is that the government is required to take the initiative to ensure that the community's citizens' services function as a coherent access to the public sector, with the possibility of personal citizen service at the turnout. And then you ask yourself, how hard can it be? In other words, it is a reasonable service to give citizens that they should not go from Herod to Pilate and get two different bodies to deal with a matter. This is what has happened to the structural changes that have taken place in the form of payments to Denmark. After all, what we do not hesitate to call compulsory digitalisation of the public sector has also happened. Now, according to the Minister, it has resulted in 90%. By the citizens, they have become digital and manage things on their own. And that's good. Whether they are particularly satisfied with being forced to do so is another matter. But we've gotten into the situation of 90%. By the citizens, things take care of themselves. There are then 10 per cent left, and these are the ones we find in the group of people who have difficulties in settling their cases, who cannot just figure out how to run around on websites and who may not have much profit or what to say about the possibility of biting and saying that they must have an answer and who may therefore give up before they have received an answer. So that is the 10% for which we need to find some good solutions. And that's all we're saying: Well, if it's only 10% that's left to be dealt with in a slightly more manpower-intensive way, then I guess it's not really a big problem to organize things, so that they 10 percent. gets easier access to solve their case. You can also put it up in such a way that if it is true that 300 million have been saved. kr. In this digitalization, why not, if it costs more money to make one entry into the public sector, use the 300 million? kr. to improve the conditions of the 10% that are still not included in the wonderful world of digitalisation? On the other hand, I have to say that this does not change our support for the proposal that unfortunately the Minister and others have a point when they say that if we are going to find the concrete solution here, we are going to have enough to break up some of what has been done, especially in relation to Payout Denmark. That is certainly the view of the Enhedslisten. And it will be interesting to hear how the Danish People's Party views it, because we believe that it is precisely the structural change with Payout Denmark that has created part of the problems that we are experiencing here, because there has just been some duplication of effort: two bodies working on matters in relation to the same citizen. We do not think this has been a strengthening of citizens' legal certainty or just a good service to provide citizens. It has become more incalculable for the citizens, where they can turn to solve their case. Perhaps not for the 90% who are easily able to cope with the digitalisation, but then for the 10% who are not easily aware of it. So we support the proposal, but I am excited to hear how the Danish People's Party believes it can be realised with the structural changes that the Danish People's Party itself has been involved in. The Danish People's Party has supported the establishment of Payout Denmark and the transfer of tasks, just as the Danish People's Party has also supported most of the forced digitalisation measures adopted here in Parliament. So I have some questions for the rapporteur about this when we get to that point. I would just like to say in conclusion that I find it a little strange that, on the one hand, we are saying that there are very good intentions in this, but on the other hand we are saying that we cannot support it until we know exactly how these intentions are to be implemented. Then it is as if you do not take the proposal at face value, which is that the proposers would like to get some initiatives started and then, of course, discuss them with the parties of the Folketing. If it is the case that in all cases, as individual members of parliament, we must have proposed a fixed and completed solution to the problems highlighted by the proposals, then creativity and debate will die. So I think that's a bad excuse. Then it was better to say: we are actively involved in the discussion of the proposal and see if we can help to qualify it. At least Enhedslisten will.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170106	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170114	I am not going to drag things out, because most good points have already been made by other rapporteurs, but I can sum up. In relation to the municipalities acting as access to Payout Denmark, it is already the municipalities' duty by law. In view of the fact that the municipalities can act as an entrance to SKAT, we have deliberately taken tax from the municipalities in recent years. I believe that the resources needed to ensure that the municipalities also have tax experts sitting in civic services are relatively large, and we do not support them being forced to do so. And then there is the last thing, namely that all the good that the municipalities can do for the citizens, they can do today if they want to do so, except that they must not lower the ground debt to less than 16 per thousand. So this can be done by the municipalities today, if they want to, and if you in a municipality think it's right to do this, then you're welcome to do it. We cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170218	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170223	Thank you, sir. President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting the item here for debate. After all, I think it is very important that we get the benefit of digitalisation, that we get people who can used to the digitalisation and use the Internet as much as possible, so that we save crew hours, that we save preparedness and that we save municipalities a great deal when we can do it through automation and digitalisation. And we have, of course, taken care of in this process, and especially in the Conservative People's Party, I would say, to ensure that those who cannot operate a computer and those who do not have a computer are taken care of. We have had a general debate about how the strategy to roll the digitisation out should be. It has happened over three packages, and it has been discussed in detail here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where we have always ensured that we did not move too quickly so that those who wanted to, but could not, could be released and exempted from the rule of compulsory digitalisation. As far as the motion for a resolution here is concerned, there are a great many good ideas and intentions in it, and I accept that. Because if it were the case that many people perceived that there could be no help from citizens' services in the case of Payout Denmark, then I think it would have been contrary to the legislation we had an expectation of there being. I have then also been confirmed by the Minister and it has been repeated in several places from the fact that there is legislation that obliges municipalities to deal with the questions and requests for help coming from citizens in the community service, and we must of course stick to that. And if sir... Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl has information that this does not happen, we must of course have looked at it, and then the municipalities must ensure that they provide that preparedness at all times. So we support that this is the way it is, because that is the way it should be. Of course, in any context, we must ensure that we are able to provide a place where citizens can go and get help and guidance when they need it. But we in the Conservative People's Party also believe that we have been involved in implementing the legislation that has been made. Then it remains to be seen whether it is also appropriate for SKAT to be helpful in civic service. It would be nice if this could also be done, but we believe that we must note that the tax area is so technical and so complicated that we have the SKAT itself with their own organisation. That is why it must be pointed out that this is where we have to turn, because the cost would be enormous if citizens' services were to deal with it. And I do not think it will be possible to ensure in an appropriate way that sufficient competent preparedness is available to the citizens, as the rapporteur for the proposers would have liked. It would be good if it could be done, in the best of all worlds. The fact is, however, that the tax area is so complicated and that there are so many factors that must be taken into account that it is just as wrong if you try to give a needy help in civil service, which then later turns out to be wrong, and you have to do it again. Then it is better to withdraw SKAT from the community service and then provide good advice, help and assistance at SKAT to handle everything that concerns SKAT. Otherwise it will be too expensive and too bureaucratic. That is our view, and that is why we cannot support that part and therefore not the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170544	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170549	Well, thank you for half the support, that's really nice. Then I am thinking of those citizens who do not participate in the digital system and who find it difficult to deal with their contacts with the public sector in general and who have a challenge in relation to the SKAT. Where do they have to go to meet a tax worker with whom they can get help? I am not saying that there should be a tax administration in the municipalities, as there were in the old days. That is not at all what this is about. It's about going in one place and finding someone who can actually help you deal with the challenges that are now, and using the hotline that might be for SKAT, and ensuring that things are solved. I hear the rapporteur say that this should not be dealt with in the municipality. Well, where is it that you can handle it for the citizen who can't handle it digitally, who can barely handle it via a phone, and who doesn't even have the opportunity to go and visit SKAT and have a chat with a person face to face?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170651	My answer, as I also tried to say in my rapporteur's speech, was that the citizen should turn to SKAT and get the assistance from there. If you can't do it digitally and you can't get anybody, then the municipality has to help you where you're excluded. You can apply for an exception, can't you? But whatever it is: On the bottom line of this motion for a resolution states that civil service must be able to handle annual statements and tax matters. We believe that it would be too expensive to impose on the municipalities to provide a civil service that would be able to fulfil the tasks that properly should be placed and handled by the SKAT as authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170738	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430170805	Thank you. And thank you for the many comments. I actually hear a lot of support, even though the resolution will not ultimately be supported. With this proposal, we in the Danish People's Party want to oblige the government to take the initiative to ensure that the local community's citizens' services function as a coherent access to the public sector with the possibility of personal civil service in attendance. All citizens with enquiries and enquiries to the public, whether it concerns problems with using NemID or other questions, should be able to approach the municipality's citizens' service and be served and have their inquiries dealt with. That is what most rapporteurs are saying today: that is already the case. After all, we have talked a great deal about the legislation that has been adopted on Disbursement Denmark and on SKAT, on digitisation and on efficiency, in which we have talked a lot about ensuring, of course, that all citizens can get the help they need. To some extent, there is also the possibility that municipalities can help citizens. There are the direct numbers for Payout Denmark • that's right and it all sounds really good. But there is just the problem that when you get out in reality, to the citizens who had to be helped, there are far too many examples that the systems do not work, that the citizens do not feel helped. I hear from citizens who are told by the municipality that they can just call Payout Denmark or SKAT, and then they experience that they do not get through there. I hear from citizens who contact Payout Denmark for clarification of the rules, for example. when they are going on a longer stay abroad and may be uncertain about their pension relationship, then they talk to a person in Payout Denmark who gives them an explanation. A few days later, they have a follow-up question. When they call, they can't talk to the same employee they did last time, and that means they have to start over. And the message they get about the rules of the employee that they can then talk to is not the same as they got from the first employee. I hear a lot of such stories, and for each one of them, of course, it is easy to say that a solution can be found. Staff must have better reference systems, there must be shorter telephone waiting times, call information must be better documented, etc. etc. I also see some signs that a perhaps more service-minded culture could be worked on, and that, of course, should also be worked on. I just have to say that we in the Danish People's Party have come to the conclusion that in this way it will never be good enough. For the vast majority of us and all of us in here, digital systems and telephone contact will almost always be sufficient and yet: What do we do when it really burns on? Then, of course, we need real people to be able to get the dialogue that makes it possible to find out what to do and how to understand the process or the guidance or the decision. Today, fortunately, we still have civil service in the municipalities, although it has been severely cut as a result of the transfer of tasks to, among others. Disbursement Denmark. In the community service they can help with many things, but there are also many tasks where they may refer to Payout Denmark or SKAT, and then it is not good enough. We in the Danish People's Party believe that digitalisation can be used for a great deal, and of course we as a society must also use the tools available, but we should not go so far as to create a society that does not contain human contact and where we sit behind each of our small screens and manage everything. There I have to say two things: 1) There is and will always be a group for whom it will never be possible to operate a computer, and 2) it is actually not such a society I want. I want to live in a community where there is a physical door to the public nearby that I can walk in; behind that door there must be a real person with whom I can talk and who can really help me with what I need help with from the public. I want to live in a society where I can tell old Mrs. Hansen or young Peter that they can safely walk through the door of the municipality's civic service and expect there to be people in there who can and will help them all the way through. It's nice with technology and machines, and that I have a choice, wherever I am, to get my tax return or my application for housing benefits done, but it has to be my choice or we'll end up with an inhuman society. That is why we in the Danish People's Party say that the local community's citizens' service must be able to carry out all the types of tasks with which citizens need to approach the municipality and the public authorities. It will primarily be a relatively small group of citizens who cannot operate digitally, for example. by using NemID, which for this reason needs to be contacted in person. They may also be citizens who, despite being able to serve themselves via the Internet, are still left with questions that they would like to have answered or would like to have resolved by speaking face to face with an employee. In the Danish People's Party, we believe it is important that the citizens, many of whom already have anguish of contact with the public, who have come forward in civic service for help, should not just be passed on in the system to another body. Civil service must be the door to the public that citizens must use and where they can find the right, living people who must be able to remedy their problems. The Danish People's Party believes that the first step towards a solution could be to ensure that the municipalities have real access to the necessary information and systems so that the municipal citizens' service can help citizens through personal service. It must be ensured that the municipalities actually have the technical and competence possibilities to carry out the task as an intermediary between the citizen and, for example, the public. Payout Denmark or SKAT. So this does not mean that the case handling should be moved back to the municipalities, but the municipal employee should have the opportunity to contact SKAT, contact Payout Denmark on behalf of the citizen and clarify matters so that it is not the citizen who is forced to run between the agencies. The prerequisite for success is to ensure that the task is carried out in close and binding cooperation between municipalities, Payout Denmark and SKAT. As a starting point, Dansk Folkeparti believes that the task of the municipality must be solved with the resources already used today. To the extent that the efforts of the municipalities release resources at SKAT and Payout Denmark, they can be returned to the municipalities. This will be of benefit and benefit to the citizens, and that is why we have a public sector that must be of benefit and benefit to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171432	There are two brief points to make, Mr President. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171432-2	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal and its intentions. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party agrees that you have been involved in creating part of the problem yourself, by voting in favour of the creation of Payout Denmark, and by supporting the majority of the forced digitalisation that has been rolled over the Danish population in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171501	I would like to thank you for the support of the Enhedslisten. It is absolutely true that we have consistently voted in favour of these proposals. And a long way along the way, it's for me to look really good with these systems where you and I can treat ourselves, I was just about to say, treat our cases digitally and get a lot of things done, so we make it simplest possible for society. That's a really good thing. What is left is the few percent of citizens, the few cases where you actually need help from a real person, get help to deal with your case, get a dialogue about it. That is where we say we have to take a step back and say that we have probably pulled a little too much away from civic service, from the municipalities. We have dragged it too far away from the citizens in those situations. And that is why we would like to say with this that we need to say that citizens' service should be the intermediary that ensures that as a citizen you can manage and resolve your problems by entering the community service and by helping you with contact with the professionals in Payout Denmark or in SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171607	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171608	Thank you for your answer, which I see as at least a certain concession to Enhedslisten's criticism when we discussed the proposals for Payout Denmark and all these forced digitalisation proposals. It is not for the rapporteur to be put at the disadvantage of putting forward a proposal which could perhaps be used to correct any of it. So we would like to support that. But then I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the rapporteur is saying to the arguments from the government and also from some of the other rapporteurs that this proposal cannot be implemented at all without breaking up the structure that has now been created with Payout Denmark and with SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171651-2	Actually, I don't think that's true. I don't think we have to break up the structure as such. It is also said from several rapporteurs that the problem is not there at all, after all, because citizens' services have hotlines for both SKAT and Payout Denmark, and they can sort it all out. Then I think it might be a matter of just making it work. It wasn't supposed to be a big problem. Then we should also be able to support this proposal, because then the solution lies just in front of us. It's almost made. So it is of course about ensuring that the municipalities have the opportunity to have the access to Payout Denmark and to SKAT so that they can solve the tasks. And it is not because there is necessarily so much to do, but it requires a clear message from this that it must be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171739	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171741	Thank you. The rapporteur himself said in his speech that this could be difficult, for example. to find out if you could take your pension abroad. So, if you go to Payout Denmark's website, there are actually 13 questions that are formulated in the direction of: What can I bring? Where can I take it? Does it go beyond my personal allowances etc.? And the last question is that if you have any further questions, you are very welcome to contact Payout Denmark by phone. I think that is actually very good service, and I think the rapporteur speaks Payout Denmark and their employees a little under the carpet here in relation to the service they actually provide and to the service that is also available on the website. So my question is a little bit: what exactly is it that is being implemented or amended with this proposal? Because, as the rapporteur himself has said, all these things which, as I hear, lie in the intentions of the proposal can be implemented today. What exactly is it that people want to do differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171838	It is that it is ensured that the citizen who cannot go to a website and look up the answers to those questions, and who may also today call Payout Denmark and get one answer one day and the other answer the other day, can more readily enter citizen service, and that it is the citizen service employee who ensures that it is the right information that you get from Payout Denmark and that you get the same information every time that way around. So it's basically about ensuring that Payout Denmark can provide that service to citizens' service. And this requires closer cooperation between Payout Denmark and the local community's citizens' service, so that it can be done. And then it requires that citizens' services also have access to information so that they can actually give citizens the help they need when they get in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171930	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430171931	But there is nothing to prevent that from happening today, as the rapporteur says. There are, of course, precisely the possibilities, on the one hand, that you are actually entitled to it as a citizen, and, on the other hand, that there are these telephone lines, that there are opening hours, that there are the physical facilities, there are telephone numbers and everything. I do not see what we do not have today and what the rapporteur is proposing here. About forced digitization, as Mr. Finn Sørensen calls it, I just want to say that I don't think you should go this far outside these walls and to many families with children, for example. to find someone who is incredibly happy that you have been given the opportunity to communicate with the public digitally 24-7. I think you should really appreciate that. I don't think they see this as forced digitalization in any way whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430172010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430172011	Basically, I think that a lot of people are really happy that you can do things digitally. In a lot of contexts, many of us think it's super good. But that does not mean that it should work for those who do not think it is good and those who do not have the opportunity to do so. And if sir... Helge Vagn Jacobsen will say that everything is in place. It does not really fit in with what I hear from the real world. If that is the case, then I do not understand why you do not support the motion for a resolution, because then it is here. Then you can support it and challenge it at that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430172048	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430172102	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 5 May 2015. First of all, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten, for reasons of the query.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430172133	Thank you. Today's debate is, of course, about how we in Denmark should deal with the economic crisis that is in Europe and, in particular, about how we should deal with what is happening in the hard-hit countries and, above all, in Greece, which is, of course, a central debate in Europe right now. There are several reasons why this is an interesting debate. After all, the Danish economy is closely linked to the European economy, and it can be felt when several of our European neighbours are in deep economic crisis. The euro countries and, unfortunately, Denmark too, because of the financial pact, have increasingly become subject to the EU's economic governance and have followed the EU's crisis policy based on cuts in public spending. In recent years, this austerity policy has met with growing criticism because unemployment and social deprivation have exploded, while in many of the countries in crisis the debt ratio has risen. At the last Greek election, the Greek people opted out of this austerity policy. Rather than making savings, the desire was to find the money from the richest Greeks and to take action against corruption and tax havens that have plagued the Greek economy for decades. The new Greek Government has put forward a number of proposals for radical economic reforms and, in February, agreed with the Eurogroup. It was an interim agreement which, however, has since then met a great deal of criticism and opposition from both the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. The international institutions have criticised the reform plans of the Greek Government. Instead, these institutions wanted the Greeks to have pension reductions and continued savings made. This is of course interesting because today's debate is thus both about politics and about democracy. The question is whether we can get the wheels going in Denmark if there is recession and decline in many countries in Europe. And the question is whether the people around the EU Member States are allowed to choose economic policy in democratic elections and whether the people are allowed to opt out of the austerity policy desired in Brussels. It is a debate that rushes forward with full force around Europe, not least in other hard-hit countries in southern Europe and Ireland. Now the debate is also coming to the Folketing, and I look forward to hearing what the parties have to say to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430172428	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430172440	I welcome the opportunity here today to debate Greece and, in a broader sense, the situation of vulnerable countries and the work to ensure growth and employment. I should also like to thank the authors of the question for having understood on an earlier occasion that we will only have the debate today. I would like to begin by saying that the current debate on the Greek elections is, of course, primarily about the way forward for the European loan to Greece, which has only been granted by the euro area countries. Denmark alone contributes through the IMF loan, which is why it is not for us in principle to give advice to euro area countries on how to deal with their lending. On 20 February the euro area countries concluded an agreement with the new Greek Government to extend the existing loan programme by four months until the end of June. This makes it possible to complete the outstanding review of the programme and to pay out outstanding funds to Greece. In the follow-up to the agreement with the Eurogroup, Greece has presented preliminary lists of the reform priorities it wishes to implement. It is, however, a prerequisite for payment under the programme that Greece should adequately implement these reforms, so that it is clear that they are making the necessary adjustments. This process and dialogue are continuing, and of course everyone hopes that it will lead to a sensible solution to the situation. However, the more fundamental debate today is probably about how our EU cooperation works and how we work together to tackle the crisis. I welcome this debate because it may give us the opportunity to resolve a number of misunderstandings. The first misunderstanding is that aid from the euro area countries to Greece should in itself be the problem. So it's turning things all the way upside down. Greece came out of its own hands in serious economic trouble in the context of the crisis. It had nothing to do with banks. More public money was spent on an ongoing basis than revenue and too little had been done to support sustainable growth and employment in the form of good framework conditions and sound structures. And in 2010 the situation became unsustainable and Greece could no longer finance itself on the market. This has to do with the fact that for a number of years the figures for the public deficit had been actually cheated, and that is not something that creates confidence anywhere. A major loan was granted to Greece. The aim was to give Greece time to recover and to avoid immediate adjustment, which had been very serious for Greek citizens. Without loans and market access, there would have been a need to strike an immediate balance between expenditure and revenue, and this would have meant far more drastic fiscal austerity. Greece lacked money, the euro area countries borrowed money from Greece, and I believe that this is an expression of great solidarity, just as it was an expression of a common interest in resolving the problems. The loan is self-help. It's not a grant. It must be temporary and therefore the loans require that underlying problems be resolved. A balance must be struck between public expenditure and revenue, and action must be taken to increase growth and employment potential. Has this resulted in paradise on earth in Greece? No, of course it hasn't. The Greek people have undergone considerable adjustments which are not enviable, but the situation would have been much worse without the loan programme. Another misunderstanding is that it should be wrong for the euro area countries to insist that the loan programme should continue in some form or other, given that there is a completely new government that wants something different from the old one. Let me make it clear that the Danish Government, like the other EU countries, naturally respects the outcome of the Greek elections and looks forward to working with the new government, which is already in full swing. However, Greece's economic challenges are the same, regardless of who forms the government, and the gap between revenue and expenditure is the same, and therefore the need for external financing is also the same. The basic conditions for the loan programme are, and it is also customary for new governments to stand by agreements made by previous governments, which were also democratically elected. This is also true here. After all, a new Danish government cannot ask for a line to be struck over public debt created by a previous government. The terms of the loan programme are not dictated by the euro area countries, by the ECB or the IMF. They are designed at the time in dialogue with Greece, and the emphasis can then be placed differently according to political preferences. It can be noted that the agreement of the euro area countries with the new Greek Government to continue the loan programme also provides for the possibility of changing measures into the programme, provided that they deliver the same effect and take place in dialogue with the other euro area countries. No one is preventing the Greek Government from putting even greater emphasis on combating tax fraud and corruption, on the contrary. It has always been part of the programme to combat corruption and ensure a proper tax system, and this has been something that the institutions, the Commission, the ECB and the IMF, and the other countries, have attached great importance to. If the new government is better at this than the old governments, the other euro countries will certainly take a positive view of the fact that there is now a government delivering what they have always proposed. The new Greek Government therefore has a good opportunity to make new or better efforts. A third misunderstanding is that Greece is now in a totally impossible and unsustainable situation, which there is no way out without debt relief. It's not obvious. Public debt is relatively high, but Greece's current repayment and interest payments are less than those of several other euro area countries, such as Greece. Italy and Portugal. This does not therefore constitute a separate problem for Greece. This is mainly because euro area countries' loans have low interest rates and very long repayment periods. Greece is much better placed to put the crisis behind it today than in the past on the basis of the loan programme. A precondition for Greece's progress will, however, be the consistent implementation of the ongoing adjustment. The new government has implemented fiscal easing and the roll-back of already implemented structural reforms, which point in the wrong direction and adversely affect debt sustainability. A relaxation of the fiscal policy in Greece also increases Greece's financing needs. As long as Greece has not built up sufficient confidence to finance itself on the market, the money can only come from the other euro countries. Some of the other euro area countries, which may be asked to finance Greece's fiscal easing and/or debt relief, are less prosperous than Greece, and some countries themselves have been through similar adjustments in the wake of the crisis. This applies, for example, to the Baltic countries, of which only Latvia received assistance from outside. The countries that have been through programmes and adjustments, such as Portugal, Ireland, Spain and the Baltic States, are currently among those where GDP growth and employment are highest. They have worked hard, as it were, to get in shape to catch up. Experience has shown that the more consistent and consistent a recovery is achieved, the safer the way back to renewed growth and employment. This also applies to ourselves in Denmark. The loan programme for Greece and other vulnerable EU countries is not alone. In the wake of the crisis, we in the European Union have carried out a number of important strengthenings of our economic cooperation. Much more attention has been paid to preventing situations where countries end up in such a mess as is the case in Greece. This applies, first and foremost, to the focus on sound public finances through the strengthened Stability and Growth Pact and the Financial Pact. However, this also applies to addressing other macroeconomic imbalances such as housing bubbles, loss of competitiveness, etc., which have also been a major part of the problem in several countries. A significant strengthening of financial regulation and supervision has been achieved and a banking union has been established. Finally, much better crisis management tools have also been developed in the form of the ESM loan facility of the euro area countries, and the ECB's monetary policy toolbox has been expanded with the possibility of buying out government bonds, etc. Most recently, the Commission has proposed a forward-looking investment plan which we adopted at ECOFIN in March and which is now being negotiated with the European Parliament. Together with the concrete implementation of growth-friendly consolidation and structural reforms in individual countries, these measures have, in my clear belief, helped to restore confidence and to support a dawning economic recovery. There are no easy solutions in Greece, at home or for the EU as a whole to ensure sustainable growth and employment. I sincerely hope that the Greek Government and the people will succeed and have the will to find a way forward with sustainable growth and employment within the framework of the European Union and euro cooperation, so that Greece too can gradually put the crisis behind it. The agreement between the Eurogroup and Greece on the extension of the recovery programme has so far provided the basis for Greece to formulate and implement the reforms essential for achieving sustainable growth and employment. It is therefore important that Greece now devotes its time wisely to doing just that, and that is what we are all currently waiting for them to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430173340	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate. The first is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430173404	The European Union is currently making completely unreasonable demands on Greece. It's not really about the economy, it's about politics. Contrary to what is often claimed, it is of course important to note that the Greek Government has in fact repeatedly stressed the desire to pay off debts. The new Greek Government simply wants to find a realistic way of doing so. This must be a way that can actually be implemented. The question is therefore quite fundamental: what part of Greek society should pay for the crisis. That was the question that was discussed in the last Greek election. The question was whether it should be the Greek elite or the people in crisis who should stand up to it. The Greeks made a choice, and the new Greek Government has then been under massive pressure from the EU elite to continue a course of austerity with a massive social battle which the Greek people had actually rejected. That policy had been abandoned because it has led to a genuine humanitarian crisis in the population. The cuts made in recent years have had very severe human consequences for the Greek population. They have also had this in other EU countries in crisis. The situation in Greece, for example, has been that children have appeared hungry in schools, that the elderly cannot afford their medicines, and that disease epidemics we have not known in Europe have again begun to ravage, while the suicide rate has grown explosively. Until now, the Danish Government and most recently the Prime Minister have been side by side with the German Conservative Chancellor, Angela Merkel, in the pressure against Greece. The European elite has been sidelined against the Greek people. But there is a need to go another way if Greece and if Europe and Denmark are to leave the crisis, because austerity policy has not worked. It has neither boosted the economy nor helped to reduce the debt. The cuts in public budgets have hampered growth and employment throughout Europe. For example, the debt in Greece has exploded under the austerity programmes. Since 2008, the Greek national product has fallen by more than 25%. 25% recession. The Greek government debt continues to rise and today stands at 175%. of gross domestic product. The EU elite is so blinded by the neoliberal austerity rate that it has no eyes at all to see that there could be other ways out that could actually work. You close your eyes to reality and insist on keeping the general population in an economic situation that hinders the momentum of the economy in Denmark and Europe. I think it is important for us here in the Danish Parliament and for the Danish Government to have the courage to demand a way out of the crisis of solidarity which respects democratic decisions. The new Greek Government, unlike former Conservative and Socialist Greek governments, wants to find a solution with progressive taxation so that the Greek elite, the so-called oligarchy, which has a very central responsibility for corruption and tax evasion in Greece, can no longer break free from the tax system. However, the EU refuses to cooperate with the new Greek Government to avert the humanitarian crisis. It is said that the idea of introducing progressive taxation is simply not an acceptable way forward. Instead, it insists on pushing through more privatisations, lower minimum wages and more expensive electricity. But why is it that progressive taxation cannot be a good way out of the crisis? Why is it that progressive taxation cannot be a good way out of the crisis when that is what the voters have chosen? This is a good question, because in the European debate on the crisis, Greece has basically become an important symbol of the existence of alternatives to austerity policy. Basically, I think that is what annoys so many people in Brussels. Because if the people of Greece are allowed to go another way, what will the people of Spain, Portugal, Ireland and other hard-hit countries do? They'll probably follow. That is probably really the fear in Brussels. My fear, however, is that if we accept that the EU elite blackmails and overrides the electorate's choices, we might as well wave goodbye to democracy. I think it is important for the electorate to be able to take democratic decisions, to decide what economic policy should be from election to election, and I understand that the Greek electorate has chosen a new path. I think it is both human and financially responsible, and I therefore believe that it is important that we take a democratic responsibility to respect the decisions of the electorate. I would therefore like, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, to make the following proposals for adoption. It reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The financial crisis and austerity policy have led to high levels of unemployment and social distress in many EU countries. Parliament therefore calls on the government to work to promote employment and social recovery. Against this background, we call on the government to reject the EU's unreasonable demands for Greece to cut welfare, reduce agreements and sell out public values. The European Union must respect the democratic choices of the Greek people. • V 45).
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174009	A proposal for adoption has now been tabled and will be included in the further discussion. There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174018	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Nikolaj Villumsen. I fully share the concern for the Greek people and the task they are facing to get back on their feet. But then I actually think that agreement will end. I think it seems rather paradoxical that, in this situation, the Enhedslisten, which is an arg opponent of the European Union, suddenly places the EU in charge of saving a country's economy. After all, it is a rather paradoxical situation that, on the one hand, the European Union should not be there at all and, on the other hand, it should not interfere with everything and, on the other hand, it should solve the economic problems of the European countries. I simply do not understand that. The rapporteur is quite well aware of the Greek situation, so the second question I have is what would have happened if Greece had not been able to obtain the loans from the euro area countries and from the IMF that they have obtained. What does the rapporteur think would have happened in Greece?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174116	I can certainly say that if you are a French or German bank, which is the money owed by the Greek Treasury, it is very good that you had your national government and the other euro countries to lend the Greeks money, because since then it has been the banks that have received 90%. of the money sent by the euro area countries to the Greeks. The situation is, of course, that the majority of the money paid to Greece by the euro area countries is just passing through Athens, after which they will return to Frankfurt and Paris. It's convenient if you're a bank. It is just not very good if you are a Greek pensioner who gets cut down in his old-age pension and who can no longer have access to the necessities of life medicine. After all, the situation is that joining the euro has had major consequences for Greece. After all, I have always been opposed to the euro because I believe that euro cooperation gives priority to economic considerations, for example, in order to combat unemployment. That is what we can see happening in Greece right now. The priority is to cut back and make savings. I spoke to the Greek Minister for Health a few months ago. They have cut 58 per cent under the previous government. in the Greek health budget. It just hasn't helped to get a lower debt. That is why the question is whether we should not try to make it possible for the newly elected Greek Government to go another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174241	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174242	I do not think we will ever agree on the latter, i.e. on how to balance your economy, because it seems to be a completely different path. After all, there is a political difference between how you think you get a balance and how you think you create reforms. That's fair enough. This is true both in Greece and for that matter in Denmark. I do not think that the rapporteur has so much to say about the first question I asked, namely the paradox that, on the one hand, you are an opponent of the European Union and, on the other hand, you point out that the solution that exists for Greece is a support from the European Union. How can this be connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174314	The situation is that Greece is subject to the EU's economic governance. And what we are discussing today is the reason why it is not possible to decide, from election to election, what economic policy should be pursued in one's country, but that it should be dictated from Brussels. That is my criticism, not least because the policy that has been dictated has proved to be as misguided as it has been. It is not the case that the debt has fallen in Greece. It is not the case that the economy has got off the ground. The situation is that in recent years there has been a recession of 25%. And I just think that when you have made such a failed policy and when the voters want to go another way, we must democratically respect it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174401	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174402	Thank you. I think it's interesting to hear sir. Nikolaj Villumsen is talking about the fact that, on the one hand, we have the European elite and, on the other hand, we have the Greek people. I assume, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen agrees with me that all the governments of Europe have been elected democratically, so if you are going to use that rhetoric, it must be either the Greek elite against the European elite, or it must be the Greek people on the one hand and the rest of the people of Europe on the other. It cannot be said that in the rest of Europe it is the elite and that in Greece it is the people. It's a nonsense rhetorical. I hope that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen agrees with me that this is the case. But what I really wanted to ask is what, sir? Nikolaj Villumsen believes that the Greek Government is preventing it from pursuing a more progressive tax policy, if that is what it wants, and becoming more effective in collecting taxes. I really believe that the rest of Europe would appreciate the fact that in Greece they will be more effective in collecting taxes. After all, we can be indifferent and the euro countries cannot care how Greece balances its budget. They'll have to, as long as they get a balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174513	The interesting thing is that there was actually an agreement between the new Greek Government and the euro group back in February. The Greek Government then made a large number of reforms, and the Eurogroup said that it is sensible; it is good that you want to fight corruption; it is good that you want to fight tax havens, etc. Since then, additional demands have been made by the European Commission, and this is where I think we can talk about an elite who is not elected by the people. As you know, the European Commission is not elected by the people, but a number of demands are made on the Greeks, who have nothing to do with the economy but have something to do with politics. Why demand from the Greeks that they reduce their pension rather than tax the richest? Why demand from the Greeks that they keep the minimum wage down, lower it more, make the labour market more precarious, instead of guaranteeing the right to collective agreements? After all, it is politics, and the European Commission chooses to say: if you do not follow our policy, you cannot get financial support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174617	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174617-2	What is the case is that there has always been an agreement with the Greek Government to carry out reforms, and it has been wanted to make sure that it was reforms that actually led to a balance in the economy and that they could pay off their debts. That doesn't change because there's a new government coming. After all, a new government must be committed to the agreements reached by the old government. And, of course, if you want some new things, you have to convince those with whom you have an agreement that the new elements are at least as good as the elements of the old agreement. There is nothing to stop the Greeks, for example. to make their tax collection more efficient or to create a more progressive tax system. They can do that. That's up to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174705	What is actually so paradoxical in many ways is that the former Greek Government, which, like everyone who would just spend a few minutes on it, could clearly see was deeply, deeply corrupt, was clearly supported by the European Union in the 2012 elections. You knew these people were deeply corrupt. I myself have been to Greece talking to the representatives of the Troika. You said that we had completely underestimated the programme that we ended up putting forward, that is, the violent corruption that was in Greece. This meant that our programme has basically not been linked and that the richest part of the population has not contributed to paying the bill for the economic crisis. Some people are trying to change that now, and there is the situation so that it is not accepted by the European Union, but instead it makes other political demands that can cause the economy to collapse completely in Greece in a moment. I think that is remarkable. Why make these political demands instead of focusing on a realistic solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174805	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we go to the rapporteur's line as such, and the first is Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430174818	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to Enhedslisten for calling a debate on e.g. Greece's situation. The question may seem so slightly distant from the general political jurisdiction of the Folketing, as Denmark does not participate in the euro group and therefore actually has one, we should say modest influence on the issue that Enhedslisten has chosen to raise today. On the other hand, I believe, as we have already seen, that the debate reveals some differences here in the Danish Parliament as to what you think is right and what you think is reasonable differences which it is very beneficial to bring to light. In the Left we have the basic view that as a politician, as a citizen, as an individual, we must live up to our promises and commitments. You have to keep what you promise, because otherwise we end up with a society in chaos where we don't trust each other. And that is no different when it comes to international cooperation and to the obligations of a democratically elected government of a country of its own free will. That is why it does not change the fact that there has been a new left-wing government in Greece. The bill is the same, and bills must be paid. If new governments could have closed public debt, the whole foundation of all international cooperation ceased; then all logic, all rational thinking ceased. If we look at Greece's very unhappy situation, we can see that it has been a long time in the process, and there is one thing that is absolutely indisputable, and that is that it is self-inflicted. The tragedy took its origins back in 2001, when Greece dropped its drachmas and became part of the euro cooperation on one, we have to say, a perceptive basis, a fact which subsequently became quite obvious when Greece recognised in 2004 that it had not complied with the rules for participating in the euro cooperation. And with Greece's membership of the euro, the start was the start of a massive over-consumption which Greece is still suffering today, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen also illustrated it in his speech. Let me stress once again that no one forced Greece to take these measures because of the low interest rates that euro membership brought with it, which in turn increased quite explosively when investors lost confidence in the unsustainable Greek economy in the outbreak of the financial crisis. Despite an irresponsible fiscal policy, however, Greece was not left to itself when the crisis first began. No, Greece received artificial breath from the euro area countries and from the IMF in the form of billion-dollar loans, which today keep the public sector alive and which have meant that Greece has avoided the total collapse; loans, which of course have to be repaid, as they are guaranteed by very solidarity taxpayers in the other euro area countries. So you might ask: what exactly does Enhedslisten imagine as another way, as an alternative? Is this another debt relief, or is it allowing countries such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, which are poorer than Greece, to pay the bill, or Slovenia or Slovakia? May I ask Enhedslisten where the solidarity is in it. I admit that Greece's situation is tragic, but it is wrong to claim that it is due to forced German austerity policy. Greece has already received one debt relief and today, despite its high public debt, has interest costs which are lower than those of Italy and Portugal, and this is because euro area countries' loans have been granted on quite favourable terms and conditions which could never be matched if Greece had to have the same loans on the international credit markets. The truth is often badly heard, but there is no shortcut out of the crisis for Greece. The solution is certainly not this typical rhetoric from the Enhedslisten and the other European left, where you just promise more money to the citizens without a single word about where that money will come from. The new Greek Government's plans to roll back reforms already carried out and increased public spending are the sure path to economic ruin and chaos. The only realistic solution to the debt issue is that countries such as Greece are fulfilling their commitments by implementing reforms that can provide a new foundation for confidence, growth and employment. With the permission of the President, I will read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of V, S, RV, SF and KF: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to work actively in the EU to strengthen European growth and employment, combat the crisis and address the debt challenges in Greece and other countries. The Folketing supports the work of the EU to ensure measures that promote productive investment and economic sustainability, as well as compliance with EU fiscal rules. The Folketing expresses its full support for a sustainable solution to Greece's continuing economic challenges. It is in everyone's interest to find solutions that are sustainable both in the short and long term. The solution to Greece's economic challenges is primarily up to Greece itself within the framework of an agreement with the other euro area countries which, through large-scale loans, support Greece in a gradual and lasting adjustment of the Greek economy. • V 46).
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175410	A proposal for adoption has now been tabled and will be included in the further debate and in the debate on the question. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175422	Thank you. What I find a little interesting to hear is that the Left has a clear belief that the policy that has so far proved ineffective will work in the future. The situation is, of course, that there has been a recession of 25%. in Greece with the policy which the Left believes should continue. There is a situation where the debt in relation to gross domestic product has exploded during these reforms. Why pursue a policy which has proved to be unsolvable?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175459-2	Dear sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, it is not because of savings that you have ended up in this situation. You've gotten into this situation because you've spent money you don't have. What we are proposing is not totally unreasonable, it is quite basic, it is something I do at home in my own economy; I do not spend money I do not have. That is what we are demanding and reasonably expecting from Greece. And no, that policy has not failed. That policy is necessary if we are to be able to afford to make investments to provide jobs. You can't just use something you don't have, 'cause who's gonna pay for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175544	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175545	There is no doubt that the former Conservative Government and the former Socialist governments in Greece have put the country in a really, really untenable situation. However, I would just like to say that there has then been an insistence on the European Union to pursue a specific policy to solve that problem. That policy has turned out not to work, and then you insist on pursuing the policy, and that is where I wonder. Why not deal with reality, look at the debt has increased, look at the fact that there is a massive recession and then try to make it possible to choose a different path? Why is the Left insisting on a policy that has proved ineffective?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175626	I repeat myself a little, but it is also something that is fundamentally incomprehensible to the Enhedslisten. So you cannot spend money that you do not have and you cannot insist on a policy that cannot be done. Look, the policy we're proposing is that you have the money in the box before you use it. It is not such a completely insane and insane liberalist view; it is common sense, common sense, which even socialists can endorse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175656	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430175705	After that, I think we need a Socialist in the chair. The reality is that all EU countries have a great interest in finding a solution that ensures stability in Greece, of course, but also in the euro area. As far as Denmark's participation is concerned, it has already been announced today by the Minister, we have only granted loans to Greece through our commitments in the IMF. That is why the question of the Greek loan programme is therefore a matter between the new Greek Government and the other euro countries, and Denmark, as you know, is not participating in this. But, of course, we on the part of the Social Democrats, like the other EU countries, respect the outcome of the elections that have been held and, I must say, also look forward to continued cooperation with the new Greek Government to address the challenges that Greece faces. There should be no doubt whatsoever that significant economic adjustments have, of course, been made in Greece since the start of the crisis, but we must also be honest and say that further improvements, consolidations and reforms are certainly still needed in Greece. Let me stress that we do not regard the loan programme as part of the problem, rather, on the contrary. The reality is that, as the Minister also said, Greece would be worse off without the loan programme. And that is why we must be pleased with the considerable solidarity that other countries have shown in Greece, not least the citizens of the euro area, in a very, very difficult situation. Of course, we all want Greece to be able to put the crisis behind it as quickly as possible, and the reality is that Greece today, as the Minister also pointed out, is much better placed to put the crisis behind it than it would have been if the loan programme had not been granted. It is important to stress that the consistent implementation of the adaptation programme will be a prerequisite for Greece's continued progress. There are also other countries that have been in significant crisis. Ireland and Portugal are out of their loan programmes. Spain has carried out a clean-up in their financial sector, which we have heard a great deal about, and restored confidence in it. The Baltic countries have faced similar challenges. The real challenge here, as has already been pointed out, is not the current size of the debt, but rather the Greek Government's desire to relax financial policy, to roll back structural reforms, which will make it really harder to maintain debt sustainability and will call into question the entire recovery of the Greek economy. Therefore, those who think otherwise owe it to those who actually explain how they think a solution should be coherent. In view of this, the Socialists naturally agree with the proposal for adoption just now put forward by the rapporteur on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180010	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180014	Thank you. That's one of them. is the conflict right now, is that there is a requirement for Greece to reduce pensions and reduce labour market conditions in relation to professional rights. Why is this demand acceptable to the Socialists? So why exactly are the two prerequisites absolutely necessary for Greece to borrow money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180045	The Socialists and the Danish Social Democrats, as I emphasised, have nothing to do with this. We are not part of the euro group. Well, that's a pretty good idea, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen put that question to the members of the Eurogroup. We respect the choice that has been made. We hope that the new Greek Government can see the sense and contribute to the recovery of the Greek economy. What is real is that, as I said in my speech, if Greece had not had this loan programme, the problems would have been much, much greater not only for Greece but indeed for the Greek population as well. That is why we all agree that the government should ensure that stability is restored in relation to the Greek economy. In fact, I do not think it is fair to say that someone feels that the EU is acting unsolidarously. The citizens of the euro group, hard-working employees, pay to get Greece back on its feet. It is solidarity that wants something. That is where I simply fail to understand the Enhedslisten's approach to this idea that hard-working workers, factory workers in Germany, Portugal, the Baltic countries, other parts of the euro group should almost be vilified that they have given a huge loan programme to a Greek nation that was on the verge of bankruptcy and that would be even more difficult if they did not get the solidarity and helping hand from hard-working workers in the euro group countries. That is an enormous solidarity of assistance to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180213	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180214	I am not scolding hard-working workers around Europe. But I can see the reason why the new Greek Government is saying that it might actually be nice that we could get to a place where we got this debt paid off; should we not try to get there in a realistic way? What is a little interesting is that in February the Eurogroup made an agreement with the Greek Government on a large number of radical reforms, including those relating to agriculture. radical reforms aimed at ending the lack of tax payments and major corruption problems. There was no demand from the euro group at that time for there to be pension reductions or worse conditions in the labour market and more uncertainty. This is a demand which has come to light later on. It is a requirement which, among other things, is: is proposed by the European Commission, and I am aware that Denmark is part of the European Union and can therefore also mean something about what the European Commission has to make of demands. I am just surprised that the Danish Government and the Danish Social Democratic Party can accept that it should be a requirement that is the prerequisite for a loan package. Is it not unwise and unsocialist to demand pension reductions and lower security in the labour market as a prerequisite for loans?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180328-2	It is very socialist to emphasise in a situation where one country is so difficult to find, as is the fact that the other euro countries show a great deal of solidarity with this country. The reality is that there are other countries that have been through the same thing and have gone through the problems without what we have seen from Greece. That is why again: I find it difficult to understand the view of Enhedslisten here, and I do, because I do not believe that it is particularly solidarity to ask to be allowed to evade its obligations, to evade its own actions and the reasons which led to one getting into the problems in which one is in. You have a responsibility to help clean this up yourself, and then you are so fortunate in this situation that there is so much solidarity from the Member States of the Eurogroup and from hard-working workers in these countries that they want to contribute to the recovery of Greece. I think this is an expression of European solidarity, and I do not understand why the Enhedslisten does not support it to a greater extent than they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180431	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180437	Thank you. I really think it is quite excellent that Enhedslisten has asked this question. We all know that there are countries that are having a really hard time in the European Union. However, when we continue to do so, I must admit that I am probably reasonably opposed to the Enhedslisten, despite the fact that sometimes, when it comes to the European Union, we have some sort of community in relation to it. I simply do not understand that there is no understanding on the part of the Enhedslisten that once you have borrowed money, you have to pay it back. That's actually logical, we all have to. On the other hand, I believe that the biggest problem for Greece was that they entered the euro. But that was something the Greeks chose for themselves. This is probably also the biggest problem for them in terms of getting out of the situation they are in, because they gave some wrong information and were actually in a rather worse situation than they could be in to be able to enter the euro. That is the big problem, because now they are subject to a single currency, which I know both Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti are against, and so they are also subject to the demands that are now being made when you have a single currency, which among other things. is one of the reasons why we in the Danish People's Party certainly do not want it. It's the way it is. But we ourselves have wanted to participate in a single currency, and we must also be aware that then there are requirements that must be met, and they must also be met. I have a great deal of sympathy for the Greeks in terms of getting rid of that debt. I was reading an article, and just in May they're gonna have to find about 6 billion. EUR of which they have to pay. It is therefore a great deal of money and it is clear that they have problems with it. They have received two aid packages, which total 240 billion. euro. That's a lot of money. But it is clear that when you help people who are in need, or people who need loans, because that is what Greece has, you also have to demand that they pay them back, otherwise the systems will become a little weird. Enhedslisten says we need another way. Again, I believe that if the Greeks had gone another way, they should never have been part of the euro. They certainly don't have the opportunity now unless they leave it. I don't really know if I think that's a good idea or a bad one. At any rate, it can cause some instability. I think it'll be good for the Greeks, but it's my but I'm not an economist, and I don't know if that's the whole truth. I would say that, when the Enhedslisten is slightly blaming Greece for being faced with reform requirements relating to pensions and the labour market and saying that these are policy areas, it is true that it is policy. But it's also economics. We can see it in Denmark when we make reforms in the labour market, for example. It is also important to ensure that we do not lose sight of the fact that there is a need for a system of social security for workers in the Community. That is why we need to make some reforms, and that is basically why Greece is being called upon to do so. At any rate, I find it hard to see, when you have a country that is a completely voluntary member of the European Union, voluntarily participating in the euro, that you should say from the side of other Member States: we will make sure that your debt is paid, you do not have to worry about that, and then we will manage it. I think that is a very wrong signal to send to those countries that otherwise have their affairs in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180845	There's a question. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180849	Thank you. In other words, the situation is a little interesting because, contrary to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, the Greek Government has said that it wants to pay the debt, it just wants to do it in such a way that it is not dead before. Right now, the danger is that after 25% of the recession, which could well continue if austerity policy continues, the patient dies before the debt is paid off. So the situation is not a question of paying debts or not paying debts; that is how the money is to be found. Now the Greeks were not as fortunate as the Danes that they had a referendum so that they could vote on it. We did so in Denmark, and fortunately there was a result that said no to joining the euro. But is it really the policy of the Danish People's Party that if we had joined the euro, it would be okay for the EU to demand that it was pensioners and not the wealthiest Danes who had to pay for the crisis? Would it be an acceptable demand from the Danish People's Party for the EU to be allowed to decide? Or should it not actually still be possible for voters from election to election to decide where the bill for a crisis should be sent?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430180959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181000	In other words, I do not want to answer that question at all, because you are asking a premise that in Denmark we will eventually have the euro, and I do not really want to go into that séance at all. I'm so deeply opposed to that, so I don't want to think about it at all. But I would like to reply in this way: in principle, when you have a democracy, which is why I certainly do not want the euro, and that we in the Danish People's Party do not want to have the euro, it is precisely the democratically elected people in this Parliament who can do with the economy that the majority wants. It is just my view of Enhedslisten's economic policy that if you had a majority, we would have had a huge debt in Denmark; I have no doubt about that at all. There are then some others who have a different kind of policy that Enhedslisten may disagree with. That's fair enough. But there it is in here that we decide, and it is the citizens here in Denmark who have chosen the majority that sits here. I think that is democracy, and that is also why I am strongly opposed to the euro, because if you become part of the euro, there will be some who say that there must be some other requirements. That is how it is to have a single currency, and that is why I am not interested in a single currency.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181110	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181112	Well Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti agree very much that Denmark should not join the euro. I can then reassure the rapporteur that the Enhedslisten will not be indebted to Denmark if we were to get a majority, which we hope will soon be; on the contrary, we would probably make profits, because we always make funded demands. But what we are discussing today is our position in the Folketing on what the European Commission should be demanding of the Greeks. And I am just surprised that the Danish People's Party does not say: fine! The Greeks must pay off the debt, and that is what they want, but it must be up to the elected Greek Government to find out where that money is to be found and whether it should be found with pensioners or whether it should be found with the most wealthy Greeks. Surely it is up to the democratically elected representatives of the individual Member States to decide where the money will come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181204	- Sir, you can. Nikolaj Villumsen is quite right. All we are asking for is for Greece to pay the money on time and the agreed amount. I guess that's what this is all about. So my impression is that Greece has not managed to do so without the demands that have been made to them. So when you sit and do the calculations, you think they can't handle the repayment of the debt they have if they don't do these reforms. I guess that's the whole problem. I know that the last time they had to pay off payments, there was a lot of doubt as to whether they could pay. Apparently, at the last minute, we succeeded. But I'm very excited to see if they can find the money they're going to find in May. You'd better hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181308	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181325	Thank you, President. There is no doubt that the Greek economy has long been extremely unhealthy. Greece only joined EMU through well-known statistics fraud, which many chose to overlook for political reasons, and the misery could to some extent be concealed during the recovery until 2008. Until then, Greece's interest rate was quite modest because the financial markets expected that the EU countries would eventually pay off Greece's debt if necessary. All this changed abruptly with the financial crisis. The reason for Greece's problems is that it is a weak state which cannot effectively levy taxes and with a widespread clientileism in which the two political wings have used, for example, in the past. public positions as rewards to supporters, and with extensive corruption. There is therefore no doubt that there is a need for significant reforms in Greece, and Syria is also fully aware of this. However, they attach more importance to effective tax collection and the fight against corruption than previous governments, and here it is a clear advantage that Syria has not been involved in corruption and clitentileism. They are more reluctant to raise their retirement age, to make the public sector more efficient and to carry out certain privatisations. It should be borne in mind here that, unlike in Denmark, privatisations can be an advantage in countries with extensive corruption. They have chosen to re-establish a social safety net which is to some extent equivalent to our cash assistance but at a lower level and will raise the minimum wage, which has been greatly reduced. The dispute between what must no longer be called the Troika and Greece is partly at the pace of the reforms and partly at the content. As far as the pace is concerned, the troika has insisted that Greece should reduce its national debt very quickly as a percentage of GDP. It is based on an idea that a country can quickly save itself for a better economy. Joseph Stiglitz, Nobel Prize winner and former Vice-President of the World Bank, have criticised strongly. On this point, I think the Greeks are right. There should be a more gradual phasing-in of reforms, etc., so as not to drain the economy from all demand. With regard to content, it seems that the troika has had a very strong focus on cuts in the number of public employees, minimum wages, social benefits, etc. and had less focus on the entire revenue side, perhaps because an effective tax system cannot be built in a short time and therefore does not fit in with the Troika's thinking about a quick fix. Whose fault is it then? Basically, the problem is created by the Greeks. The EU and the IMF have helped by easing the repayment profile of loans and new loans. They have made demands which are too primitive in terms of supply economic thinking, and also demands which, in my view and the SF, have far too much affected the weak and the poor and, far too modestly, the rich Greeks. On the other hand, there has also been a great deal of opposition in Greece to certain necessary reforms. Finally, the EU's general demand for a strict financial policy has helped to harm Greece. Juncker's investment plan, in my opinion, is still the emperor's new clothes, and if it has a little effect, it will in any case be far too late. SF's wish that all countries should invest extra, e.g. equal to 0,25%. of GDP would have much more impact and would work faster. The last thing I want to say is that how you look at the problem in the European Union, and especially the countries of southern Europe and, most specifically, Greece, depends also on how you look at the crisis and how it has arisen. In the SF's view, there was and is a structural problem with the euro. There has been and is simply too great a difference in how the economy is linked up in southern Europe and in northern Europe. That is also why we are not in favour of the euro. However, there is a group of euro countries which have granted loans to the Greeks. The Greeks have voluntarily entered EMU. They have even cheated and deceived their way in there, but in order to understand the crisis and to talk about the same thing, one also has to have some degree of agreement on what the underlying big problem is. If you do not, it is also difficult to point out the same solutions. However, in the eyes of the SF, there has been too much, too great a distinction between different countries to have the same monetary policy, and it has also come to the attention of a number of the countries that now say that then we must also have a common financial policy in Europe to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181825	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181829	Thank you. The SF often says that the European Union is a political battleground where you have to fight, and I very much agree with the criticism made by the SF rapporteur from the euro, in other words the euro has the fundamental problem of not taking social considerations into account, not taking account of unemployment. That is what we are seeing very clearly in Europe right now: unemployment is towering, social poverty is extreme and the construction of the European Union is completely indifferent. Then there's a political fight. There is then a political struggle between the German Chancellor, the Conservative Chancellor, on the one hand, who insists on a austerity policy and has a great economic advantage to have the euro, because it benefits the German large industry and then a completely impoverished such peripheral Europe with Greece, who says no to this austerity policy and instead wants to be allowed to make public investment and make social recovery. Was it not obvious that the SF supported the criticism of the newly elected Greek Government against Merkel? And isn't today a good opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430181942	I think I have expressed this in part, but the SF's position is also not one hundred percent in line with that of Enhedslisten or Mr. Nikolaj Villumsens, because we do not believe that Greece can be completely deprived of responsibility for the fact that it has suffered as badly as it has. The financial crisis came and overturned Europe, and a house therefore stands somewhat stronger if the foundation is in order and it is healthy. And Greece wasn't. There was quite a common accounting fraud, you might almost call it, and it was known to many, but you chose to look past it. There were massive problems in Greece, which will take a long time to rectify, and it is quite right that there should be some radical reforms in Greece, where nepotism, clientilism and corruption are still quite widespread. I hope, as I also mentioned in my speech, that Syria, which has not been part of that system, will not be sucked into it, but, on the other hand, will do away with it. I also think that in my speech I referred to the very criticism of some of the most negative consequences of austerity policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182059	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182101	After all, no one says that Greece does not have a responsibility on the contrary. Indeed, former civil and social democratic governments in Greece have a huge responsibility for never having been cleaned up. After the Second World War, England has a huge responsibility for never having a proper democratisation of the Greek state. Colonel's coup, and whatever else has been, it's also a big fault for all this. The interesting thing is that the Greeks have now chosen a new government that wants to make radical reforms to put an end to corruption and tax evasion, but this government, unlike the old corrupt governments, cannot obtain any loan unless it makes pension losses unless it reduces labour market conditions. It is quite unreasonable to force pension losses through instead of accepting that you can find this money by taking it from the richest Greeks and doing away with tax evasion. Isn't it time for the SF to back off on this policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182201	The last thing I'm gonna choose to overhear. I have just stood here criticizing parts of the austerity policy that has been in Europe, but I do not think it can be said as black and white as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen mentioned. To go in almost actively and to fight against a policy of poverty, a policy aimed at remedying the worst form of poverty, can only support as the left-wing party. However, the demand to raise the pensionable age from 60 years and a few years seems to me to be in order, and there are parts of the public sector that do not work in any way, and it is right to demand reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182246	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182254	Thank you. Greece is still in a serious economic crisis, and that does not alter the Greek elections held. The loans received by Greece through the European Union are a matter between the euro countries and Greece, and Denmark, as you know, is not taking part in those negotiations. This obviously makes it impossible for Denmark to influence these specific negotiations. Other euro area countries, such as Ireland and Portugal, have undergone considerable adjustments and are now out of their programmes. Similarly, Spain and the Baltic States have made significant adjustments, some even without the help of the European Union. These countries have now regained faith in renewed growth and employment, and some of these countries are, in fact, some of those with the greatest growth in Europe right now. Denmark has also carried out major necessary reforms under the current government to get the economy under control and to ensure a long-term balance in the Danish economy, so that there is also affordability in the future. Greece also has to reform their economy so that their state budget can be balanced again and confidence in investing in Greece can be regained. The current situation in Greece does not alter the fact that the only way to overcome crises in EU countries is for each EU country to have a strong focus on public finances and structural reforms that can support growth and employment and promote productive investment. In addition, it should also be noted that, in the last year, in the context of the fight against crisis in the European Union, a significant strengthening of the regulation and supervision of the financial sector has taken place at the same time. Denmark and Europe are only interested in Greece getting back on its feet, even if it may seem insurmountable right now for the Greek people and the Greek Government. For this reason, Denmark should also support the loan programmes between Greece and the euro area countries, which have, of course, just been made to help Greece recover.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182458	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182459	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. In other words, it is a little interesting to highlight, for example, the Baltic countries as a success story. It was also done by the Minister for Economic Affairs earlier. For example, if you look at Latvia, you see that it is the case that 20%. of the population since 2010 has migrated. They are located among other things. in underpaid jobs here in Copenhagen and close to where we are. Is that reasonable? Does it make sense to pursue an economic policy on the part of the European Union, where 20% of the budget is spent? of the population fleeing? Portugal has been highlighted. That's 10%. of the population emigrated since the crisis set in. In other words, it is really the sensible economic policy that 10-20 per cent. Is it the case that the people are being sent on the run because of austerity policy? And is that the policy that makes sense to continue? Is that really the position of the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182554	I see it as something positive that we have free mobility in Europe, where we can all move around as workers. Poles also work in Denmark. Germans work in Denmark. Danes work in Portugal and Spain etc. That is quite natural, and I think that is one of the great benefits of our EU cooperation and of what we have committed each other to. So I don't see that as forcing each other to move out of our countries. Fortunately, it is freedom of movement which allows Greeks to travel, work in other countries; it allows Estonians to do so, etc. I don't see that as a problem at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182628	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182630	Well, it's nice to be able to travel around Europe. It is such a pity that the jobs that people often get are, unfortunately, underpaid and not under-paid. But the reality is that it is not of profit that people have left, but it is because the economy has collapsed in their countries as a result of this austerity policy that is being praised. And what just puzzles me is that it may be a success story that in Latvia you have a situation where 20%. of the population have to leave the country. Well, isn't it relevant to discuss whether you couldn't go another way? If it's 20 percent. of the Spanish people who leave Spain, it is true, very many millions of people who are going to drive around Europe and who are at risk of being able to squeeze their wages here in Denmark, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182723	Fortunately, this is the case, and I think Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen knows that those who come to Denmark and work contribute a lot to their own country, because many of them are incredibly frugal, travel home with some of these money, send some of these money to their poor families at home, and in this way they really contribute to the development of their own country. This has been the case for Estonia, and it could also apply to Greece. This has also been the case for Poland. So, in reality, it is also a way to help your own country get back on its feet, by just going out, earning some money, taking them home and perhaps investing in a store, a factory, whatever it is you need to help your country get back on its feet. So I still see it as a positive thing that we really also have the opportunity to offer others to come to Denmark and earn some money that they can then take home and help to contribute to their country's restoration, if you like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182810	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430182816	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we want the Greek people to see the Greek economy back on its feet. Right now, there is no doubt whatsoever that the Greek economy is in ruins. The euro area countries have reached agreement on the extension of the loan programme, the question is what happens when the deadline expires. Do we really believe that improvements will be made? We don't do that in the Liberal Alliance. As long as the Greek Government does not pursue a responsible policy as long as the figures are cheated, as long as we cannot levy taxes with credibility and as long as there is no sign of a willingness to reform, then the crisis will only turn into worse. A new government has come into existence in massive electoral promises, which it cannot, of course, live up to, because the economy speaks its own language. I fully understand that the patience of the governments and peoples of the euro area countries is running out. Loans must be repaid and promises must be respected. Morten Østergaard claims that it would have been much worse if no loans had been granted, sank and now extended the deadlines for repayment. We can't do counterproductive history writing, so we don't know if it's right or if the torment has just been pulled out. The EU is making unreasonable demands on Greece, claims the Enhedslisten. Excuse me, the Greek economy has been kept under control for far too long, so that necessary reforms have not been implemented, either by the previous government or by the current one. Care must be taken to predict the future, but a bid could be for Greece to withdraw from the euro, to assume its own responsibility for the economy and the development of the country, and thus to slowly rebuild the confidence of the outside world. This will undoubtedly be an immensely difficult and painful process, but what we are witnessing at the moment is neither dignified nor anything that points to lasting and lasting solutions. Enhedslisten's approach to the whole issue solves no problems at all. The problems must first of all be solved by a responsible Greek government which is willing to carry out the necessary reforms. Patience has gone a long way and we understand that the patience of the euro countries has been used up, and now the initiative is first and last the Greeks themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183046	Before we proceed to brief remarks, I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that when we speak of the Minister, it is not by name, but by title, i.e. the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior or the Minister. It is a small matter, but right must be right. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183109	Thank you. I would just like to hear from the Liberal Alliance rapporteur what the necessary reforms are that the Greek Government should implement. For example, 50% have been cut. to the Greek health budget. Do we have to cut the health budget more so that we have come far enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183127	The specific initiatives are, of course, entirely up to the Greek Government to assess. However, the fact that no more effort has been made long ago to establish a tax system which actually works, I think, very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183145	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183146	There is no doubt that a tax system that worked long ago should have been created. That's what the left has been yelling and screaming about. On the other hand, the Greek right has resisted. Fortunately, it is the left who has won, so you start demanding money from the richest Greeks. And it can be said that Greece is a good example of having, for example. 0% in tax for shipping companies does not lead to a sound economic policy; on the contrary, it leads to economic ruin. On the part of the Liberal Alliance, it is said that it should be up to the Greeks themselves, but I am just thinking that the reality is that right now, the European Union is demanding very specific policies, such as pension reductions and deterioration of conditions in the labour market. Why should it not be up to the Greeks to decide for themselves how to find their money to pay off the debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183236	It is not the case that if we borrow money from the bank, it is up to us to tell the banks how we want to pay that money back. I fully understand that the euro countries, having shown great patience for a long time now, have sunk, delayed deadlines and so on, are starting to make very concrete demands. We are not a member of that family in the European Union, and I think the Greeks themselves must now get their act together. And I would say that before you even start talking about where to cut one or the other or the third place, there is a prerequisite for the cuts to work, and that is that you have set up a system that allows you to get money into the treasury at all. That's the basics.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183321	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed, Conservatives, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183337	I'm very fond of Enhedslisten. There are many reasons for this. It is not because we are very much in agreement, but we must admit that Enhedslisten is made up of people who are deeply committed and interested in politics. The Enhedslisten sometimes invites us to such exciting debates, perhaps a little studentism, and these are debates that do not lead to anything, but which in themselves can be very fun to have. The Enhedslisten has then chosen on this great night of prayer to invite the rest of us to a debate on Greece's economy and its relations with the euro area countries. It's quite exciting, and we, a number of political geeks... I'm sorry... the term is here too... and we spend the evening discussing it with mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. That's really, really exciting. It is also the case that the Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal for adoption, because there has to be something like that that we have to adopt; something has to come out of it. The Enhedslisten has then chosen that what is to come out of it, among other things. is that we should call on the government to reject the EU's unreasonable demands on Greece. It could actually be festive if we decided. I wonder what the government is going to do with that. The Minister could be asked about that. What will the government do if we adopt it? Would something happen about that? Would that lead to anything? Would that mean that we completely blocked the demands made on the side of the euro area countries to Greece and then all of them had to negotiate the whole thing, because now we have been sitting here on the big night of prayer and decided that this is the way it should be? I guess it wouldn't. What Enhedslisten is proposing is something that belongs in a studentiko's world. It doesn't lead to anything, but it's really fun to play, that we could decide that kind of thing. The short of the long, as many others have said, is that the Greeks have spent far more money than they had for a number of years. And at some point the hour of reckoning comes, and it did so a few years ago. The euro countries were so friendly to a certain extent also the IMF, but above all the euro countries were to step in with very favourable loans to the Greeks, but of course also had conditions to ensure that the Greeks implemented the reforms needed to balance their economy so that they could pay back the money after all. I guess that's pretty reasonable, isn't it? Then comes the new Greek government at the head of government Alexis Tsipras and says that now the new government wants to renegotiate it. That's what you accept to do. But that requires the Greek Government to be able to put forward a policy and reforms which they can convince the lenders to be as good as those otherwise agreed, otherwise they will not agree to it. It must be between them. I would also like to add something about the fact that a austerity policy, as can also be seen in the proposal for adoption by the Enhedslisten, is something terrible: I would just like to point out that what Enhedslisten calls a austerity policy, is what has got the economy back on track in a number of European countries that is making them grow and do well. The Greeks will also come to that when they have been through a, admitted, hard time in which they pay back their debts. But then this will also lead to the return of the Greeks to their economies and the citizens, the families of Greece, to see that they get a job and make money that makes them more wealthy than they used to be. The Conservative People's Party can naturally support the proposal for adoption, for which we ourselves are co-sponsors, and for which Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen made a short statement. That must be my conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183815	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183817	Thank you. I understand that the Conservatives think that it is a little unimportant to discuss the situation in Greece and that we are pleased with what is happening. I actually understand you are if you're conservative. After all, the reality is that the Greek electorate clearly rejected the former Conservative Greek Government, but it can now be concluded that the policy of the former Greek Government will nevertheless be implemented because the European Union demands it. If that development continues, then it is quite right that there is no reason to discuss the economic path to be followed in Europe, and that it really does not matter what the electorate chooses from election to election, because it will nevertheless be dictated by Brussels, and it is likely that the conservative austerity policy, which is what is real today, will be pursued. So I understand that the Conservatives are well satisfied and believe that this really is an indifferent debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430183920	Now it is actually the case if we are going to go back a little bit in history, as I understand Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen would like the Conservative Government, under the leadership of Antonis Samaras, to take over an agreement reached by the former Socialist Government with the euro area countries. I was actually discussing this myself with Antonis Samaras before he became Prime Minister in Greece, and he was a little concerned because the Socialist Government had promised that, for example, it would be possible to do so. should increase taxes. He was worried about this, because he said that then you risk companies fleeing the country and then you earn less money and so on. However, he faithfully implemented and followed the agreement reached by the Social Democratic Government with the EU with the euro countries during his reign. That is what the new Greek Government is dropping out of and where you want something else; that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184023	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184024	Yes, that is the way it is: the voters go and set some crosses and then can choose a government that wants to get the economy in one direction or another. The interesting thing is that in Greece we want to pay off the debt, that we want to get the economy going, but we want to get the money back in a different way than we have tried to do in the past because it has not proved to be sensible and realistic. In my view, it is just a relevant political debate to discuss whether it really should be the case that the European Union should insist that it does not matter what a cross-election vote is, because it is the European Union that knows what policy needs to be pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184110	It is just that changing governments must accept the agreements that previous governments have entered into with other countries and with international organisations. This is also the case here in the country where we change government once in a while, and I hope we will do it again soon. If there is a new government with a new majority, then the new government will accept the agreements made by the previous government with other countries and international organisations and will loyally pursue it. Now there is a new government in Greece, and then attempts are being made to change the reforms, etc. that had been made by the previous government and the previous government, and at the same time a number of new expenditure-intensive proposals have been proposed to be included in the overall package. So some other measures would certainly be put in place to give more money into the box, but at the same time new expenditure-intensive measures have been proposed. You have to see if you can negotiate an agreement on that. It's awkward, and we're just gonna have to take note of that. After all, it is the euro countries and Greece that must negotiate it, but it is reasonable that the lenders, that is to say the euro countries, want to make sure that the new Greek Government makes such concrete proposals that they are sure that the money will come into the box and that the money will vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184238	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184245	First of all, thank you for a good debate, which I at least see as a very broad support for the line we have, namely that Greece's commitments should be met by Greece, and it is even beyond the circle of parties which seem to constitute the majority and which have put forward a proposal for adoption that is based on it. I can't add that much to Mr. Kim. Lars Barfoed's notification of the proposal for adoption by the Enhedslisten, but yet, I think, I welcome the fact that since we are not involved in it, we may in fact be more part of the people than part of the EU elite. After all, I understood from the preliminary discussion that was between Mr. Lars Barfoed and Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen that it was the EU elite that was wrong with. But it is quite true that we cannot allow that to be included, since we are not involved in making these demands and have not borrowed money either. On the other hand, I am well aware of that, and I have been able to hear that from today's debate if I was not aware of it in advance that it is not, of course, because Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen actually wants us in a situation where we could have an impact on the requirements of the euro countries for Greece, because that would of course require joining the euro. This then leads us to get a little deeper into the substance here and try to see if we can find a way through the debate. And one of the things that has puzzled me a little is that when we were discussing a renewed loan to Ukraine, where Denmark is in relation to human rights. And, of course, it is quite reasonable to make demands on Ukraine in this context too, and a number of things are being demanded of Ukraine in connection with the loans that are being given, but it is only strange that it is not similarly undemocratic in the Enhedslisten's view that a lender should make demands on what needs to be met by borrowers in order to grant loans. But it was apparently not difficult for Enhedslisten to demand it, so there seems to be a nuance in what it is for some demands one makes; it cannot just be the making of demands. What is then at the heart of the demands that meet Greece is not that, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsens says or writes. What is at the heart of the demands that meet Greece is that they bring Greece in a credible way in a situation where you can repay your debt. After all, this is the only essential requirement in the agreement that has been made with the euro area countries: there must be credibility in the reform list that is being put up. As I said at the outset, we are more than welcome to exchange actions. If the new government thinks it has other, more effective and perhaps more socially just measures than the old government, that is very welcome. There must only be credibility in it, and it is clear that it cannot be said unilaterally from the Greek side. That is also the case with all of us who want to relocate loans in our house or to redeploy our consumer loans or something else: of course, it also requires those who have lent us the money to accept it and that there is still certainty that they will come back to the house. That is why it boils down to what many rapporteurs have said today, namely that there is a clear and persistent desire for Greece to remain on a path in which it is able to repay the debts that it built up when, after an unsustainable economic policy, it had become a situation where it was impossible to make progress without the help of others. Then the SF rapporteur said a little critically that the Greeks are right in saying that it is as if the euro countries are looking for a quick fix, and I therefore do not think that is a fair representation of what is being sought. No, what is being sought is a course for Greece that creates an expectation that one can repay the debt by veins and that one can put oneself in a situation where one will not need the help of others again to get by. I can say there, after following such a wide-ranging discussion on how to overcome the crisis at European level, that some of the strongest advocates of the path that has been the battle for so many are some of the countries that have made it through their programmes. It is, for example, Spain that has now been through very difficult challenges, but is in a situation where there is growth and increasing employment. I am not suggesting that things are good everywhere • that things are now good all the places where you have had problems • nor in Denmark, even though things have now progressed for many months in a row. I am just saying that a great many of the countries which have been in a similar, or perhaps even some, situation on some parameters worse than Greece, agree that the Greeks should, in fact, not for everyone else, but for their own sake, continue along the path of reform. That is why I do not think it is quite right for the Liberal Alliance rapporteur to say that the patience of the euro countries has been used up. No, I really don't think that's the right way to go about it. What is impatience with is that we move forward in terms of converting Greek society into something that is sustainable. On the contrary, I really think there has been a great deal of long-suffering with the new Greek Government, but it requires action, and it requires action that has credibility, to get people who have borrowed money in advance and have money for them to send more money. So, overall, I must say that I am very pleased to hear that this is a widely shared view in the Folketing, also between parties that may not normally look exactly the same on all European policy issues, and I will therefore go further in the discussions within the EU circle and know that even a very broad majority agrees that this is the way for Greece, as it has been for a number of other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184841	There is a brief comment or a question. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184845	I really think that the comparison with Ukraine is quite interesting. What we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party said in this context was that reform should be required in order to guarantee human rights in Ukraine before a loan could be granted. The reality is that Ukraine is seriously violating its commitment to the Council of Europe in a large number of areas of human rights. On the other hand, the Council of Europe has said that the policy pursued in recent years in Greece has violated fundamental social and democratic rights. So there's a huge difference. The situation is that in Ukraine we demand that human rights should be respected, and in Greece the government is apparently behind some demands from the European Union that cause human rights to be violated. Does the Minister not think that it is problematic that in this way it is said that these obligations, such as Greece, have? are reforms which have had profoundly problematic consequences and which have been criticised, among others, by the Commission. Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430184950	What is inconsistent is that, in the Enhedslisten with one hand, it is okay to make demands when granting loans, but with the other hand here today in the Danish Parliament, it is said that it is undemocratic when you demand governments on how they will live up to the loan commitments they or previous governments have undertaken. There's just one wonder on my part about how you can feel differently from situation to situation. I have the same opinion. I think we can allow ourselves, when we are a lender, to impose conditions on it, and the central condition in relation to Greece is that they put themselves in a situation where they can repay the loans. At any rate, in any situation, this seems to be a reasonable justification for money lending.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185039	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185041	What Enhedslisten says is that, of course, it is a prerequisite for lending money to some people that they respect human rights. Of course. We do not have human rights under discussion. But the reality is that the demands made by the European Union to Greece have led to violations of human rights, and that is something the government must address. Why support a policy which has violated human rights here? The situation is, of course, that we have now got it clearly on the table: the government believes that demands must be made, support demands made on the Greeks, but, funny enough, demands are made which mean a deterioration for pensioners rather than taking the money from the richest Greeks. Why are the political priorities chosen by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185129	It is an absurdity from one end to the next, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen gets himself into a mess. First of all, we do not make demands on Greece as a government because we have not lent them any money. Secondly, no one is demanding Greece to violate human rights. What you are demanding is that you put yourself in a situation where you want to repay your debt. Then a number of choices have been made in Greece so far and are about to make a number of choices. What seems to be a little difficult for the new government is, like getting the ends to meet and show what choice one will make, which in fact leads to the repayment of the debt, although I agree that this is what the Greek Government wants to say. But you have to show that. You have to demonstrate that. There you have to make your choices and stand by them. But what's the problem right now is that you can't. You cannot go where you show and document what choices you want to make to put yourself in a situation where you want to repay your debt. What is the great challenge facing Greece now is that credibility is being lost. Ratings are being changed to the negative, there is a bad outlook, and the public sector is being vacuumed for money just to be able to cope with the day and the way. This merely underlines the need for the Greeks to do something fundamental to bring their economy to a recovery for the benefit of all their citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185249	Thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. I understand, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen wishes to speak in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185256	Thank you. I would, of course, like to thank you for a good debate. I believe that this has been a fruitful debate which has perhaps also helped to shift some of the myths that were otherwise present at the beginning of the debate. For example, I think it is worth signing off on the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior finally stressed that the Greek Government really wants to pay off its debts. It is a discussion about how to raise the money. It's good to get there. I am a little sorry that the Conservatives do not think it is appropriate to discuss this, but I can actually understand it, because as we talked about during the debate, it is not necessary, as a conservative in the future, to worry about whether one's policy is being implemented. Despite the electorate's opt-out, it can be seen that it is being pushed through by the European Commission. I think that is a rather undemocratic situation, but of course a convenient situation if one were to be conservative and a little tired of political debate. I cannot help commenting on the fact that we have a situation in which the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, the Left and the Socialists, even on the same day as they wish to join the euro area's banking union, think it is absurd that Denmark has a position on the policy being pursued in the euro area countries. I was therefore also pleased that the Minister ended up confirming that the situation is that, after all, it is a balance between the political demands of the European Union on the Greeks and the political demands of other countries in crisis. In his first speech, the Minister said that he wanted the reforms to be concrete. That's quite interesting. I would urge the Minister to go back and talk to his officials about what specific reform requirements the Greeks have actually put on the table. To my knowledge, it is 70 very specific reform requirements, which are just not austerity policy. It is, of course, a political priority which the Greek people have to support. The situation is that where the European Union wanted to lend money to the former Greek Government, even though it knew that there were major problems with corruption and the lack of tax payments from not least the richest part of the population, it is now refusing to lend money to the new Greek Government because the government will not save on pensions and reduce labour market conditions. I find that thought-provoking. I think it is thought-provoking that the Minister is saying that the humanitarian recovery that the Greek Government has begun to make is apparently a move in the wrong direction. So it is a move in the wrong direction to take care of the most vulnerable and weak Greeks. I am very surprised at the optimism that exists in relation to other EU countries in crisis. We had earlier the debate on Latvia, which is now being presented as a great success. Well, it's a country where 20%. of the population has emigrated since the crisis. It was pointed out that Spain and Portugal will be very sad if, after making substantial savings, they see that Greece can go another way. Yeah, I can understand that. Those governments stand to be beaten by kodyle in the coming elections if it turns out that there is another way out of the crisis than they have gone through. But the reality is that both governments and, unfortunately, the European Union do not really want to have a discussion on what economic path can be pursued. You just want it to be the so-called necessary policy to be implemented, and everyone has to meet requirements that they themselves do not share in discussing. I think it is exciting that we have the debate today, not least because it is also about the Danish economy. We have a situation where there is an economic downturn on the way in England and the United States; the BRIC countries have started to go back economically; and we have a distressed economic situation in many of the European countries. It is, of course, relevant to discuss how we should get the wheels going at home if development is not reversed. If development is not reversed in these countries, where are we going to export our goods? That is why this debate is not just a debate about Greece or the countries in crisis. After all, it is also a debate on how to really get Denmark going in the future. I think it is amazing that we can have a situation in which an agreement can be reached between the Greek Government and the euro group in October, which involves radical reforms, and then we are working against the possibility of granting loans so that these radical reforms can be implemented. After all, it is thought-provoking that there must be pension reductions and reductions in professional rights on the table before money can be borrowed. It simply says that this is about politics, it is not about the economy, and that is where we have such political disagreements. However, I believe that the debate will continue, not least after some of the elections that are waiting around in other hard-hit countries in Europe, which may well choose to move towards Greece, and then we can have a more exciting debate. So thank you for the discussion today, and good May 1st to those who celebrate tomorrow, and good day off to the rest of you. Then I look forward to continuing the discussions when we come across the weekend.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185838	There is just one brief comment. Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185841	Well, it has to be very short. I would also like to wish Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. I just thought it was just a little strong tobacco here in the end to say that it went downhill in Europe. Fortunately, we have an increase in growth and a fall in unemployment, including in Denmark. It's a completely wrong picture that gets drawn there. It was just my only comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185859	It is true that there is a positive development in Denmark right now, and we should be very pleased about that, but I also think it is important to look a little forward. It has to be said that there is an economic downturn in Germany; there is an economic downturn in England; there is a situation in which many countries are still facing major problems, and I think we need to deal with this. There has been a strategy, not least on the part of the Danish Government, that it was hoped to be able to export to BRIK countries and thus get out of the economic crisis and create jobs. But when the BRIC countries go down economically, when the economy in Europe is not really going down, then we can soon get back into trouble at home. I think that is important, and that is why this debate is also real and concrete, in terms of how we ensure that the wheels get going in a lasting way, so that Danish jobs can be created.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430185954	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 5 May 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150430190014	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 5 May 2015, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
