ParlaMint-DK_20150522100000	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100020	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100026	Thank you. As you know, chapters 12 and 13 of the Penal Code include a number of quite different crimes against Denmark and Danish interests. I would like to take a closer look at some of the provisions in order to see if we can ensure more up-to-date legislation. Of course, I am thinking here first of all of the kind of treason that consists of Danes joining an enemy force to fight against Danish forces at the same time. This is an absurd situation in every way, and it is taking place in Syria and Iraq, at the same time sending out Danish forces to defeat the Islamic State. The Islamic State is an organization that is inhumane in all its thought and operation. Huge crimes have been committed, and they are a threat to all of us. The fact that, on the one hand, we contribute militarily to defeating them and, on the other hand, that there are Danes travelling out as so-called holy warriors is in my view to be regarded as treason. There should be no doubt that the government of the most severe plagues disapproves of Danish citizens, resident foreigners who go to areas of armed conflict where Danish forces participate, to participate in the fight against the coalition in which the Danish forces form part. As you know, the penal code does not directly apply the concept of treason, but rather provides for assistance to the enemy during the war, which among other things. include serving in the armed forces of an enemy military force. That provision has many years on the back, and I think it is important to have it mapped out whether it can also be used in relation to the situations in which Danish soldiers are involved. That is why last year the government asked the Criminal Code Council to assess this issue and I asked the Criminal Code Council in January to bring the work forward. We expect that there will soon be a partial opinion on the issue, and then we expect the government to follow up quickly with legislative proposals that unequivocally criminalise Danes who join an enemy force to fight against Danish soldiers. Following this sub-opinion, the Criminal Code Council will continue its work on the other aspects of the mandate, such as: concerns the participation of Danes and residents of foreigners in armed conflicts abroad, to which the Danish State is not a party. Whether this means changes to Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code will certainly not be rejected and, as I said before, I would like to make legislative proposals quickly in relation to what concerns treason. In my speech today, I choose to dwell on this question because I think that is what is of the greatest interest to the proposers. We reject the motion for a resolution as it stands, we are working on these very chapters of the criminal code ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100316	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100320	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to ask whether the Minister for Justice can go into detail on when the work has been done to look at the Left's proposal for an entry ban on Syria, which follows on from the motion for a resolution and will also be part of the relevant chapters of the Criminal Code, which the Ministry and the Minister have been working on for six months now. Can the Minister tell us today in the Chamber when we will have something more factual to relate to?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100353	There is still work to be done on this issue. It is a really, really difficult question to shed light on, because there are many dilemmas associated with it. I don't dare put on a precise date. I expect, on the other hand, that the Criminal Code Council will have completed its part-opinion before the summer, so that we can get it in place soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100409	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100411	Yeah, but the Criminal Court isn't looking at this part as I understand it. Of course, I may be wrong. As I understand it, it is the Ministry of Justice that is looking at the proposal of a common blue block. And the Minister said: I can see some things in it, and we will look at that as soon as possible. I'd like to sign for that. But now something like six months has gone by since we brought the proposal to the Minister in December. I could ask a little teasing whether the Minister thinks we will get an answer before elections come up. But as long as it is only the Prime Minister who knows when elections will be held, it can of course be a difficult question to answer. But perhaps the Minister could then answer whether she expects it to be answered before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100450-2	As I said before, I do not dare to set a precise date, and I must also be quite honest and say that there are limits to the capacity we have in the Ministry of Justice, not least in view of the terrorist attack on Copenhagen. It's working on the case, I don't dare set a precise date on the case, but it's ours and mys of interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100508	Mrs Marie Krarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100511	I find it difficult to understand the Minister's position because, as I heard the speech, the Minister agrees that it is necessary to update the language so that it becomes understandable to everyone that treason is a very serious crime. But on the other hand, you just don't have to do it right now. Does this mean that the Minister agrees that it is important to have the word traitor inserted and to make it perfectly clear, and will the Minister then vote in favour of a resolution which will be retabled in one month's time or in two months' time or in 14 days' time if the Minister for Justice still has the position that the Minister of Justice has at that time? I think I need clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100558	I would like to contribute to that when the Criminal Code Council makes their partial statements, and I expect the Criminal Code Council to do so very soon. Then I will put forward a legislative proposal on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100608	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100609	I do not understand how it can destroy the Minister for Justice's ability to take a political stance on what to do. So, I guess the Criminal Code Council isn't formulating the Minister for Justice's political attitude to whether treason is good or bad, i.e. whether it's good or bad, that it's clear in the penal code what you can and can't do. Well, I guess a political attitude is something that's inside the Justice Minister's own heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100637	I, as Minister of Justice, have just expressed that. In my view, it is treason if a Dane or a resident of a foreign country travels to Syria or Iraq and fights for the Islamic State against Denmark, against the coalition of which we are part, against democracy, against freedoms. Then you are a traitor to the country, and I would like to see that reflected in our criminal law. That is my position and it has been all the way through. The Criminal Code Council contributes to the technical and professional establishment of the foundation. My political position is quite clear: it is treason and, of course, it must be punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100706	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100709	I think it is quite fair for the Minister to say that she cannot give a date, and I do not think anyone expects that either. But could it be imagined that the government will say that relevant legislative proposals will be put forward in the forthcoming session?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100725	Yes, it's clearly my intention if I get to continue as the country's Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100732	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Justice. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522100743	The Minister of Justice said in January that the so-called Syrian warriors must be punished as traitors, and let me start by signing for that announcement from the government. Some people will say that this is a political turnaround, but it is certainly one of the positive ones. So we'd like to sign for that. Because the point is that among other things... The Left already expressed in October last year a wish that Danish citizens travelling to Syria to fight side by side with terrorist organisations such as the United States. The Islamic State must be able to be judged as traitors. At that time, however, the then Minister of Justice stressed that the Syrian warriors must be prosecuted after the terrorist paragraphs and not after the country-dangerous paragraphs. So I am glad that what the Minister of Justice has said here today is that we have a Minister of Justice and a government that now also believes that Syrians commit treason when they travel to Syria, for example, and parts of Iraq to fight against, among others. Danish soldiers. I also hope that most of us can agree that voluntary war service for the Islamic State is reprehensible and that we should not accept it in any way. The Islamic State is a reactionary, anti-female, fanatical and violent organization. It mistreats and kills people who do not agree with the Islamic State, no matter what religion they then belong to. Many of those who join from abroad, including from Denmark, are at risk of becoming involved in these actions, and thus they are also involved in committing war crimes and crimes against humanity, which is why we in the Left have long wanted to punish Syrian warriors as traitors. However, this does not rule out the possibility of punishing them after the terrorist paragraphs. However, it has recently been discussed whether the Danish citizens and resident foreigners who join the Islamic State's war service can even be said to be traitors to the penal code. The concept is a bit more complex than that, and you can ask questions about the Danish People's Party and that is what Dansk Folkeparti among others. With this motion for a resolution I wonder whether it is clear enough that the actions which, among other things, are being carried out. The warriors of Syria may also be punished in accordance with the provisions of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. In addition, there are some uncertainties and a general problem in relation to how to lift a burden of proof. These are, overall, some things that make it necessary to look at Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. That is also why we are dealing today with this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. After all, the proposal is about modernising the penal code, so that we ensure that, for example, treason becomes part of the law. Of course, it is not open to discussion that we as a society should say 'no' to the Syrian warriors, and there should be no doubt about our legislation in this area. That is why the law must, of course, also state that the national and traitor clauses are part of Chapters 12 and 13. In the Left, we believe that a solution can be worked out so that there is no uncertainty in the penal code on the country fraud and treason clauses, and we also believe that it is possible to find a model where there is, of course, legal certainty for those accused, but where it is also practically possible to lift a burden of proof. Now, in the field of defence, we have paid 400 million. kr. with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament to raise the Defence Intelligence Service to among others. collecting information on and monitoring Syrian warriors in Syria and Iraq, and it is therefore our expectation that the new technical tools to which the Defence Intelligence Service is given access and that the many resources that can be exchanged for the 400 million. kr. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction, and I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction. There is, of course, a relevant political debate on the issue of whether the information collected by the Defence Intelligence Service can be used in criminal proceedings against some of these Syrians in relation to the national or military paragraphs. And I have to say that we are of the opinion that we need to go a long way in using the information collected in order to lift a burden of proof for some of these things. We simply have to. However, the Minister for Justice has already said that I would also like to sign for the Criminal Code Council to look at the country fraud clauses, as the Minister also said in his speech, and I am convinced that there will be a need to change them in a large number of areas. In this context, it is also my expectation that, among other things, the Criminal Code Council. looking at this problem of the burden of proof, so we make sure that the Syrian warriors • those who may be it • in the future hopefully can be punished under the treason clauses. I would also like to sign and thank the Minister of Justice for asking the Criminal Code Council to speed up, because we think this is very important. We look forward very much to the work we can take a position on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101245	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101253	Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code cover a number of very different crimes against Denmark and Danish interests, and I should like to start by saying that we Social Democrats cannot support the proposal that we are discussing here today, which concerns a general revision of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Penal Code. It is not because we are in any way sympathetic to those people who are totally unacceptablely joining extremist groupings, and it is not because we do not want them to be subjected to severe punishment when they return to Denmark. When we reject a general review of the provisions of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code, it is not because we reject adjustments to individual provisions of the law. We are, in fact, constantly aware of ensuring that our legislation is in sync with the contemporary and the challenges that may arise. In relation to the debate on treason, we Social Democrats also fully agree with the content itself. It must be punished, and it must be severely punished when you join harmful terrorist organisations and when you directly help to combat a Danish military effort. This is also the reason why the Minister for Justice, as she explained, has already asked the Criminal Code Council to review the existing legislation in this area, an assessment which, as the Minister of Justice said, is expected to be available as soon as possible and which will, of course, be taken into account. I would also like to mention at the same time that it is not because there is no legislation in this area. After all, in the terrorist law, we have regulations that ensure that there is a severe penalty for this kind of offence, and there is also additional legislation that must support the general punishment of leaving and joining extremist organisations. Recently, we introduced a new law on passport involvement, a law that has already been applied. Similarly, we Socialists will never refuse to introduce new initiatives to stop this kind of evil. So, to end where I started, I would like to stress that we Social Democrats would like to punish and also hard if Danes join extremist organisations and even fight Danish soldiers. There should be no doubt about our position on these atrocities. However, we do not see any reason for a general revision of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. We await the assessment of the Criminal Code Council and, on that basis, we welcome the adjustments made to the two chapters. Against this background, I should like to say, as I started by saying, that we Socialists do not support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101552	There are two brief comments, first from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101557	Thank you. This discussion has been here for a long time, and I understand from the Socialists that they believe that we should come after these people. I understand that, as I see it, it has been repeated over and over again. But as soon as you have said it, you say: we will not deny that you are doing something about it either. So, when do you go from refusing to do something about it to actually doing something about it? Because if the Socialists think that the legislation is not enough in this area and you have to be better at coming after these people, why on earth have they not? I ask, perhaps because I'm a little naive, but I just don't understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101635	Or it was because the questioner was not present for the Minister's statement, in which she made it quite clear that a work has been started, and the Criminal Law Council has been asked to assess it here. These are therefore provisions that require a proper legal review before we go in and change our legislation. That work is in full swing. When the professional assessment is in place, we Social Democrats welcome any changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101657	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101659	The questioner had the pleasure of following the Minister's speech from his office, and the questioner also took part in other similar debates in the Parliamentary Chamber, where the Minister has made virtually the same speech. That is why I would like to repeat my question. We have said many times on the part of the Minister, on the part of the government, on the part of the Social Democrats: we do not refuse to do anything about this; we think it is wrong and we want to come after these people. So when do you go from saying a lot that sounds fine and nice to actually doing something about it? After all, one cannot keep making one speech after another, saying that something is about to happen, and something is about to happen. Well, any minute now, I guess I have some time limit, too, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101736	I've answered that question, and the Minister for Justice has answered that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101743	Mrs Marie Krarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101745	The Socialist rapporteur says that you want to punish, that you want to punish harshly. Then it is added: there should be no doubt that this is what the Socialists want. I would say that I have very serious doubts. Why can we not express a political opinion? Why can it not be translated into action to say that you want to revise this piece of legislation so that it becomes clear to all Danes that this is illegal and that this is also what the Socialists want? The Socialist Group in the European Parliament has so much doubts about their own position. Apparently, you deposit your political position in the Criminal Code Council and are more concerned with bureaucratic snags and deadlines than sending out a clear signal that treason is reprehensible. I have serious doubts as to whether the Socialists consider treason to be reprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101846	Frankly, I think that this debate is far too important for this kind of political mud-throwing. I have made it clear and the Minister for Justice has made it clear that we Social Democrats despise the people who take place, join extremist organisations and fight Danish soldiers. The Minister of Justice even made it clear that we regard it as treason. But it is clear that we are also a party that respects that we are a community of law. That is why it requires that we have a legal basis to stand on when we make that change. It has to be right. It's not something you just make up. We cannot manage with empty rhetoric when it comes to legislation. It must be a proper legal basis, and that is why the Criminal Code Council has been asked to make a statement. They have even been asked to advance their work, so their work is expected to be completed as soon as possible. And on that basis, and then I say it again very clearly, we want there to be a legal basis for punishing this type of offence, also referred to as treason.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101957	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522101958	I think it is good that the Socialists can claim that they despise treason. I just think that we could do something more when we have both the Ministry of Justice and a rapporteur in this area. Then we could send out some very clear signals that, of course, this must be made absolutely clear. As long as you don't do it, it's an indistinct picture. I doubt whether we really believe that treason should be punishable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102032	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102033	What Mrs. Marie Krarup is in doubt about, I shall not judge her. But what I can say very clearly is that the position of the Socialists on this issue is quite clear, and I repeat: we despise the people who are leaving. We want them to be severely punished, and that is why the Criminal Code Council has been asked to make a statement. If we did not think this was a serious problem and if we did not want to tighten up the legislation in this area, we would not have asked the Criminal Code Council to make this statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102105	Mrs Mai Mercado, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102107	Well, it doesn't say anywhere in this proposal that it has to be done in a sloppy way. In fact, I think it is quite detailed and quite precise what the proposers would like to see. I simply do not think I understand why the Criminal Code Council cannot be allowed to carry out the assessments which are of a technical nature and at the same time support this proposal and thus politically state that it is in this way in agreement. If there are some people sitting in the debate right now, I think they are thinking: why can't you just do both?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102144	The Socialist position on this issue is quite clear, and I would like to repeat it, so Mrs Mai Mercado also understands it: the Socialists despise the people who leave and join these extremist groups and, at worst, fight Danish soldiers, and that is why we want tightening up the penal code so that it can be punished with the greatest possible sanction and be characterised as treason. But we want to see that, and I thought that was also the policy of the Conservatives... a proper legal basis to stand on before we make any hasty conclusions. And that is the difference between symbolic policy and real policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102224	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102226	That was not an answer to my question. On the other hand, I was told that I and a large part of the Chamber are less gifted. And that is a typical politician's answer: that when you don't want to relate to a substance, you can just say that the others haven't understood anything at all. Why can't you do both? Why is it not possible both to let the Criminal Justice Council work and do their jobs and to get all the technical things in place so that the basis is right, and at the same time politically with this proposal to indicate that it is therefore thought that these chapters should be modernised? Let me just say that there is still a sloppy social democracy. Because when action does not follow words, we may well be in doubt about it, and that is also the question raised by some of the other questioners whether you really mean it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102313	Yeah, you hear what you want. However, may I not make it clear to the rapporteur that what we are discussing here today is that, if the rapporteur had not read the motion for a resolution, it would be a general revision of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. What we are saying quite clearly is that we will certainly not reject adjustments to the individual provisions of the law, but we do not agree with a general revision of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. But that certainly does not mean that we do not believe that this type of wrongdoing, which is about joining extremist movements, should be punished more severely. And it can also mean changes in chapters 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102348	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102356	Thank you for the floor, President, and first of all thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for focusing on Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. After all, the comments made in the proposal go a long way. It refers both to Queen Ingrid, to the Jyske Law of 1241 and the Haitian case from the mid-1990s, when one tries to argue why we need a complete revision of these two chapters. We Radicals cannot support a complete review. We recognise that there may be things that are linguistically less up to date, but we need to use our resources appropriately. A legal review would require a thorough legal review by the Criminal Law Council; that is how you typically do it. I would prefer the Criminal Code Council to take care of the things they have already done, rather than overburden them with new tasks, i.e. a review of two very technical chapters of the criminal code. We put the Criminal Code to many things, and the proposers also help to set the Criminal Code to many things. Last year, a joint Committee on Culture asked that the rules on false stories and libel be looked at, and we actually discussed this in this Chamber yesterday. So I think we're gonna have to save our gunpowder a little bit and then decide what's important. And I would like to mention that there are things in this motion for a resolution that we agree with the authors of the motion, namely that there may be some provisions in the chapters that need to be looked at, and we would very much like to look at them from a radical point of view. The proposers themselves make an important point: whether the provision on the traitor clause or what deals with aid to the enemy during the war, as the penal code states, applies and can be used nowadays in connection with a pattern of conflict that is far from the era of occupation. We radically agree that this should be highlighted, because we also want to be able to punish after the traitor clause. That is why the Criminal Law Council has been set up to look specifically at this part, and we radicals are very much in favour of it. We also support the fact that the statement in relation to this particular issue has actually been brought forward; the Minister for Justice has done so. I think that is wise, and we are very much in favour of this, and I think that the Minister for Justice deserves praise for this rather than criticism in this Chamber today. As the Minister said, the Council's opinion should be on the right track. In conclusion, however, I would like to hear the authors of the proposals whether they are ready to modernise our constitution, and that is because they use the argument that chapters 12 and 13 need to be updated because they have been written in a very different time. It is written, for example, that it is misleading that there are provisions for the widow queen because she died in the year 2000. That is, of course, a good point, I think, but the authors of the motion must also think that the basic law needs modernisation, since it says the King 41 times in it. He has also been dead for at least a number of years, and many other things in our constitution are also extremely outdated. I hope that the authors of the motion for a resolution will make a brief comment on this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102656	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102710	Terror is, of course, quite a serious problem, and we have unfortunately seen that this kind of thing can happen on Danish soil, and it is therefore also necessary that we constantly assess what kind of criminal protection we have in relation to terrorism, so that they keep up with developments. It is about the law being given the right resources by the police and, above all, the preventive measures that mean that young people are not tempted by extremism. I agree with the authors of the motion that some of the points raised in the proposal could require a linguistic review, among others. All this obsession and so on, and I can see the need for modernisation. But now the Minister for Justice has promised to look at this area of traitors, and I think that is satisfactory, and we are waiting in the SF for a final clarification. What has been the challenge so far has been that we have not been able to punish these people who are going to Syria. It is challenging to find the evidence, and it has not actually yet been possible to start a single case at all. I think that is really a pity, but we cannot change the fact that the police must have compelling evidence if they are to be able to reach a verdict, and that has not been achieved so far. Unfortunately, it is also a signal to young people that it is reasonably risk-free to leave because you cannot come after them. After all, the Minister has also set up a terrorist commission which, I hope, will at some point make various suggestions as to what we can do more of. In the wake of the terrorist attack, several working groups have been set up to look at how the police can improve in this area, and we have given money in the pool to ensure that a little more can be done in relation to prevention, among other things. By making exit programs for radicalized. I think basically there are a lot of good things going on. You can always ask yourself if you have to do something else and more. The Minister of Justice is already looking at some of the points raised by the proposers, and I think we should wait for that. This is satisfactory for the SF, which is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102942	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522102953	I would like to start by saying that when I read the motion for a resolution, I was at first slightly in doubt whether we had suddenly got a Danish People's Party that is willing to have the critical review of the legislation on terrorism to assess whether it might be too broad and too comprehensive and whether it is perhaps a problem that we have a terrorist law that can embrace even support for television stations and critical journalism, but then I just read the comments, and then everything was old. It's just an attempt to get the discussion that we've had really, very many times about this concept of treason. I am well aware that this is an important discussion for the Danish People's Party, and that is why I would like to take it again, of course. It is also important for the Danish People's Party to judge people who have joined the Islamic State for treason. But I have to admit, I have a little bit of trouble understanding it. I do not find it difficult to understand that people who join the Islamic State would like to be convicted. It is clear that these are some of the most appalling acts against the civilian population that can be imagined right now being committed in Northern Iraq and Syria, and both military and civilian hostages are being treated horribly and are being killed. It goes beyond my understanding that people can get themselves to do such things, and it is quite clear that if Danish citizens go down and join it and commit such actions, they must be punished for committing such actions. What I find difficult to understand is that the right wing is apparently more concerned about how we punish them for this moral failure towards Denmark, which is what is the offence when you punish for treason. In the Enhedslisten, we are more concerned about how to punish them for involvement in war crimes, ethnic cleansing, terrorism, mass rape, murder, killing, etc. These are the actions for which we believe it is important to have people punished, because they are the acts that are reprehensible. The moral commitment to Denmark seems to me to be secondary, if not indifferent, and I think it is strange to spend time on that discussion instead of spending time on how to solve what is the real problem, namely to collect enough evidence to punish people for the actions committed in Northern Iraq and Syria by the Islamic State, if they are of course Danish citizens and return to Denmark. It is very difficult to collect evidence when something has happened in a war zone, and that is the problem we must try to solve, and that is the problem that Enhedslisten would very much like to be resolved. Unfortunately, there is a majority of parties who would rather discuss an ethical obligation to Denmark and whether the ethical and moral obligation is clearly described in the criminal code. Of course, we're sorry. In the Enhedslisten, we think that's the real problem. We also know that the government has already asked the Criminal Code Council to look at this dispute about treason. We think that is a pity. We think there are other things that can be used for the limited time of the Criminal Court. This also makes the discussion here even more superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522103344	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as leader of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522103356	The Liberal Alliance shares the proposal of the proposers for a linguistic and substantive modernisation of Articles 12 and 13 of the Penal Code. It is a good idea both to see whether the law is understandable, understood in the way that people who violate it can also read themselves to do so, and it is logical to see if it has the right content, among other things. in relation to the debate on treason, which we have also had in the past here in the Assembly. These are serious crimes. It is people who want our society, our state and our democracy bad. It is people who commit serious crimes and who are in favour of introducing a totalitarian system that deprives people of the freedom to be masters of their own lives. In the past, the Liberal Alliance has supported the need to look at punishing those people for treason wherever possible, and we would still like to take part in that. We support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522103512	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522103528	Thank you. Today we are debating a resolution on modernising Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. Chapter 12 deals with crimes against Denmark's independence and security, and here it is a question of correcting some words, among other things. about occupying power and also getting corrected linguistically that it is not only about attacks on Denmark, because this law does not take into account attacks on Danes abroad. I can only say that, on the part of the Conservative People's Party, we support the resolution. There has been a lot of debate today about whether to let the Criminal Code Council finish working on this and whether that was enough, but we believe that the Criminal Code Council is primarily making a professional assessment. One can have a professional judgement alongside a political expression. And with this motion for a resolution, we want to make it politically clear that it must of course be possible to punish traitors. The absolutely worst situation we can imagine is that one might want to prosecute some foreign fighters at a later stage, but that there would be a foreign fighter with a sharp defence lawyer who could walk free because we simply have not shown due diligence and thus have not modernised Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522103654	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522103717	Thank you for the floor. Chapters 12 and 13 of the Penal Code deal with crimes against the state, state security, terrorism, etc., but the law does not mention treason. This has become a problem since we have recently seen that people grew up in Denmark and with Danish citizenship travel to Syria and participate in an armed struggle on the opposite side of the side on which Danish soldiers are fighting. It's not okay, and it has to be punishable. Most, and even most Danish politicians, including the Minister of Justice, have said positively about punishing Syrian warriors for treason. It is therefore also positive that the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Justice's party, the Social Democratic Party, should give a favourable opinion on the motion for a resolution today or the idea contained in the motion for a resolution, while, of course, it is a little pathetic and sad that neither the Minister for Justice nor the Social Democrats dare to stand by the policy they claim to have by not having the courage to support the resolution. It would make things much easier if it were clear in the penal code that treason is a serious crime and also treason of the new kind, where it all takes place not locally in Denmark, but very far from Denmark's borders. The problem, however, is that we have a criminal law which does not mention the word traitor and which is strongly influenced by the period of occupation. It would make it easier for all of us to modernise the language of chapters 12 and 13 of the penal code so that everyone can understand what treason is also in the modern world. It would play an educational and deterrent role vis-à-vis those people who are considering going out and fighting on the wrong side. And it would play a legal role for the lawyers and judges who are going to bring the cases before the people who have violated the law. It would also make it easier for debaters and politicians and ordinary people to understand the context. The context is, of course, that although we live in a globalised world where there has been a shorter interval between, for example. Syria and Denmark because of the modern means of communication, national loyalty and the nation state are still the smallest building blocks of our international system. It is also the building block within the nation state, where we in Denmark are fortunate enough to enjoy freedom, peace and democracy. These are good things that cannot be expected to last if we do not do everything we can to defend them. The understanding that national loyalty is crucial in this particular case is very important. Therefore, due diligence and simply a good and practical idea for modernising the criminal code, so it is clear that it is a criminal offence to be a traitor. And I am grateful to the parties who have indicated that they welcome the resolution and, of course, I am sorry that there are parties that do not have the political courage to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, so that, as the Conservative People's Party wisely proposes, we could not work in two directions: make the Criminal Court nerd with the technical details and the rest of us express a political opinion that we want the penal code to make clear in these areas, that treason is a very serious crime, which must be clearly described also in modern languages and into the modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104108	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104126	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104143	Thank you. Following the resolution here, the government is required to amend the Aliens Act, so that refugees living in Denmark must, as a starting point, have a permanent residence permit in Denmark in order to have a family reunification. For the government, it is important that we have a balance in the rules on asylum and immigration. This must, of course, ensure that Denmark, on the one hand, as a small country and a small society, can take on the difficult integration task that comes with refugees, for example, both for the sake of our municipalities, for the sake of the Danish people and, as such, also for the sake of the refugees whom we provide protection in Denmark. On the other hand, we have a human and fellow human and international obligation in a situation in which millions of people have been sent to flee. We must therefore be able to provide both a realistic response to the challenges and then help people who are on the run. In the view of the government, the law adopted recently by the Danish Parliament on temporary protection is in line with those objectives. That is why we are voting against the resolution here. It is also the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party will not be implemented within the framework of Denmark's international obligations, in particular Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights concerning the right to respect, inter alia, for: family life. Overall, we say no to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104303	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104307	Thank you. If the government cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal, as the government unfortunately cannot, does the government have other proposals on the way? Because what has been adopted so far has not proved sufficient to limit the flow, and I had understood that when the government presented its proposal to amend the asylum rules, the aim was to limit the influx to Denmark. Now, of course, I don't know what level of ambition the government has in this area... I think it's been kept well for itself... but there's still a lot of people coming here, and there's also a lot of people who get a residence permit on that basis, and they want to bring the family up here too. So do you have an ambition and that could be the one question about getting the number down? And the second question is: how are we going to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104357	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104358	After all, we have just tightened up in the area of asylum. We have also had this discussion in the Folketing on many occasions, and I am not sure that we will achieve an agreement by taking the discussion over and over again. At the same time, we want, and we have made this very clear by the government, 1) to meet our international obligations and 2) of course to contribute in a situation where a great many people are in a difficult situation. There is
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104423	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104425	But then I can ask the first question again: is it the government's ambition to bring down the number?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104438	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104439	Yes, it is in that way that we want a good balance to be struck in our asylum policy. And that is why we have already made the tightening-up in the area of asylum that we have by working more on a concept of temporary residence in the area of asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104456	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Sir. Martin Geertsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104506	One of the arguments behind this proposal from the Danish People's Party that we are now considering is that we must ensure that refugees staying in Denmark temporarily are not encouraged to make their stay permanent by having a family reunification. I have to say clearly that the Left fully understands the concerns of the proposers in this area, which is why it is also important that we insist in principle that refugees go back to their country of origin when it is possible to actually return. And we do not think that the government has fully shared that concern. In any case, with a large number of relaxations in Danish immigration policy, they have made it somewhat more attractive to come to Denmark as asylum seeker. In our view, an irresponsible policy when we look at the massive challenges we face in terms of integration and in the area of asylum in general. We in the Left, like the authors of the motion for a resolution, propose tightening up the area of family reunification. Among other things: After all, we have proposed that the conditions for family reunification should be dependent on the assessment of the suitability for integration of the person concerned. In other words, more conditions must be imposed before a permit for family reunification can be granted, when the alien is only considered to be potentially fit for integration in Denmark. However, having said all that, the Left wants Denmark to respect its international obligations, and although there may be a lot of sense in the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party here, the Left has serious doubts as to whether we are sticking to our Convention obligations here and, on that basis, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104702	A brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104705	Thank you. It is a good thing that the Left also wants to tighten the family reunification rules for refugees, so I would like to sign for that. But then comes the argument, which we have also heard a few times from the Minister, so that it is not felt that this can be included within Denmark's international obligations. Of course, you can have a long discussion about whether it can or not, but I would like to ask you a few questions about that part of it, that is to say the international commitments, because we also have some obligations to our own people, and what is the heavier weight? I could then be tempted to ask the Left. In the Danish People's Party we certainly know how we feel about it. But what I would like to ask is what the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, the other day was out to say about what the British Conservatives and Prime Minister David Cameron had going on in Britain, where it is proposed to amend, revise the international conventions, so that more self-determination is withdrawn in our case to Denmark. Is this a process in which the Left believes that a Danish government should support Britain?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104814	I think I will confine myself to saying here that we think we should pay a great deal of attention to English developments in this area. So we have no aversions against debating the international conventions of which we are a part. But what I am saying here is that, as long as we have committed ourselves to international conventions, we must, of course, respect those obligations until we decide otherwise, so to speak. But Mr. Martin Henriksen doesn't get me dragged into that debate anymore, and Mr. Martin Henriksen also very well than to say that we would like to take note of English developments and that we have nothing against the international conventions being discussed, let alone if it can be done at European level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104904	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522104907	But we have been discussing international conventions for some time now, actually for many years, and the Left has also contributed to that debate. And I wonder whether the Left will come to a conclusion at some point in time, in relation to what we think should be done about the international conventions. After all, we can discuss from here to the apocalypse without anything coming out of it. And I assume that when there are Left people discussing it and raising it here as a problem, it is because in the Left it is believed that the international conventions are unfairly binding Denmark to some things that the Left would like to shake Denmark loose, I suppose, because otherwise it was not discussed in the way the Left does. So if you want to go from words to deeds, it must also mean that the Left believes that a Danish government must then sit down with the British Government and talk about jointly how to, for example, talk about how to. It could be an example at European level in the Council of Europe, but it could also be in the European Union. Does the Left believe that a Danish government should sit down with the British Government and find out how to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105007	As I said to Mr. Martin Henriksen before, sir. Martin Henriksen no longer drags me into that debate, and Mr. Martin Henriksen too well, but I understand the question. I would like to say, however, that if anything is to be done, and I would like to stress that I said if
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105045	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Ole Hækkerup as Social Democratic rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105057	Thank you, sir. President. As has already been shown, the Danish People's Party, with this proposal, wants to tighten the asylum rules in addition to the tightening that the government already got through the Danish Parliament in the autumn. If you look at this austerity, you have to admit that it has worked soberly today, at least if you look at the number seeking asylum in Denmark. This confirms to me that the conditions for obtaining asylum and the conditions for bringing the family together are crucial to how many people seek asylum, according to exactly the effect we have seen of the austerity proposed in the autumn and came through right after the turn of the year. Moreover, I do not think that we should underestimate how much signals can also mean precisely in this area. So, one is the rules, but it is also rumored, as has been pointed out by Danish Refugee Aid, for example. Where the austerity that the government got through means that family reunification can only happen if the residence permit is extended after the first year, then the limit with this proposal now becomes 5 years. Similarly, this proposal means that it applies to everyone, i.e. both those who are personally persecuted and those who are granted asylum because they come from troubled areas in a more general way. In view of the fact that the austerity has worked, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105212	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105216	In other words, if it is the ambition of the Social Democratic Party to limit the flow, it must be said that it is not going very well. I understand what the Minister said and what Mr. Ole Hækkerup says today that it is actually the ambition to limit the influx to Denmark. Then you can have a long discussion about how effective the tightening that the Socialists and the government presented here in the Assembly was, but the point is that, whether we have that discussion or not, you can see that the influx has been increasing for some time, and it is expected that there are very many people who are getting a residence permit this year. So if that's the ambition, sir. I guess Ole Hækkerup also admits that no matter how enthusiastic Mr. Ole Hækkerup is for the government's changes to the asylum rules, more is needed. Or is it just that everything is now good as it is today and that we therefore do not need to do anything further in the field of foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105311	Just to get the facts straight, 'cause I don't think so, sir. Martin Henriksen and I can discuss a lot, so I would like to say freely after memory that it is approximately 1,500 gross who have come and applied for asylum in Denmark in the first quarter of this year. This is not necessarily the same as granting them asylum. But let us take the gross number of applicants. In September it was, as far as I remember, and it is again free from memory, approx. 3,000 gross applied for in that month alone. My point was just and I also supported it by the fact that, for example, Danish Refugee Aid has been out to say that at the moment you do a tightening and it is rumored, it also means that the gross number that is seeking falls. I think there is factual evidence to say that this is what has happened if we look at how many people have applied for asylum in Denmark over the last six months of the year. That's one. The second is what is needed in this area. That's how I understood sir. Martin Henriksen's question was somewhat broader worded. What I think is needed first of all is to look at Danish immigration policy a little in a helicopter perspective. What is this development we are seeing? Are there any areas where there is a sudden surge? Therefore, some of what is needed first and foremost is to keep an eye on what we actually see, and then be prepared to report out what we will then do to deal with that development. Why? It is because we must ensure that the number seeking and receiving asylum in Denmark is of a scale where we are sure that we can also keep up with ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105434	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105436	It is true that the number applying for asylum has fallen from an extremely high level to a high level, and this has happened within a few months. But if you compare the first months of this year with the first months of last year, you can see that it is at roughly the same level. If you are looking at the developments that have taken place since 2011, you can see that the number seeking and the number receiving residence permits have increased continuously. You expect up to 12,000 this year, and if we just get close to it, it is actually a very, very high figure. So I do not understand why the Social Democrats are satisfied with current developments. It is always said that we must ensure that there is no more than that we can also integrate them. However, Mr President, the Socialist rapporteur. Ole Hækkerup that we can integrate all the people who are coming now when you look at the massive integration problems we have in Danish societies with Islamic fundamentalism, extremism and parallel societies? You could say that it's extreme, and otherwise it's quieter and quieter. However, we still find it problematic that there is pressure on our culture, our institutions and so on. Do we really believe that we can continue to deal with perhaps even up to 12 000 people a year in the field of asylum alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105544	Thank you! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105545	Thank you. There were two questions, and I have a short time, so I shall be brief. Sir. Martin Henriksen says that we now see about the same number per. This is the first quarter of the current year, which we saw last year, and we can just look at how many came last year. However, at least at this stage there is nothing to suggest that in September and October we will see the same increase in this year as we saw last year. That's why the whole man is resting. Martin Henriksen's premise, namely to say that he must expect that in 2015 the same gross number will come and seek asylum in Denmark as came in 2014, on the false premise that in 2015 we will see the same explosion in the number in August, September and October as we saw last year, and there is currently nothing to argue for that. Does that mean it can't happen? No, it can easily happen, and that is why I said it by constantly keeping an eye on what developments we are seeing and being prepared to take action against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105639	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105653	In the Radical Left, we believe that it is a fundamental right to be able to live with one's family, and this also applies, of course, to people on the run. Sometimes it is the case that an entire family does not have the opportunity to escape together, and then we sometimes see that only one is often the man fleeing alone. And if he comes to Denmark, and if he is entitled to asylum, then of course he also has the right to bring his family here. We therefore think that this is an extremely bad proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party and we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105733	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105738	Thank you for that brief and precise speech by the rapporteur. I would like to ask the Radical Left and the rapporteur, Marlene Borst Hansen, whether the Radical Left believes that it is a strength for Denmark that we have a linguistic and cultural community with each other. And if the Radical Left believes that it is a force for Denmark, how many people think Radical Left so Denmark can handle year by year? There are a lot of people coming to Denmark, it puts the cohesion force under pressure, and if you do not want to support this proposal, you have to come up with some other suggestions on how to regulate the flow in a more efficient way unless you are willing to say that we have to throw the linguistic and cultural community that we have with each other in Denmark into the sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105827	The Radical Left believes that it is important that we have a linguistic and cultural community in Denmark. But it is not the same as that immigration, whether in the form of refugees or labour, necessarily challenges the linguistic and cultural community. The people who come here must learn Danish. The people who come here must abide by the laws of the country. You have, or at least have, the same rights and duties as both Mr. Martin Henriksen and I have. This is among other things. That is why we in the government, together with the Socialists, have led an integration paper which expresses the wish that, as a foreigner, as soon as you come here, you should enter the labour market because we believe that this is the best way of integrating new fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105926	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522105928	But it is inevitable when immigration is the size that it has been going on regardless of whether we are talking about immigration in the form of asylum or labour, and now we are talking about asylum and family reunification today, and if you want to preserve Denmark as a linguistic and cultural community, that the community all else just comes under pressure when an increasing proportion of the population has a sense of belonging to another language and culture. The proportion of the population, which does not have a first relationship with Danish language and culture, is getting bigger and bigger. It's going really fast these years. It means everything else equal, that then there will be more and more people in Denmark who are not part of the linguistic and cultural community, which I can also understand that the Radical Left actually considers to be valuable. So the question is: what do you want to do about it if you do not want to support the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party? Or are you just hoping that it's gonna be on its own?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110022	I think that one of the biggest challenges for the Danish cultural community is this division between them and us, i.e. that there are some who are a little more involved in the community than others. This is, in fact, the greatest challenge on the part of the radicals. Therefore, we believe that the Folketing and the people should stand together to integrate these people in the very best way, so that we continue to have a coherent Denmark which is not divided between us and them, but which is a binding community.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110057	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110109	I also think I can make my speech very brief. After all, we are in the greatest refugee crisis since the Second World War at this time, which means that there are a great many refugees coming to Denmark and that we are receiving some of those people. I think that the right to be with his family is fundamental, and that is why we cannot support the proposal that lies here from the Danish People's Party. After all, refugees are in the special situation that they cannot just go to another country and stay, that they do not just have somewhere else where they can be together as a family. Therefore, we need to ensure that the family can live under safe and reasonable conditions in Denmark, and then the debate must be about how we get these people to be self-sufficient and get them into the labour market. Fortunately, the government has put forward some proposals on how to do this. It goes without saying that the SF is opposed to this proposal. We also disagreed with the government's strategy, which delays the timing of family reunification. We know that 94%. of the people you hit are women and children. We find this unacceptable in the SF. We have to take responsibility for this, and then we have to discuss, in Europe too, how we, for example. Some of the Eastern European countries, which are not making much progress at this stage, are taking part in the responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110234	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110243	First of all, I would like to say to the Danish People's Party's argument that it is also only the government's fault that there will be many refugees: how unspeakable it is, Mr President. Martin Henriksen. I think it is possible to accuse this government of all sorts of things, and I have done so. But not since World War II have so many people been forced to flee. It is deeply sad that the world is in that situation. Surely the current government cannot be blamed for this. I think it's unspeakable. I would also like to say that the DF here speaks against Islamist extremism, and I understand that. Islamist extremism is anti-women and anti-democratic and all the opposite of what I stand for at least. But imagine that the Danish People's Party's response to the people who are fleeing Islamist extremism is: at least don't come here. It becomes a little hypocritical that the Danish People's Party makes one speech after another about how much one turns against Islamist extremism when one says to women and children fleeing from the Islamic State: Back with you. On the proposal, I would say that the Enhedslisten cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal. Today, a wide range of demands are made on foreigners who wish to have their spouse and children brought together in Denmark. One of the requirements is that you should have a permanent residence permit. In many ways, I think that the requirements for family reunification are too rigid. Fortunately, there is an exception for refugees. Fortunately, they do not have to meet the requirement for permanent residence permits until they can bring their family here. There are very good reasons for this. Refugees have not chosen to leave their country voluntarily. They have fled, they are forced to leave their homes because of war, because of persecution, because of oppression. The Danish authorities have then recognised the protection needs of these people and said: You are in danger, your life is in danger, you are entitled to protection, you are allowed to be here in Denmark. People like these refugees are in an extremely vulnerable situation. Many of them have war trauma and torture injuries in their luggage, and they have an urgent and very understandable need to have their children, their wife, their husbands safe as soon as possible. I believe that this proposal tabled by the Danish People's Party, which we are discussing today, is not only an enemy of refugees. It is very much anti-female and child-enemy. Because we know it is the case that in many cases it is the father who escapes in advance. In the families, the assumption is that there is likely to be more chance of father surviving the trip in a sinking boat across the Mediterranean, surviving the encounter with the traffickers than children or women do. We know that many women who try to take this escape experience sexual abuse. Some are sold to traffickers, etc. So it's no wonder a lot of people send daddy in advance. The Danish People's Party will then deprive these people of the right to have their children, their wife to safety afterwards. As I said, I think this is an anti-women's proposal, and I think it is a child-enemy proposal, just as I believe that the government's latest draft law, which in the first year deprives spouses and children of the right to safety, to be united, is anti-women and child-enemy. But there is no doubt that what the Danish People's Party has put forward is much, much worse. So no, Enhedslisten does not vote for the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110652	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110657	Thank you. For the record, this proposal does not prevent people from fleeing from a war zone to, for example, a refugee camp; it prevents them from coming to Denmark. I think it is essential to have that nuance with us. Having said that, I would like to know whether Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen does not recognise that the immigration we have had and have had to Denmark, and also the flows of refugees that we have to Denmark, to some extent Islamic fundamentalism in Danish society actually promotes. Doesn't Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen recognize that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110729	Now there are, of course, primarily Islamic fundamentalists among people who believe in Islam. The vast majority are not Islamic fundamentalists, but it is clear that if there are people in Denmark who believe in Islam, there is also a greater likelihood that some of them will then be Islamic fundamentalists. But what an unspeakable approach to the profoundly serious problem and the unhappy situation in which the world finds itself, sir. Martin Henriksen has: Not since World War II have so many people been forced to flee. Sir. Martin Henriksen and I have visited Jordan together. We visited one of the refugee camps that has received hundreds of thousands of refugees from Syria. Sir. Martin Henriksen had at that time an idea that we could send the very few, as seen in the great perspective coming to Denmark, to Jordan. Sir. Martin Henriksen asked the Jordanian Interior Minister, who was polite but who replied: I'm sorry, we have over a million refugees from Syria, I wonder if Denmark could take the few thousand that Denmark gets!
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110837	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110842	I find it interesting that Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen also regards it as a fact that immigration promotes Islamic extremism in Danish society. That is how far we have come, and I acknowledge that because it is important that we can discuss it from the point of view of reality. But this is because there are wars and conflicts in the world, it is a law of nature that Denmark should accept many refugees, I have never fully understood. After all, there are plenty of countries both in Europe and elsewhere in the world that hardly receive any refugees. Then Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen cannot see that if, on the one hand, you want to avoid, for example. parallel societies in Danish society and a lot of integration problems and, on the other hand, would like to help some people, could there be an idea that Denmark or the EU or the UN put pressure on some of the countries out in the big world that do not have a tradition of receiving refugees and that have not received refugees for decades? There are also countries in the neighbourhoods. There are some who receive many, but there are also countries in the neighbourhood that receive virtually none.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522110937	Let's start by saying that over 90 percent. of the people in the world who are on the run are internally displaced or living in the vicinity. So all that nonsense about the locality not taking responsibility just doesn't make sense. As I said, the vast majority of refugees live as internally displaced persons in war - plagued countries or in the vicinity. For example: Jordan has taken over a million refugees, as has Turkey. So says Mr. Martin Henriksen, that there are countries in the world that do not accept refugees. That is absolutely correct. Some of them are not in a position to take on the task, but others are, and indeed, we must try to get these countries to take on responsibility through the United Nations and the European Union and everything else else. But it's gonna be a kindergarten argument, sir. Martin Henriksen, if you say, "If the others don't bother, we don't bother."
ParlaMint-DK_20150522111022	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522111036	We are in a situation where there have been no more refugees at any time since the Second World War. This requires the world to help, and it requires Denmark to take on its international responsibility. It is a human obligation to help people in need. The most humanistic answer would be to help as many people as possible. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance have proposed that Denmark help refugees in neighbouring areas to a much greater extent instead of accepting a few selected people here in Denmark. By helping the refugees in the neighbourhood, we can help many, many more for the same money that we are now helping fewer people. And it is better from a humanistic perspective to help more people, even if we cannot see them in our daily lives, than to help fewer people here. There are many reasons why people are fleeing. It can be war, it can be personal persecution, it can also be something as simple as the hope of a better future in an economically better-off country. Of course, we cannot grant a residence permit in Denmark on the basis of the latter, but we cannot think about people trying to get a better life, a better situation. But, of course, there are limits to how many people can live in Denmark, especially in a system where self-reliance is not required. We must also be honest with each other and say that the group of asylum seekers is harder to integrate than the group of immigrants and the group of family members. The statistics say that quite clearly. There can be no doubt about this. In the Liberal Alliance, we want fewer people, we need to help get direct asylum in Denmark. It must be the people who are actually persecuted who cannot be helped in the immediate areas. However, we must help many, many more in the vicinity of conflicts with good, decent Danish-funded refugee centres, where it is possible to have a life until we can hopefully return to the country we came from when the situation has improved. We must also ensure that those refugees who then receive asylum up here are not made victims of the social state by clienting people who are actually able to take care of themselves from day one. Unfortunately, there are too many stories about that. Recently I met a young man who was a refugee from Iraq and had been granted a residence permit, and he told me that when the family, I think it was a 10 years ago, had been granted a residence permit here in Denmark and had to be integrated, they had been visited by a well-meaning lady from the municipality who explained to them how both a washing machine and a refrigerator worked. As he said, his sweet mother didn't have the heart to tell the lady from the municipality that in Baghdad they had actually had a refrigerator that could make ice cubes, and not such a simple one as they had here in Denmark, because unfortunately they couldn't afford to buy a proper refrigerator when they came here. Yet the integration worker thought that she should inform the family that it was a place where food was stored so it didn't get bad. You know, you don't do people too much. We cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party here, because we believe that those who are granted asylum should, of course, have the opportunity to live with their families, although we want to change the rules on asylum in Denmark significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522111521	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522111531	The Danish People's Party has proposed that refugees seeking family reunification can only get it when it is that they have been permanently resident in Denmark, which means that they must have been here for at least five years. Let me just say that, in the Conservative People's Party, we are primarily interested in limiting the number that comes here, and the most far-reaching reason why we reject the proposal is that we are concerned about whether the proposal is contrary to the Convention. For us, it is important that we live up to the conventions to which we have committed ourselves, or at least try to change them; we are happy to support that. But as the proposal itself is here, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522111618	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522111629	Thank you for the debate, although it does not push the world around, at least not today, but I do think that there has been an excellent discussion on a very serious subject. It is mentioned so often that Denmark has to shoulder its share of the responsibility. I would just like to say, for the sake of good order, that if you mean it, understood in that way that lifting your share of responsibility means that we must continue to accept a great many people here at home, then for decades Denmark has accepted many, many thousands of people, so I actually think that we have been lifting our share of responsibility for a very long time. There are, after all, countries in the world which do not accept refugees, including countries in the neighbourhood. There are countries in the neighbourhood that receive a great many refugees, but there are also countries in the neighbourhood that do not actually receive refugees. This proposal will not prevent people from escaping from a war zone. That does not prevent it in any way. It prevents people coming to Denmark, and that is the point on our part. If the proposal were adopted, it would mean that the government would be required to work towards ensuring that the family could only be brought here once a permanent residence permit had been granted. It has been a problem for decades that immigrants and refugees to Denmark have subsequently brought their families here. In recent times immigration to Denmark began in the 1960s, it increased in the 1970s and has almost exploded as a consequence of the easing of the Aliens Act in 1983. Ever since 1983, a significant part of immigration to Denmark has taken place through the arrival of many asylum seekers who have subsequently received family reunification. We had this tightened up under the former bourgeois government, which was supported by the Danish People's Party under the VOK majority. It was the right thing to do, and it was the necessary thing to do. Unfortunately, this government has relaxed asylum and immigration policy in a large number of areas. Then there has been a slight adjustment of the asylum rules here recently, which unfortunately has not had the effect that could have been hoped for. In accordance with the normal rules, it is today the case that a refugee can, in brief, apply for permanent residence permits after 8 years of legal residence in Denmark if, for example, the refugee. has shown a willingness to integrate and has not committed crime. However, refugees can also obtain permanent residence after five years if they comply with the general rules to which everyone else must comply. If this proposal were adopted, it would be a significant tightening of the rules on family reunification if it were a general condition that the resident refugee had a permanent residence permit. The Danish People's Party believes it is important to distinguish between refugees staying temporarily in Denmark and other foreigners staying in Denmark for more permanent stays. As far as refugees are concerned, I think that we should stick to that, and I would also call on the other parties to stick to that, because I think that sometimes they have left their country of origin for a period of time until the situation in their country of origin is such that they can return. They seek residence in another country and must then be protected there until conditions are again tolerable and they can return, as I have said. A refugee must therefore be granted temporary residence without the possibility of family reunification. If the conflict in the country of origin continues and the temporary residence permit in Denmark is extended, it is possible for the refugee to apply for a permanent residence permit already after 5 years. If a permanent residence permit is obtained, we believe it will give rise to the possibility of family reunification. The aim of this proposal is to limit the influx of people to Denmark and to ensure that all parties also understand those who come to Denmark that the stay in Denmark is temporary. If the family is brought to Denmark, it gets the fast character of something that is more permanent. That's what all the experience in this field says. Generally speaking, we want to tighten up the family reunification rules, but this proposal relates only to those with refugee status. I can see that it cannot be adopted at this stage, but it must not be a secret that we in the Danish People's Party will continue to work to tighten up the rules for family reunification and for asylum, because we need that if we want to maintain Denmark as a community based on the fact that we are very much a linguistic and cultural entity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112039	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112042	I really wonder a little about this proposal today and what we had yesterday, because yesterday we discussed whether a proposal was unconstitutional and today we are discussing whether the proposal here is contrary to the convention. So I would just like to ask: now that the Danish People's Party knows very well that there are parties in the Parliamentary Chamber who attach great importance to the international commitments that have been made, both in the form of conventions and also in relation to our constitution, we must respect if nothing else, we must at least change the basic law if one wishes to do so, or withdraw from the conventions, why does the Danish People's Party make the proposals that one knows one is the only party to support, because the other parties think that the international obligations are so important and that our constitution is so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112126	Well, that's because we put our obligations to the Danish people higher than that. That's quite simply why. It is, of course, a little naive, I admit, but when we hear how the other parties express themselves in the public debate, we could get the impression that they actually wanted to limit the influx to Denmark, including the Conservative People's Party. And then we sometimes think: well then we have to see how we can move forward; then we have to make sure that something actually happens, so that it is not just talk it all, but that there is also some action. If it is the case that it is not felt that the Danish People's Party's proposals can be implemented because it is considered that the international conventions are more important than the obligations to the Danish people, then I think we should make other suggestions as to how we can tighten up concrete bids which we can put forward in the Parliamentary Assembly so that we can start from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112207	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112210	Surely there should be no doubt that the Conservative People's Party also wants to uphold the Danish values. The Danish People's Party does not have a patent for that at all. But I am just wondering about the nature of the proposals that are being made, because if we now put forward proposals to amend the constitution or amend the conventions, we could have a real debate, but the proposals put forward by the Danish People's Party are symbolic rather than really creating a real debate where we could actually move something.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112239	But this is not contrary to the basic law. I do not know where the Conservative rapporteur comes from; I simply do not know that. I would also like to say that if you want to safeguard Danish values and want to preserve Denmark as a linguistic and cultural community, which I also had a question for the radical rapporteur, then you have to do something other than just talk about it. That is what you have to do. And if the Conservative People's Party does not want to support the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, which is fair enough, then I would urge that some other concrete proposals be put forward on how we actually limit the influx to Denmark. The only thing I have seen from the Conservative People's Party when it comes to substance is that there is a candidate for parliament from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader, who has said that the flow of refugees to Denmark is at a reasonable level, and there is also a proposal to lower a number of thresholds so that non-western immigration to Denmark becomes even greater. So some proposals have actually been made which are moving in the opposite direction. However, if you want to protect Denmark as a linguistic and cultural entity, you should put forward some proposals that tighten up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112335	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112402	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112408	Thank you. The arrangement we are about to discuss has been in existence for over 25 years under changing governments, and it means that the state pays for the transport to Denmark for family members of refugees in this country. It is the International Organisation for Migration and Danish Refugee Aid that is responsible for the transport and receives the payment, which covers the transportation of family members to Denmark and up to the municipality of residence. I understand that the proposer wants the scheme to be abolished. As I said at the last point, the government's position is that we should pursue an alien policy, including in the area of family reunification, which is balanced and proper. Especially with regard to refugees, we have a special responsibility because it is so clearly a group that needs protection. The arrangement we are discussing is limited to the transport of family members to refugees and not other foreigners. This means that the scheme only concerns a group in need of protection which, because of the flight, has been separated from their families. The scheme, on the other hand, does not give foreigners other than refugees the right to recover transport costs by family reunification, and therefore the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112523	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112527	Thank you. One thing is that we may disagree on how family reunification rules should be etc., but another is that we should then also pay for the transport to Denmark. You are actually received at the airport, and it is ensured that you are followed to the right gate and so on, if you are going to fly on domestic voyages. So I think you're very, very gentle about making sure these people come to Denmark. And I simply cannot understand from a reasonable point of view that Danish society has to pay for the plane ticket. My comprehension simply goes out of my mind. What is it unfair to say: If you pick up the family for Denmark and then we can discuss how you can do it and pay for it yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112612	I think it is really so simple that if it were the message we gave to our refugees, they would not have the opportunity to bring their families here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112619	Sir. Martin Henriksen? Not anymore. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112635	See, there should be no doubt that the Left also wants a new direction in foreign policy. We have presented a number of concrete proposals both in the field of foreign policy in isolation when it comes to labour, and also when it comes to integration. There are, of course, two things that regulate the influx to Denmark: one is the asylum rules that we have and that, for my party, we support should be within the framework of the international conventions we have. And the second part, which regulates the influx to Denmark, is about what kind of economic conditions we give. It is in this category that we are very much here. The proposal, in all its simplicity, seeks to put an end to the practice that the public authorities should cover the travel costs associated with family reunification. I think that this is a sensible proposal. I find it a little difficult to see the reasonableness of the fact that the government has to pay to fly its family to Denmark. However, I must also admit that the proposal here, if implemented, has some very limited revenue gains, since this is a relatively small amount which we spend annually on transport. So the Left has a more fundamental approach to this and supports the proposal, because we think that, if you are to be a bit bold, the Danish state should not act as a travel agency when it comes to family reunification. Our view is that you want family reunification to Denmark, so it is a private matter. Against this background, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112834	Sir. Ole Hækkerup as Social Democratic rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522112842	Thank you, sir. President. As has already been shown, the Danish People's Party, with this proposal, wants to eliminate some of the costs of travelling in connection with family reunification. The fact that the Danish State contributes in this way can be said to fulfil a right granted to persons under Danish legislation has existed, as I believe the Minister has already stressed, for more than 25 years, i.e. over 25 years. under a wide range of different and changing majorities and under a wide range of different and changing governments. I believe that the reason why it has been maintained for so many years is really quite sensible. The people concerned have been granted this right by the Danish state. There we can then discuss whether they should have it, how many should have it, and when and how etc., but they have been granted that right by the Danish state, and if they were abolished, I think that those people would try to obtain the money in all kinds of other imaginable and unthinkable ways. And if they do, I don't think it'll be very easy to make it work afterwards for the people this is about. I simply think that people in this situation would try to recover money from all sorts of places or lend it to the black market or whatever it may be. I think so simply because I would probably do so myself if I were in a similar situation. I therefore believe that it will be more harmful than beneficial. I say that also with reference to what has already been said by Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen raised the question of the level of revenue. So, on this basis, the Socialists cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113027	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113031	Let me ask you this: how does Mr. Ole Hækkerup that many people perceive it when refugees come to Denmark and you see that they for example. Jumping into the home line? How does Mr. Ole Hækkerup that many Danes perceive it? Do they think it's fair? How does Mr. Ole Hækkerup that many Danes perceive it when this government and other parties have made sure that refugees have a special access to Danish folk pension and are actually better off than Danes who have been travelling for a number of years in other countries? Thinks sir. Ole Hækkerup, that Danes see this as reasonable? On top of that, we also have to pay for it if they want to bring the family to Denmark. - Sir... Ole Hækkerup didn't see that from a reasonable point of view it might be combed just a bit over? Then you can have a discussion about whether these two to three million. kr. a year is a lot of money. Well, I think 1 million. kr. is a lot of money, but you can have a discussion about that. But sir... From a reasonable point of view, does Ole Hækkerup not see that it has simply gone too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113131	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113135	Thank you. From a reasonable point of view I think most Danes have the following starting point: Denmark is not an island, we cannot isolate ourselves from the rest of the world, but Denmark can certainly not save the world alone either. That means that we have to take responsibility, but we also have to ensure that the responsibility we take is not greater than we are sure that we can keep up with ourselves. I would also think that most people will have that attitude, which follows on from what I have just said, that we will have to have some relatively tight rules to get to the country and to get the family to the country. Then we can have a discussion on the number that we had just before and where I was glad that Mr. Martin Henriksen agreed with my considerations if one tried to imagine the projection for this year. That's one. The second is: what are we going to do with those we have decided to be allowed to enter the country? I believe that we must do what we can to make it work, and I believe that as a Socialist this is based on the application of rights and duties.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113223	Sir. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113227	I'm never gonna understand it when mr. Ole Hækkerup says we have some tight rules. In other words, if strict rules are equivalent to the fact that there are record numbers in Denmark, then we certainly have strict rules. I am not sure that this is the common idea of what a tight asylum and immigration policy is about, but peace be it. I simply do not understand how one might think this is fair and I do not think that Mr. Ole Hækkerup answered my question. My question was as follows: How does Mr. Ole Hækkerup that many people perceive it when they can see that there are refugees coming to Denmark who skip into the home queue? They do so in a number of areas, and the government has made it easier for the municipalities to ensure that even more people can skip into the home queue, but we can take that another time. How does Mr. Ole Hækkerup people consider it reasonable or unreasonable? How does Mr. Ole Hækkerup people perceive it when a special privileged access to Danish folk pension for refugees has been granted? And how does Mr. Ole Hækkerup people perceive it when we on top of it pay for them to pick up the family? Thinks sir. Ole Hækkerup really that people think it's just perfectly reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113324	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113327	When Mr. Martin Henriksen says that there will be record numbers in Denmark, so it is contrary to the facts. Because if we look at the first quarter of this year, we can see that, grossly after memory, 1.500 people have come to seek asylum, which is not the same as the fact that they are necessarily granted asylum. If you compare with last year, you can see that there was the same gross figure in the first quarter of last year. Does this mean that this year will be like last year? No, it doesn't, because what characterized last year? It did so that we saw a large increase in numbers in August, September and October. That is why the government came up with the bill, which said that now there will be a temporary residence permit of one year before family reunification is possible. We have seen that precisely that decision has been heard, and the signals, which mean a great deal in this area, are one of the reasons why, I believe, the number coming and seeking asylum in Denmark has fallen. It's not just me who thinks it has, for example. also Danish Refugee Aid been out to say. So I do not agree with Mr. Martin Henriksen says that there will be record numbers in Denmark. On the contrary, I think it has to be said that when this austerity was launched, it also meant that the gross number of people who came and sought asylum in Denmark fell.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113433	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. And that means that it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113446	The Danish People's Party proposes that it should no longer be the public who pays when a family has acquired the right to family reunification. The vast majority of people who will be included in this resolution will, of course, be refugees who, for the most part, come to Denmark without much money, if any. They are going to start a new life here, and we believe that it would be a really bad start to life in Denmark if you had to start with debt, which in part would be the consequence of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. The Radical Left cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113536	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113547	I think it will be the day of the short speeches. In the SF we are not prepared to support this resolution either. We think it's basic that you can be with your family. It is obvious that refugees who have just arrived and who are struggling to obtain everything they need to adapt to this country cannot also afford to pay for the family reunification which means that you can be reunited with your wife and children. That is why we do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113620	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113624	Well, I would also like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, because I could not have Mr. Ole Hækkerup to answer that question clearly: How does the Socialist People's Party think that many people perceive the situation when it is so that they can see that, for example, there is a situation in which people are not able to understand the situation. is a lot of Danes • It may also be immigrants who live here in advance • who have been on a waiting list for a dwelling, waited for a lot of years, and then some come and skip the queue? Does SF think it's fair, or what? You just think that it is quite all right with the Danish people that this is the case? Is it also quite acceptable with the Danish people when it is the case that refugees have special privileged access to Danish folk pensions? Is that all right, too, on the basis of reasonableness? Isn't there some upper limit to how many special and special rights we have to grant to people we have said in the first place: okay, now we'll take you and give you a residence permit? Isn't there a limit somewhere? Does Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt not see that this is quite unreasonable? One thing is that you grant a residence permit to their families, but that you pay for the plane ticket and even make sure that there are people at the airport at home to run them to the right place where they should be. Isn't it just by combing a little bit over with the many concerns that I am sure the Socialist People's Party would like to take?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113739	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113742	I think there's a reason why Mr. Martin Henriksen is in a different party than me. This means that in the SF we assume responsibility for the people who come here with all that that entails. The refugees, for example, can: not even earn a retirement pension for the simple reason that when they come here in the middle of life it will be possible for them. If we now give them a new country to live in, where they cannot transfer their old-age pension, then, of course, we must also take responsibility for it. The alternative is that we see some exceptionally poor and poorly functioning pensioners at some point, and we in the SF will not contribute to that. I was actually happy when we made up for what, among other things. The Danish People's Party had been involved in introducing for refugee pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113829	Sir. Martin Henriksen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113833	Well, I know that the Socialist People's Party is happy every time they have the opportunity to roll back some of the sensible things that the Danish People's Party had carried out under the previous government. But then let me ask the question in another way: when, for example, we do. At regular intervals, cases with Danes who for various reasons become ill abroad are injured, or whatever it may be, and lie in a hospital bed abroad, but do not have the possibility of being transported to Denmark because the sick cannot be transported home with public help, how does SF think that the Danes are looking at those cases when they can see that if there are some people who have come to Denmark and who we have given a residence permit, then the public purse can look out in relation to their families being able to come to Denmark? They don't even have to be sick or anything we pay for them to come to Denmark. Can't Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt see that this is beating unfairly?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113916	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113919	I think that we should do something for all people, and that is also about refugees. I do not want to be a part of the poverty of refugees, as the Danish People's Party would very much like. I believe that this gives an exceptionally bad start to a life in Denmark. This is going to affect their children, who are going to do worse, and then we have a major integration problem. But that does not mean that we should not also do something for Danes who live in this country. And I think sir... Martin Henriksen knows SF well enough to know that we are also fighting for many social rights for those who live in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113952	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522113957	Again, I have to start this speech by saying that I simply think that the Danish People's Party's criticism of Islamist fundamentalism appears hollow, not to say hypocritical, when you see how much effort the Danish People's Party is making to find ways of bothering the people who are fleeing Islamist fundamentalism in particular. The Enhedslisten cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal. When we dealt with the previous item on the agenda, namely the proposal to require permanent residence before the refugee can have family reunification, I called the proposal anti-female and child-enemy. I believe that the same can be said about the proposal we are dealing with now, namely that refugees themselves will have to pay the family's trip to Denmark once they have obtained a family reunification permit. Most refugees come to Denmark with no money at all. Many have put themselves in a very deep debt to smugglers. Most people do not walk straight into the labour market and get a well-paid job. If we adopted the Danish People's Party's proposal, it would mean that many refugees would have to save for a very long time in order to be able to afford to be with their spouse and children. And again the consequence would be that more women and more children had to wait longer to get to safety in Denmark and to be reunited with the father who has typically fled in advance in the hope of being able to provide security for himself and his family. I often hear the right, including the Danish People's Party, criticising the current asylum system for, as well as being in favour of the wealthy refugees who can afford to pay for people smugglers. It is true, too, that there are all kinds of injustices in the asylum system, one might say. I don't know how to solve the problems, but they're there. Nevertheless, I would say that hardly any refugees are wealthy, but some of them are so desperate that they put themselves in bottomless debt to pay huge sums to traffickers, among others. because politicians have closed all legal avenues to seek asylum in Europe. This resolution will, if anything, harm those refugees who have little money and who have had to save themselves and put themselves in debt so that they can afford to escape. The same will apply if they want to bring the family here. I think it is only fair that, as part of our commitment to protecting refugees and ensuring successful integration into Danish society, we should ensure that children and their spouse can of course be safe. I would actually like to say a few words about integration, because there is an incredible amount of talk about integration, but sometimes I think that these are only hollow words from the Danish People's Party. I doubt that one is really interested in integration, because I think it goes without saying that if a refugee • a man or a woman who has been granted asylum in Denmark cannot get his children to safety, he cannot get the children to Denmark, then he creates a really bad breeding ground for integration. I'm sure sir. Martin Henriksen himself can imagine how awful it must be to have come to safety himself and to have hoped and believed and wanted to be able to create safety for the children, and then it could not, because one cannot afford a ticket etc. That's a really bad starting point for integration, sir. Martin Henriksen. I believe that people who are desperately afraid of their children and their spouse because they live in a war zone, for example, have much more difficulty learning Danish, entering the labour market and taking an education than people who know that now there is peace, because now the family, the children, are safe. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114404	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114415	In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that it is a quite reasonable principle that you pay for yourself and yours. So we are doing the same in this matter, and that is why we can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114430	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114441	For us Conservatives, it is primarily the families who take responsibility for themselves. When it comes to this proposal, a small proposal, by the way, from the Danish People's Party, I would say that we think it is good that, as a family, we pay first and foremost for that transport if you want your family here, and that is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114504	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114514	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate. Nowadays, in the context of family reunification, refugees have the right to have the flight paid by the government, and the right to have the ticket paid applies to the following persons: a spouse of a resident refugee if the marriage has been concluded before the entry of the resident refugee into Denmark, and children under 18 years of age of a resident refugee. If the resident fugitive wants the journey paid by the public, the journey must be arranged by Danish Refugee Aid through IOM, which is an international organisation for migration. If the resident fugitive or family arranges the trip themselves, the cost of the tickets will not be refunded. When the refugee's family arrives in Denmark, Danish Refugee Aid is present at the airport at the gate and assists with passport and customs controls, luggage delivery etc. If the family is going to the domestic airport, they are being helped there and on the right plane. The Danish People's Party considers that the current system is unfair and we generally want to tighten family reunification rules. It was also the proposal that we discussed before this, but regardless of what rules apply in the area of family reunification, it is therefore unreasonable that the public should pay for the trip to Denmark, and on that basis we in the Danish People's Party want to change legislation by the end of 2015 so that the public sector no longer has to pay for the transport in connection with family reunification for indigenous refugees. It is incomprehensible to me that some people may be against something so sensible. Thank you to the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance for their support. We hope that if, at some point, the majority changes, if the voters so wish, then this is some of the things we can look forward to changing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114653	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114724	The debate is open. And this is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114729	It is, of course, fundamental that consumer goods should have the shelf life that is to be expected at the time of purchase, given the nature of the goods, the price, etc. There are already a number of rules in the Consumer Contract Act and the Procurement Act on the obligation to provide information to the seller and requirements for the nature of the goods, as well as a number of powers for the buyer if the goods do not meet the expected requirements. The rules we have in this area have the advantage of applying them to all categories of goods and not just to electrical and electronic products, which, I hope, will provide a relatively clear legal situation and perhaps also a slightly clearer legal situation than if different rules are introduced in different categories of goods. I have a fundamental sympathy for the intention of Enhedslisten with the proposal here, but we do not think that the government believes that it is quite clear what the consequences will be of the proposal, nor how the organization of an information system such as the proposed one should be precisely drawn up. The proposal may need to answer some questions, for example. the date at which the information is to be provided in the sales chain, whether it is when the products are placed on the market or at the time of the conclusion of the purchase agreement. Nor do I think it is quite clear what sanctions and enforcement options are being proposed. Finally, there is also the question of where exactly an indication of the lifetime of a product the proposers want to require manufacturers to come forward. If you make demands which it is difficult for producers and traders to meet, it can very easily mean more expensive goods. I don't think that's the goal. However, I believe that experience suggests that if a legal situation is made more unclear, it will often in fact weaken the position of consumers. So I have no doubt about what the intention is, but we cannot support the proposal on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114939	Thank you. Sir. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten, a short remark, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522114942	Unfortunately, there is little doubt as to what the consequences of the current legal situation are, namely that systematic efforts are being made to reduce the durability of products. Among other things, it can be done. is seen by some products for some reason, for each year that goes by, having a shorter lifespan; in some cases as with printers etc. you can see directly that they are programmed to stop working almost on a certain date. Then I would just like to ask the Minister if she does not agree that this is an issue that it would be appropriate to go in and try to address. Perhaps this time we could look beyond our own limit and e.g. look to France to see what has been done there and consider whether the rules that have been put in place, in which account has probably been taken of some of the issues raised by the Minister of Justice, are one of the lessons we could learn from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115039	So, I do not know whether there is any evidence to say that there is systematic work to reduce life expectancy. I dare not agree with that on a stand-by basis. But I can see that, in such a common pattern of consumption in an ordinary family, there are relatively many electronic products that have a very rapid end-use date, and perhaps it is also faster than in the past. I wouldn't dare say that. I would like to enter into a discussion on how we can ensure this. We're probably not gonna make it on this side of a choice, but I think it's a relevant discussion. Whether these are exactly the methods that Enhedslisten is proposing here, I hear there is also a goodwill in terms of being able to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115119	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115123	So, the Minister is right to say that with this motion for a resolution we are moving on to something that is at least new in Denmark, and that is why, of course, in connection with the committee work that will normally come, we have to deal with these matters thoroughly and properly. And then the Justice Minister is probably right that it's a little hard to imagine that the work is being done on this side of a choice. So I see it in this way that it is at least an issue on which we have the opportunity to enter into dialogue, including with the Socialist-led government that comes after the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115151	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115153	There is a commitment to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115200	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115205	Thank you. Although I know that this does not necessarily give way, I have to say that when the rapporteur of the Liberal Party, Mr von der Vring, is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). Henrik Høegh, unfortunately absent today, I will read out his rapporteur's speech here: with this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten will introduce a requirement that the life expectancy of all electrical and electronic products should be stated. The Enhedslisten refers to a new French law requiring white goods manufacturers and retailers to inform their customers of the longevity of individual products. The manufacturer must indicate the life expectancy to the dealer, and the dealer must inform the customer in writing, and if one of these steps is not complied with, a fine of up to DKK 112,000 may be imposed. per Once again. Producers are also obliged to repair or replace defective products free of charge within 2 years of purchase. The Enhedslisten wants to introduce this legislation in Denmark, but it also goes further than in France, because the motion for a resolution calls for the law to apply to all electrical and electronic products, and not just those in the white goods sector, as is the case in France. The Left acknowledges and agrees with the intention of the Enhedslisten with this motion for a resolution, but we also believe that it would be more appropriate to allow this work to take place at EU level. The industry can experience reduced competitiveness if we go Danish alone, and in addition, we will probably have a lot of imported goods that do not meet the Danish standard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115348	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sina, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115355	Today we are going to consider the Enhedslisten's proposal that manufacturers should in future provide information on the life expectancy of electronic products, a proposal that should address producers' use of planned obsolescence of their products. We Social Democrats fully agree that it is problematic and appalling if producers speculate about making products that break up within a certain period of time. That is why we already have reasonably good protection for our consumers today; both through the Consumer Agreement Act and the Buying Act, consumers in Denmark are guaranteed a wide range of rights. Today it is the case that a product must have a shelf life which, according to the nature of the item of sale and the circumstances, the buyer has a reasonable reason to be able to assess in some way. Therefore, consumers today can expect the goods they buy to meet a proper standard, and if they find that a product is defective, then they can get the goods fully or partially refunded. Having said that, we must, of course, always be aware that the legislation is following developments in society, and that certainly also applies to consumers, where developments in relation to electronic goods are going lightning fast and where it can often be difficult to orient oneself. At the same time, we need to be careful when imposing new information and information obligations on producers and companies, because it creates, no matter how you turn it and turn it, increased bureaucracy, and that should only be done when it is very necessary. If we choose to take action against producers who use obsolescence in the way that Enhedslisten describes it, we will certainly also hit all those who produce quite decent products. That is why we must bear in mind that more detailed requirements for consumer information can also affect a great many people who do not need it. So it is always a balancing act when we regulate politically the relationship between producer and consumer. On the one hand, we must ensure that the consumer has proper conditions, but, on the other hand, we must also be careful, as this can affect a lot of decent businesses and ultimately lead to higher prices for goods, and that is certainly not for the benefit of consumers. We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament give priority to the conditions and rights of consumers, and we therefore agree with Enhedslisten that planned obsolescence should not take place. That is why we are working, among other things. also to introduce a differentiated warranty right on particularly expensive product types in the Union context. This is an international issue, as has already been pointed out, so we need to bring the European Union in. Above all, as I have said, we believe that in current legislation there are rules that ensure Danish consumers against planned obsolescence, but this is a debate that we must always take up and follow very carefully. However, the Socialists cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115645	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115649	After all, this is a matter which has at least two elements. One is that it is true that consumers must, of course, be protected from the fact that the products they buy cease to function before they have to. I believe that there are a great many examples of this. The second is that it is also a terrible waste in terms of resources, that we produce goods which then do not work during the period they can. I would just like to ask Mrs Sina whether the Socialists do not agree that we should go into this issue from both angles and try to see whether we are not able to achieve improvements in terms of legislation, regularly or through agreements in relation to the state of affairs today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115733	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115735	In other words, the Enhedslisten himself refers in the resolution to this German study in this area, and if I read the study correctly, it also says that today we really lack data on the extent of this, namely whether it is something that is really happening very much. So we're working on a slightly vague data base in relation to this problem. It doesn't change the fact that, as the Minister said, we all sit a little with the experience that, hoof, then the iPad broke. So I guess there's something in this. But just to get it in place: we need some data to be absolutely sure how this is going to develop, and that's why I think we should follow this development closely. I also understand that this is not just about consumer protection, but also about sustainability in relation to the way we produce products and the way they keep. So I fully acknowledge that there are two elements to this. I do believe, however, that we know that, for example, we do. in a European context, looking at the right of complaint, in this way also can force producers to really ensure some more sustainability even at the production stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115844	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115846	I am, of course, pleased that there is a willingness to look at this issue, also because it is almost too clear in some areas. I know people, fortunately, who know electronics, and who almost by pressing only a button are able to get a printer to work, where otherwise it was written on the screen, that now it doesn't work anymore because it is now worn out. This is perhaps an example, I think, of some of the things that might be possible to take action against. But I look forward to working on this issue. Even if it stays on this side of an election, maybe it's a little doubtful because someone will probably insist on having a summer holiday, even if the election should come before the holiday. However, this is certainly an issue that I can say we will follow up on afterwards, because we think there is a great deal to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115930	Well, I just think it's good that Enhedslisten is going to continue following this development, because this is an area where we all sometimes sit and think: Ahr, can this be right now? What I'm just pointing out is that we're really missing some clear evidence of how this is happening. I think that could be really useful, because one could then seriously take up this matter in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522115954	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522120000	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we fully recognise the problem that Enhedslisten raises with the proposal, namely that there are some situations where you get a feeling that an obsolescence of the product is planned. That is one premise. The second premise is, of course, in relation to our resources and the environmental impact when you produce things repeatedly. That's it. However, in relation to the proposal itself, we also believe that it would make things more expensive if we agreed that sellers and businesses would be required to provide written indications as to how long an appliance should last. That's one thing. The second thing is that you have to be able to supply spare parts for a certain number of years. In this way we simply believe that products are being made more expensive and we also believe that some of them are simply unrealistic. There may be a producer who produces some things that are being sold and then goes bankrupt. Then you might have stood so much in a business and said that there are spare parts in the next 10 years, but it just doesn't apply anymore because the company doesn't exist. So there will be some instances where it simply will not be possible. That's what it is. I think it's important that we get to work on this, because we've seen that there are some places where you get this feeling very quickly that as soon as the guarantee has expired, things are dying. It is simply annoying as a consumer that you need money and so on. On it. So if this happens, it's not fair. I think sir... Per Clausen himself mentioned printers. However, it may surprise me a little when the issue is being attacked in the two ways that Enhedslisten does in the proposal, that something like television is not being taken with it, because television is also environmentally harmful. And everything else equal writes Enhedslisten himself that they are often replaced, not because they no longer work, but because you want a new functionality or simply a smarter TV, because that's the way it is. Finally, I would just like to say that we cannot support the proposal, but I think it is important that we do something to find out if there are these planned expiry dates for electronic products. I think this is really important, because it is not okay. That is not what is meant when you buy some things, that you have a defective product right after the guarantee has expired. However, I would also like to say that I am a little surprised that the proposal itself is very much concerned with electrical appliances. Now I know that appliances are a broad concept. However, as far as I can see from the German study that has been carried out, the average life expectancy for household appliances is around 13 years. It may well be that I have misunderstood it, but that is how it must be, and I think that is actually pretty nice, and it is at least beyond the guarantee period. The Danish People's Party certainly cannot support the proposal as it stands, but I hope we can see whether we can do something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522120310	Sir. Per Clausen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522120312	I am not going to delay the matter today, but just say that Mrs Pia Adelsteen misunderstands the proposal when she thinks it is only about white goods. This is what has been achieved in France and has only been achieved in the case of electrical appliances. So we agree with Mrs Pia Adelsteen that we need to look more broadly at electrical and electronic products. So I think we agree on that, and I think that the speech that came from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, like the previous speeches, gives good reason for us to be able to work seriously on this and perhaps also look at some of the experiences they are now doing in France when they implement legislation like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522120345	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522120346	I fully agree with that. At any rate, we have seen some examples where we might well have an ugly suspicion that some things have been going on that should not be happening and we have seen broadcasts about it. So I think it's quite relevant that you go up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522120401	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lone Loklindt, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522120408	I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for bringing up the proposal. In the Radical Left, we actually think that it is very good to have a closer look at this, because it is, of course, totally unacceptable if there is a built-in obsolescence in products. Now we can say about the study in Germany, which refers to the fact that there are such slightly different interpretations of it, but there is at least good reason to make sure that, both for the sake of consumer protection, where there are guarantees, a time limit for complaint and a period of guarantee, but also, in particular, in relation to resource consumption, we do not have products that are prematurely barred and in this way burden the consumption of resources on the planet, one can say more than necessary. This is extremely important. It is also interesting, in fact, that legislation has now been put in place in France, at least in relation to the part relating to electrical appliances, because that makes it possible for us to look at how it is going there and what the experience is going to be with it. But on the radical side, we are a little afraid of having to demand a new labelling system, because we already have a number of labels, and it is quite important that we can keep things within the labelling systems that we already have, so that it does not become quite incalculable for consumers what they really need to comply with. But what I think is also interesting in this context is if, in the environmental sense, you think in a more circular economy, that is, the fact that we can use the products longer and recycle the materials. And there it is very important that we also see that more and more products, rather than being sold as a property item, are becoming a service where you can buy the use of a product. And, in this context, the development is in the right direction, because if the manufacturers of white goods or other electronic equipment have to lease their products to the consumer, there will probably be a completely different interest in them lasting longer and that you can totally control when you want to get the resources back in relation to being upgraded to a new model. So the question is certainly very relevant when it comes to looking at whether in this way we can help promote the circular economy and promote interest in precisely maintaining that products have as long a lifetime as it is optimal in terms of the consumption of resources, and in terms of the function being usable, rather than getting a resource consumption that is about very much-deserved equipment that just goes to landfill. So the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, but is concerned that we can discuss further in committee whether we can in any way send out some kind of signal about the intention, which I agree with Enhedslisten in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522120802	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The Socialist People's Party's rapporteur is not here, so we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522120826	I understand that Enhedslisten has fallen over a post in the Engineer, which is about that household appliances do not last as long as they did in the old days. I do not know now whether this is such epoch-making news, and certainly not a problem that we believe should call for legislative initiatives. After all, we are throwing ourselves at many problems in here which we believe the legislative power should deal with, and now Enhedslisten believes that we should require manufacturers and dealers to provide information on the longevity of different electrical appliances and whether it is possible to obtain spare parts. Well, one can of course express sympathy for a desire to solve the problem if one does not believe that the current safeguard rules take care of it, but I think it can now be extremely difficult to determine how long a product lasts. For excuse the comparison, you can drive in many ways. Some people actually drive rotten. Isn't that what they call it in those circles? I think the old Opel Captain with the soft hat lasts the longest. And if you take a shirt from H&M that costs less than half of a normal shirt, then I think most people are aware that the fit may not be expected to last for the next 5 years. Then what do I want with it? I therefore believe that consumers can deal with many of these problems themselves. We think the nanny state has to stop somewhere. Even if such rules for the lifetime of these products were to be administered, I really do not think that we should be dealing with public authorities and control bodies with this type of task. So neither do we, even if France or other countries thought this was a good idea. We are against the motion for a resolution for these reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121034	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121041	Thank you. We are dealing here with a resolution based on three things: (1) an article from the Engineer; (2) a five-month-old law from France; and (3) the first half of a study from Germany. I didn't read the survey myself. I admit that, but I have been informed by people who have read it that the conclusion actually shows that white goods last on average 13 years with consumers. It is 2 years longer than a marriage average does in Denmark. Various rapporteurs, both the Socialist and the Radical, addressed various issues in the proposal. I'm not going to repeat all of them. The rapporteur was also concerned about the problem of Denmark going alone with the European Union in this area. We agree with that. So the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121129	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121142	I suppose you can divide the speeches that have been made in this debate into two groups. One group says that it is true that there exists a concept of obsolescence in products and that, in this sense, it is a challenge and a problem, among other things. For consumers, who are thus forced to change products more often than they would otherwise have to do, thus being forced to spend more money. No one has then mentioned the positive effect of it, so to speak, namely that we may then also have more consumption and more jobs and everything else. In any case, it can be said that there are some who recognise that this problem exists and that, in addition to being a burden on the consumer's economy, it is also a burden on nature and the environment, because it creates unnecessary use of resources and causes unnecessary pollution and difficulty in disposing of waste. It is surely one category of parties that recognises that this is a challenge and a problem. Then there are those who have not discovered that this problem exists, and it is of course quite right that we have not discovered it. If I had not noticed, I do not believe that the articles in the Engineer, the references to the German study and the references to French legislation would have convinced me that there was a challenge. Now it's just that you regularly, for example. If you use a printer or other electronic devices, you have a very clear experience that here they have not really had the energy to build the obsolescence all the way through, so they just make sure that the machinery stops working. If you know someone who knows a little about it, they can make it work again, and of course it's not that bad. However, I would just like to say that, in my view, it is a very obvious challenge that we are faced with, that producers have an interest in the fact that products last a certain number of years and then not a second longer. And to be sure of this in cases where the consumer's behaviour has not caused the product to wear out already, it is ensured that it stops working. For the sake of Mr. Villum Christensen I just want to say that now the opportunity to abuse his washing machine by wild driving is somewhat less than when we're talking about a car. I certainly do not have the imagination to imagine how, by switching between different programmes, I could achieve something much greater toil than so many others. But it's probably my imagination that's too limited. We can also see, and I think we already knew this, that what is happening in this way is that, instead of being longer, the life of the products is actually getting shorter. But if you come and say that this is something we know is a problem and that it is something we experience is a problem, then people will sometimes be inclined to say: Do you have some scientific study that shows that it is right? However, I think it is also a good opportunity to look at whether something can be done in relation to it, both from a resource-based approach to the discussion, but also from a consumer perspective. I can see that the inspirement of France is not so popular here in the Folketing. I have noticed that this is also true in other areas. The more internationally oriented parties are, the more sceptical they are about taking legislative proposals and inspiration from other countries. If nothing else, you can always refer to the European Union or some other world organisation, where things have to be done first. But don't let it spoil the relatively good atmosphere here on a Friday afternoon close to the summer break. So I will confine myself to stating that there is at least broad support in the Folketing to engage in serious work to look at how to solve these problems or challenges if necessary. I therefore very much agree with the radical rapporteur that it may well be that one of the right ways to go in this context is to focus on the circular economy, which also presupposes that some requirements are made for the products, namely that the various elements of one product can be replaced and replaced with others, and that in this way the product's longevity can be ensured, plus that some of the elements included in the product can also be used in other contexts. So, there you will also have to make some demands on the product, despite the fact that this might lead to the product becoming a little more expensive in the first place. Then I would just say in all silence to it that you switch TV sets or flat screens out, because you have discovered a new functionality you miss, that for me it has most often been the case that when I've got a new TV or a new flat screen, I've had a lot of trouble seeing what I should use all the functionality for. But that's probably the challenge you're going to face when you've reached my age.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121625	Sir. Villum Christensen, a brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121627	Thank you. I just have one point of view. This is prompted by Mr. Per Clausen's cheerfulness over the comparison between cars and washing machines. I understand, sir. Per Clausen does not recognise that there may be objective problems in defining how long something can last, compared to who is using it, and how to use it. I have to understand that a washing machine can only be used in one way. Of course, we also have other products. But what does Mr. Per Clausen to the problem that it doesn't matter what you put into a washing machine? At least I remember that when I wash my running shoes, sometimes it says strange sounds. And that probably doesn't make much sense. You can also think of other things to stuff into such a washing machine. Does it really matter how things are used when it comes to defining a period of time a product can last? Does Enhedslisten not recognize that this is the kind of administrative device we set up, and then you think you can control everything, regardless of how people behave? That is, in fact, my main point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121735	I kind of agree with Mr. Simpson. Villum Christensen in that you can destroy anything, if that's what you want. Of course, we can also exercise behaviour that is not appropriate, and I fully agree with that. Therefore, this is also about discussing how to find a solution to the challenge • if you think it is a challenge • that companies make sure that products stop working before they need to stop working. If you think it is a challenge to consumers, to the environment and to the consumption of resources, then you have to find ways to solve it. The French have tried to point one way, and we can go in and see if this is the right way, and then we can discuss whether there are other ways to go. But I do recognize that Mr. Villum Christensen is right that we humans are able to destroy immensely much, as long as we make enough effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121818	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121852	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 26 May 2015. Will Mr. Steen Gade justify the request? Yeah. Sir. Steen Gade as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522121928	Thank you. On behalf of all parties in the Danish Parliament and as chairman of the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building, I should just like to say briefly that we think that the statement that is before us calls for a discussion here in the Danish Parliament, which will enable us to also discuss some challenges for the future in the next phases of energy policy. That is why we have notified a question today and I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522122008	Thank you, and it should come now. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522122031	Thank you very much. During the past year, Danish energy policy has again been in decline, and everything from security of supply to the cost of PSOs has marked the debate. If I am to highlight an overall theme of energy policy in the past year, it must be that the framework for implementing energy policy in Denmark is changing, first and foremost at European level, where, in October 2014, we were given clarity as to the objectives to be applied up to 2030 in the EU area. Overall, the EU must reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40%. in 2030 compared to 1990, and a binding target for renewable energy was set at 27 per cent. An energy efficiency target of 27 per cent was also adopted. Unfortunately, the latter objective is not binding. The government would have liked to see this, as energy efficiency improvement is at least as important a field of action as increased implementation of renewable energy. A strong and ambitious European climate and energy policy is central to ensuring as cost-effective a change in the Danish energy system as possible. The government will therefore work to ensure that the EU sets a visionary framework for energy and climate policy. Most recently, with the Energy Union, the EU has also reinforced its focus on integrating the Member States' energy systems to the benefit of, among others, European security of supply. The increased Europeanisation of energy policy creates opportunities as well as challenges. The closer integration of energy systems helps to ensure a cost-effective transition where the possibility of exporting and importing electricity is improved. This increases the value of the Danish-produced wind current, and the possibility of importing electricity from our neighbours contributes to the Danish security of supply. It is a system that we have had for many years in the Nordic countries and that has served us well. Now it is also important that the same thinking is spread to the rest of Europe and that we jointly reap the benefits. There have also been challenges. There is a new framework for State aid in the field of energy and the environment, and the European Commission focuses on whether the Danish PSP system is in breach of current EU legislation. The changed framework will have an impact on the way in which we organize future support for, among other things. renewable energy on. Moreover, I am full of confidence that we will solve the challenges and that we will have the many benefits of greater integration and Europeanisation of the energy policy of the countries. The phasing-in of more renewable energy and the ever closer integration of the various sectors of the energy sector and the electrification of the energy system are the basic ingredients of the transition towards 2050. The electricity sector will be the focal point of the transition, and appropriate and up-to-date regulation of the sector is essential to ensure that the transition takes place as planned and as appropriate. It is precisely for this reason that, following the Energy Agreement in 2012, the government launched a comprehensive work aimed at clarifying what the future regulation of the electricity system might look like, and the work was anchored in the El Regulatory Committee. The starting point of the committee's work is that regulation should support the interaction between the different parts of the energy system, thus ensuring a good framework for continuing phasing-in of renewable energy and contributing to a cost-effective transition characterised by a high degree of security of supply. In December 2014, the Electricity Regulatory Committee published their report, which proposes a number of proposals on how the regulation of the future electricity system should be. The recommendations will be the starting point for a political process in the near future, in which we will follow up on the great and thorough work that has formed the basis for the report. There are still voices in the debate, which are very concerned about industrial energy prices and competitiveness. However, there is good news for them too. Looking at the trend in electricity prices to industry, it can be seen that the Danish electricity prices to industry in recent statistics are lower than the EU average. This is due, in particular, to the fact that the charges for industrial process energy consumption with effect from 1 January 2014 have been reduced to the EU's minimum. As regards gas prices, concerns have been expressed as to the impact of the Danish target of phasing out natural gas pine in 2035 on the costs of the parts of the industry using gas. The government is aware that the green transition may have an impact on certain industrial energy costs, and the government naturally takes note of the concerns of industry. It is basically a priority for the conversion to be carried out cost-effectively and taking account of the competitiveness of the industry. This was also reflected in the growth agreement of the summer of 2014, when we just launched a series of initiatives aimed at improving the energy competitiveness of companies. We rolled back the security of supply tax and the gas PSO; we eased the cost of PSO for companies; we adopted initiatives to streamline the supply sector. Realising the efficiency of the supply sectors requires new regulation. In addition to promoting competitive energy prices, a new regulation will simultaneously aim to stimulate demand for efficient components and system solutions for the benefit of the development of Danish energy technology. Should it prove necessary to present further steps in the future to ensure a competitive and strong Danish industry, this is, of course, something the government will take the initiative on. Moreover, companies also have the possibility of obtaining subsidies through the RE to the process pool from the Energy Agreement if they want to replace fossil fuels with renewable energy sources. This year's energy policy statement takes stock of a number of core energy policy areas and let me just highlight a few. Our power security is absolutely top-class. This is something we need to safeguard, which is why in January 2015, the Danish Energy Agency started work with a number of key actors in the energy sector, so that we can get a sense of how security of supply will develop in the short and medium term. In February 2015, it became clear that it is Vattenfall who is to build the new offshore wind farm Horns Rev 3, and it can supply power at a price of 77 cents per year. kilowatt-hour. It is significantly cheaper than the last time we built offshore wind turbines in Denmark, and it is right now the lowest price for sea wind in Europe. This simply confirms to me that Denmark is a pioneering country when it comes to pressing the technological development of the wind turbine industry so that it can compete in the near future on commercial terms. And the transformation of our energy system not only benefits security of supply and the environment and climate; it also contributes to creating a home market for innovative solutions to energy and climate problems. The Danish companies that are ready to deliver the products that can solve the challenges of the transition are strong as the transition in the countries around us takes off and it is to the benefit of Danish growth and employment. During the past year, a number of reports have just underlined that the energy sector in Denmark represents a significant contribution to the Danish economy, whether it is the export of energy raw materials or Danish energy technology and service. Most recently, a report published by the Danish Energy Agency, DI Energi og Dansk Energi has underlined that the export of energy technology is one of the things we are very skilled at here in Denmark. In 2014, Denmark exported energy technology for 74.4 billion. kr. That is an increase of 10.7%. in comparison to 2013. The 74.4 billion. kr. is equivalent to 12 per cent of exports of energy technology. of the total exports of goods. These are fine figures, and it is very much green energy technology that drives export growth. In 2014, Denmark exported green energy technology for 43.6 billion. kr. equivalent to 581⁄2%. of total energy technology exports. That is an increase of 15.6 per cent. In relation to 2013 it is, if I may say so, Chinese growth rates. The energy policy statement indicates that we must expect future production of oil and gas not to be able to make the same significant contribution to the Danish economy as has been the case in recent years. It is obvious that exports of energy technology can help to compensate for the lower economic activity in the oil and gas sector. As more and more countries within and outside the EU transform their energy systems, there will be very good opportunities to sell Danish energy technology products and solutions. So the government is working hard to redeem this potential. As the report shows, this is precisely why we are working with a number of countries where we focus in particular on emerging economies and where we are trying to ensure that their future economic growth is driven by green energy. We do this by sharing Danish experiences and Danish knowledge about how renewable energy is phased into the energy system. It is for the benefit of the environment and climate, but also for the Danish companies that are ready to deliver state-of-the-art climate solutions and energy technology solutions. Although Denmark is infinitely small in total global greenhouse gas emissions, it is through a strong commitment in countries such as South Africa and China that we can make a significant contribution to ensuring that global greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. The cooperating countries therefore benefit from Danish experience and Danish expertise to the benefit of their security of supply and the global fight against climate change.• At the same time, Danish companies have the opportunity to deliver Danish technology and know-how. Denmark is only interesting, however, as long as we go ahead and show our partners that conversion is possible and to pay. Therefore, we must not become less ambitious when, in the years to come, we have to organise the future energy policy in the years after 2020. Despite recent teasing about the government's 2050 objectives of fossil freedom, it is still my impression that the work for an ambitious transformation of the Danish energy system enjoys broad support across the majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, although there are nuance differences in terms of speed and extent of change. This creates the basis for a sound and objective exchange of views, which I very much appreciate. In conclusion, as so often before, I would like to stress that the support and great consensus of the parties of the Folketing is crucial if we are to ensure a cost-effective transition that is supported by both the population and industry. The decisions we are taking today will have far-reaching consequences for the way our energy system looks in 2050. The government will unceasingly work to ensure that Denmark also has an ambitious energy policy with broad political support in the future. And I look forward to continuing constructive dialogue on how best to achieve the energy policy objectives for Denmark. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123013	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Steen Gade, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123025	Thank you for that and thank you for the statement by the Minister. I would like to start by saying the same thing as the Minister concluded by saying that, despite many scruples over the last year and some difficult discussions in the energy conciliation circle, we have managed to stick together and we have managed to maintain the level of ambition. That is what I think is important to emphasise. When I say that, it is because this is a six-year agreement, and I actually think that we can boast that it is one of the most comprehensive, perhaps the most comprehensive, that the Folketing has ever made in order to give the environment, and hence also the economic environment, clear rules and frameworks for the future. That's what makes it so quiet that some people will throw the hundreds of millions of dollars that are needed into this project. I could also take this opportunity to criticise some of my colleagues, but I will not, because I think the interesting thing is that we stuck together. Sometimes, over the past year, we have reduced some taxes. This has caused a problem, in terms of increasing CO2 We have then had the division of labour that when we have had to do it somewhere, SF together with Enhedslisten has had to go to the government and try to make compensation elsewhere. That has been our role. It would have been nicer if we had had the compensation as part of the agreement, but I admit that the energy agreement is not a CO2 it is an energy agreement. So that is the role we have played, including in the climate debate. Then I'd say we're on track. We basically follow the whole plan in the expansion of wind energy. The line is perfectly clear in the proposals for adoption that lie behind it. The last figures also show that biogas expansion has become much more significant. So we are on our way to renewable energy development, and the energy savings also seem to be running. Then there will be a discussion about the European Union, which I would just like to mention here. I agree with the Minister that this is an important part of our energy policy, including in the future. It is about security of supply in Europe. 400 billion The EU buys energy for other countries per year. Imagine if that money was spent in Europe so that we could exploit the fact that we are helping to develop the technologies. That is why our response to the EU Energy Union is: let them, however, focus on renewable energy and the development of technologies that combine renewable energy instead of investing in nuclear power and expensive gas brought forward from gas stocks. It is a stupid part of it and there are parts of it that we are also critical of. Then I would like to ask what the next challenges are. It is to integrate our wind power into other systems, primarily our district heating system. It is to integrate it into the transport sector and make the transport sector more green. And we need a tax and subsidy analysis, which has been promised to us. It must be used to re-establish our tax and subsidy systems so that we promote the political objectives we have. I am particularly concerned about district heating, because if we do not get it done fairly quickly, we risk most district heating plants choosing biomass. I think this is a fault track, apart from some places where it makes sense to use local biomass. But basically, it's a mistake, since we have so much wind energy. Finally, in 2015 there will be COP21 in Paris on climate. Therefore, my call to the government is: Now put your nose directly in the track called 100 per cent. renewable energy in 2050. Do not shake your hand, and let us use the Danish example here. Although we are not in place, however, we are at the point where we are close to a paradigm shift throughout our energy supply, and thus we are further ahead on that point than other countries. Let us use that example to influence and discuss with other countries. Finally, I would like to say that in 2018 we will have to have a new agreement, and one of the most important tasks of the next Parliament will actually be to prepare an even more ambitious plan for the period 2020-2030. On behalf of the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party and then my own party, the SF, I have to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament maintains the goal of an ambitious green transition and a forward-looking energy policy. The Danish Parliament notes that Danish companies have increasing revenues from green energy technology exports and that the green transition contributes positively to climate, environment and green jobs. The Danish Parliament notes that the green transition of the energy system requires a flexible and coherent energy system and calls for a long-term solution for propellants based on VE. The Danish Parliament notes that more coherent energy systems and markets allow better capacity utilisation in Denmark and ensure security of supply. The Danish Parliament calls for EU and regional development to be affected so that it contributes to a cost-effective Danish energy policy. The Danish Parliament notes that the current tax and subsidy structure, including the uncertainty about the PRS tax after 2016, is inappropriate. Therefore, the Danish Parliament urges the government to complete as soon as possible the comprehensive tax and subsidy analysis as agreed in the 2012 Energy Agreement and continue negotiations with the European Commission to find a solution to the PSO case. V 57).
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123708	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123721	I think that was an excellent speech, sir. Steen Gade stopped. So I'm gonna ask him some of what he didn't get into. After all, there is a very intensive debate on the question of shale gas in North Jutland and elsewhere in the country at the moment. Total has now decided not to carry out any extraction in North Zealand and congratulations to the North Zealanders. They are in many ways happy. In this context, however, it has been stated by the SF President, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, that SF has a plan to tighten up environmental legislation so that it will be impossible to extract shale gas. I don't know if sir. Steen Gade today could lift a little of the veil for what the sharpening is actually about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123804	That's right, sir. Per Clausen says that together with Enhedslisten and the government we have taken some initiatives in recent years to pull the decisions into the Ministry of the Environment and away from the municipalities, and we have changed some rules so that they are tightened up. And then we have set out to look carefully through where we need sharpenings. Let me mention one of the things that should have been investigated and should have been taken into account when the previous government granted the authorisation. It's about if there's radioactive substances coming up. There we have received an answer from the Minister for the Environment, who knows only one thing about this, namely that there is some radioactive waste in this connection, even if it is low-radioactive, then it should be sent to Risø. This is a sort of example of the fact that the legislation is not in place, and that is certainly one of the things we will be looking at. We have asked 35 questions here the day before yesterday to the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Climate and Energy to get this done in more detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123911	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123913	I think that's really good. I had just got the impression that SF had some concrete suggestions on how to tighten up the legislation so that we could be absolutely sure that shale gas was not extracted in Denmark. But we are in a slightly more preparatory phase, and that is fine. It's just because I think it can be important when you discuss this, that you know exactly where we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522123934	Well, it's true that we haven't written down exactly where it is. But one is the issue of radioactive waste, and we need to have rules that are different from just saying that we will take a position on that later. The second point I would like to make here is that of injections of chemicals into the underground, where they are permanently located. After all, no authorities in this country have thought this through in advance, and I think this is quite frightening and an emphasis on the fact that when Lykke Friis, as Minister for Climate and Energy, gave the authorisation, it was done in a totally inappropriate and unreasonable way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124012	Thank you. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124017	Thank you. I have a question about the economy, and then I have a question about security of supply. These are two important things. I could understand that it became a very long text that was read out, as a result of the statement here, and there were so many plus words, one must say. You might almost say that here we are doing well. Here we are doing well. Send more money. It is a complex agreement, and you can always pick some things out, and Mr. Steen Gade too, and I will then allow myself to pick some of it out, as Mr. Steen Gade didn't mention anything about it, but it's very, very clear here, because it's on two sides next to each other, namely on page 4, where it says "Now I'm going to say a little about wind, because it's the crown jewel in the energy agreement."The total value of wind in 2014 was 2.7 billion. kr. kr. On the side opposite, there is such a nice illustration of the PRS tax, and it is made to see how much business has got at a discount. It states that the PSO tax in 2014 amounted to 7.4 billion. kr., I repeat: 7.4 billion. kr. So we have a total wind value of 2.7 billion. kr. and we have PSO charges of 7.4 billion. kr. Now I know that it is not all PRS that goes to wind, but does the rapporteur think that it is good merchanthood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124149	I do not think I will answer 'yes' because it is a slightly leading question, but I will answer precisely that when you build new power stations, you invest. What we are doing with the PRS contribution is investing in future power plants. They are paid over a shorter period than 10 years, but they stand for 25 years. So, in case mr. Villum Christensen instead would have built a coal power plant to replace some of those who are worn out, and that is the point, Mr. Villum Christensen also has an investment pool which he had to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124231	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124234	Yeah, that's one way of looking at it. I think I will move on to security of supply, which I also think is important. After all, we are in a situation where the combined heat and power plants are having a really hard time. They cannot produce power at the price you can get on the market, and we are in a situation where we have to have backup when the wind does not blow, when we have glued most of the country to windmills. This brings me to the simple question: has this transition, for which we have now received so many words of praise in the statement, led to better security of supply or a lower security of supply, when we have in mind the concerns of Danish Energy and others that we have probably never had more difficulty in ensuring that there is also power in the contacts when we turn on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124337	Firstly, I do not think that this is a way of seeing my previous answer. That's the way it is. After all, we have worn-out power plants, which have to be replaced by something else, and now we are building wind turbines instead of building coal power plants or something else bad. But with regard to the backup capacity, I have read in the statement here I might also know that we have had negative electricity prices in 0.5%. of the time, 0.5%. of time, and in terms of security of supply, we are the country in Europe that has the greatest security of supply. This is one of the reasons why we have a fantastic energy network and good cooperation with our neighbouring countries. So it is actually possible to have a very secure energy supply, and so we have more secure energy supply than other countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124426	Then it's mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt from the Left for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124430	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur referred to developments after 2020. In the coming parliamentary term, we will probably be looking at what will happen after 2020. I would like to know what level of ambition SF has in this regard. After all, we heard the Minister say that the EU has a goal of having 27 per cent. renewable energy by 2020. Denmark already reaches 35%. renewable energy by 2020. How far do we have to go in front of the other EU countries? The statement also points to some of the challenges that are associated with the Danish climate and energy policy, which are already well ahead of the EU objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124527-2	I appreciate the last addition. After all, that is something we have agreed on, namely that we should have an ambition that was at a different level. For the fact that we are taking the lead, I would say: are we doing this now? I think we're going straight out. We have together put a ship in the lake, which means that we have to go very far in terms of renewable energy, that we have to go very far in terms of biogas, that we have to go very far in terms of wind energy in particular, because we are skilled at that and we are one of the countries in the world that has ensured that it is becoming competitive on the market. I believe that within five years it will be competitive on the market. So I think we should go straight out. As far as our level of ambition is concerned, as to what should be included in that agreement, it is not something that has been completed. SF was very concerned that it should say that our goal was to 50 per cent. Our electricity supply should be made up of wind energy, and we reach that, as far as I can see. And I think that we should then continue to develop wind energy considerably in the coming years. Why shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124636	Thank you. Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124638	But it's quite expensive. So far we have had a Danish strategy in which we, as energy policyers and as Parliament, have determined how much of the Danish electricity supply should come from wind energy, biogas, biomass, solar energy, etc. Could the rapporteur imagine that we would use the market as a driving force in the future, in terms of what technologies we should be aiming for, so that we do not set targets for individual technologies, but rather use the market more to determine what technologies we should be aiming for in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124710	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124712	I find it interesting that it is the rapporteur of the Left who, at least to a large extent, helped us to give a very large amount of support to biogas that says this. But this illustrates, in fact, that there are two considerations to be taken into account. One is the market. I believe that we can, of course, succeed with the industry in getting the wind energy market matured so much that it should not be supported at some point in the next 5-7 years. I don't know a hundred percent, but you can see how fast it is to cheapen the wind energy. Of course we must take account of the market, but there are also other considerations. We think, for example, that it is sensible to use manure and wet biomass from the waste sector. That is why there will always be other considerations, because if we are now to turn our waste sector into a circular economy, there will be a need in the future to link the energy sector and the waste sector in a different way from today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124817	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522124833	I would like to begin by welcoming from the Conservative rapporteur, who is unable to be present today, and from this I would like to express my support for the proposal for adoption which has been read out recently in this Chamber. The energy policy statement is always very, very exciting reading. It provides an overview of what is happening in the energy sector. And when you look at the statement, there are a lot of things that we can be very, very proud of in Denmark: that we are a showcase in the energy sector and that in many areas it goes quite well. The report also shows the outcome of the broad energy agreements that have been in the Folketing. I believe that, if we do so, it is perhaps over the last 20 to 30 years that there has been and is now a broad consensus on energy policy. This can be both sensible, but of course it can also be a challenge. It makes sense to ensure that there are broad shoulders to bear the energy policy, that the many players who need to invest both companies and private companies know the framework conditions for many years to come. And, of course, both state and private investments are quite substantial. Looking forward to 2020, it is, of course, in the order of 75 to 125 billion. kr., which private and public companies will invest in the energy sector. That is why there is common sense in the fact that there is a good, secure framework around it. We also welcome the offer of Horns Rev III, where we came down to 77 cents per. kilowatt-time it's up to 32%. less expensive than in the tender and the implementation of the Anholthavnsvindmølleparken. That is all well and good, but there are also challenges in climate and energy policy. There is, in particular, an economic challenge. When we look at the development of the cost of conducting the current climate and energy policy, it is a very expensive affair. The PSP is up to approx. 7 billion kr., and since it is the PSP that finances the green conversion, it is a quite significant cost that is here. We were, of course, very pleased that last summer we managed to conclude a growth agreement which reduces the total cost of the PSO by more than 13 billion. kr. towards 2020, but there is the Left it is absolutely crucial that we make sure that we carry out the green transition as cheaply as possible, that we rely on as cheap solutions as possible and that we use the market to a large extent to promote the cheapest technologies. There may, of course, be technologies which, for a period of time, the SF's rapporteur referred to this just now regarding, for example: biogas and other measures must receive higher support, but the aim is that it should be the market that drives the green transition to a greater extent. We also need to look at how we can at all cheapen the Danish climate and energy policy. Then there's the PESO. What do we do with it, Minister? What is to be done in the future? We have had a challenge after the European Commission has overruled the way in which we in Denmark levy the PSO tariff. How do we figure this out? The government bears a very, very great responsibility for finding a solution so that we can calm it down and the whole green transition. After all, with the unrest created by the European Commission's proposals, there has been uncertainty: what will happen after 2017? Therefore, our call to the government is that it is absolutely essential that a solution be found very, very soon. Then there's the tax and tax analysis. We are still waiting for that, Minister. It has been promised several times, yes, it has actually been promised years ago. It has been postponed several times, and I have to say that in this area we need to have a political debate on how to turn energy taxes and taxes in the future together so that they support energy and climate policy. After all, many taxes have been introduced many years ago and have only been about getting more money in the treasury, and many of them are also countering the green changeover. It's a big challenge. Total charges for the area are in the order of 41 billion. kr. And getting ready to redistribute 41 billion. kr. I think that will be quite a challenge. However, we can only call on the government to promote this so that we can get the debate going on in this area. Then there is the whole question of security of supply. Here, too, we are challenged. The more renewable energy is the more wind there is in our energy supply, the more we are challenged in terms of security of supply. What's going to happen to the cable buildup? What is to happen in relation to the central and decentralised cogeneration plants? How much backup should there be in the Danish energy supply, so we are also sure that there is always power in the power outlets and that companies can count on electricity to be available? Finally, there is the whole question of the export of energy equipment. The statement shows that we are on the other side of 70 billion. kr. More than 50,000 are employed in the production of energy equipment in Denmark. It is quite nice and well done, and it is absolutely crucial for the Left that we maintain the position that we are a pioneer country, that there is an opportunity to demonstrate renewable energy in Denmark and that we can make it coherent. That is why it is also crucial that we continue to be in the lead in terms of research, development and demonstration. Under the previous government, we spent over a billion dollars. kr. on State co-financing of energy research in Denmark. That amount has been fairly fixed since then, but for the Left it is absolutely crucial that we also continue to have a high level of ambition in this area. For us, this is the best way to support industry and technology development, namely by ensuring a high level of research and development. So there are enough challenges to address, and we think it is absolutely crucial that you not only dig down and say that you have now found the only right solutions by 2020 and also the period after, but are also ready to look at new opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125552	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125556	Thank you. I would like to say that I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Lars Christian Lilleholt in that the question of charges, tariffs and rates etc. is absolutely crucial to resolve if we are to be able to get to where we want to go if we can otherwise agree on where we want to go. Today, however, the way in which the charges are arranged often acts as a block for all reason, regardless of how it comes together. There's one thing I'd like to ask, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt said, and that is in addition to that, that we must ensure that we keep the costs down. I agree with that, of course, it is very wise, but Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt an idea of when a technology such as this could be used. biogas is so developed that we no longer need to give support to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125638	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125644	I am convinced that biogas will also be cheaper and cheaper. Most recently there are two large biogas plants under construction in South Jutland without construction grants, and this may show something about the development going in the right direction. It is also the case that, year by year, we reduce the subsidy we give per year. kilowatt-hour for biogas plants. And it is the view of the Left that in the long run biogas must be able to cope on the same terms as other forms of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125711	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125713	It is so comfortable with the long track that it can be very long, but leave it alone. I want to go along with that, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt said about research and development and demonstration facilities, ask him if he also does not agree that part of what we are also going to pay for, if we want to maintain the situation where exports of things from the energy sector are important for Denmark, is that we also have to have a demand in Denmark, i.e. that we also have a national market there, and that it can thus help make the switch to renewable energy a little more expensive than if we chose to say that we did not care about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125753	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125754	I therefore agree that there should be a Danish market. There may be good sense in this too, that we in Denmark can show that we can actually make it work together and that we can get a large amount of renewable energy to ensure that there is still security of supply in Denmark. I agree with that. But, of course, there is the question of the speed of this and the size of that market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125819	Thank you. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125822	Thank you. I remember that when the energy agreement was put on the market, it was the big battle number that it would cost DKK 1,300. for a household, and most would probably like to give that in the year 2020 to get such a sensible green stream. That's how it was sold. I have just taken a look at the annexes to the energy agreement, among others. the financing, and it is true, as has already been said, that the PRS tax has been discussed quite a lot over the last year. Now it's a statement we're talking about. It's a status we're doing. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur, who has a large share in this energy agreement, whether he is satisfied that in 2012 it was not many years since the agreement was made that the PSO tax would be a dominant financing element of 1.4 million. kr. a year in 2020, and looking at 2014, it was 200 million. kr. kr. When you look at the statement here and can see that the total PSO is 7,7 billion. I should like to ask the rapporteur if he is proud of the way in which the whole system of plans underlying this energy agreement has been rolled out and the way in which it has gone? It's a status we're doing. So 200 million. kr. It says in the compromise; now we are on the whole, I say overall, 7.7 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125953	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522125954	Now I do not quite recognize the comparison that the questioner is making here, but the bill has increased. We are not satisfied with this, and that is also why we agreed with the government this summer to make an effort to reduce the total cost of, not least, the PSO by 13 billion. kr. Towards 2020. However, when the rapporteur asks whether I am satisfied with the current level of costs, I have to say 'no' ■ it is too high. That is why we are also concerned to do everything we can to create cheaper solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522130040	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522130052	One plausible explanation for the fact that things are going so wrong that we get into the astronomical figures is probably the fact that we operate in a plan system where you think you can predict price development on technology, on fossil fuels, etc. That's why things are going so wrong. Now I would like to ask the Liberal rapporteur on the Left: will the Left help us in the future, perhaps in a few years' time, to establish a completely different regime in this area, in which we are allowing technology to compete on equal terms rather than according to a planned economic system, to say that we will have so many megawatts, it will cost it to be delivered at that time? It always goes wrong. It always goes wrong, as we see here. Then the Left will be involved in a paradigm shift to a more liberal, market-oriented technology system where we support 1 kg of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150522130138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522130139	Thank you and thank you for the question. In fact, I said this in my rapporteur's speech, also in an earlier question to the SF energy rapporteur, namely that the Left is prepared to look at whether we can find some other mechanisms. The fact that we are at the heart of the Danish Parliament decides how much wind, biomass and biogas etc. I think it would be more sensible to leave the market to a greater extent, even in order to find cheaper solutions than those we have used up to now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522130209	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Anne Sina, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522130219	Thank you. I am standing here on behalf of our energy rapporteur, Jens Joel, who unfortunately could not be here today, so I hope that you will bear with me. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Climate and Energy for his response to the question about Denmark's future energy policy. In a modern society like the Danish one, most citizens take it for granted that there is power to the refrigerator and heat in the radiators, and that is how it should be. Energy is an essential part of our infrastructure, and behind the invisible electricity coming out of the outlet there is a world that requires constant planning, development and investment. We in Denmark have a long tradition of thinking the energy sector as a whole. For 40 years we have invested first in security of supply and in being self-sufficient in energy and now in transforming our energy sources into green and renewable energy. It is a long process that requires us to continue to set long-term and ambitious targets that can put the spotlight on legislation, regulation and investment. At the same time, it must be done in such a way that business has good conditions when it comes to competing with other countries. The Socialists are one hundred percent behind the target of our energy coming from renewable sources by 2050. This is certainly an ambitious objective, but we are already well on the way. An increasing proportion of our energy is produced on renewable energy sources, in fact 39 per cent came. of our electricity in 2014 from wind turbines. That development will certainly continue, not least now that all the pieces around Horns Rev 3 are falling into place, and at a historically low price of 77 cents per year. kilowatt-hour. The purpose of investing in renewable energy is, of course, that we need our power and heat from sources that are free of CO2 The challenge of wind turbine current, solar current and other renewable energy sources is, however, that we only get power when the wind blows or the sun shines. There are two obvious opportunities to meet that challenge. One is that we also invest in storage technology and in other energy sources that can act as backup. The 2015 Finance Act therefore includes, among other things: money for the dissemination of heat pumps in the district heating system, as well as measures to promote the extraction of geothermal energy. The second is that we promote international trade in electricity, so we always have the opportunity to buy ourselves for electricity when the wind is not just blowing at home, but the sun in turn shines in Spain. This must therefore be done under careful planning, which is precisely why the government set up the Committee on Electricity Regulation as part of the Energy Agreement of 2012. They came in December last year with their recommendations on how the future electricity sector can be optimally regulated. These are all examples of how we can ensure that in the future we can also be sure that power comes out of the outlet when we turn it on. The green energy we produce is, of course, part of our ambition to bear our share of responsibility for cutting CO2 It is important that we do everything we can to limit climate change as far as possible so that we can leave a planet for our children and grandchildren that we can be familiar with. But the green energy we produce is also part of an export adventure and an industry that creates jobs in this country. Denmark is an expert in producing energy technology solutions such as: wind turbines and heat pumps, and the whole world is looking for our products, because where renewable energy and energy efficiency improvements have been on the Danish agenda for several decades, in many countries it is completely new and foreign initiatives that they have no experience in planning and managing. Last year Denmark exported 43 billion. kr. Green energy technology. From 2013 to 2014, exports increased by more than 15%, and the year before it increased by more than 17%, and this is at the same time as overall exports have almost not increased at all. There is no indication that the demand for energy technology will disappear anywhere unless it disappears abroad. We risk this easily if we do not continue with investment in the cleantech industry. The golden egg we have here hasn't come from anything. It has arisen because we have worked hard to be the best at what we do. We have invested in green energy, but we have also invested in know-how, in smart minds and in skilled production employees. We have built up a workforce that is experts in this field and that can maintain Denmark's position as a leader in energy technology. Statistics Denmark estimates that there are 58,000 jobs in green goods and services. At the same time, we have reduced a number of taxes and given targeted help to those industries which may face particular challenges due to the green transition and which may therefore have difficulty in maintaining competitiveness. We stress that there must also be a balance between our green ambitions and the conditions of business when competing with other countries. That is the direction in which the Socialists want to continue. We believe that climate, energy security, export and jobs are all part of a political context, but not only do we support the development of green energy solutions and energy-efficient technologies for our own benefit. We are also doing so because we believe it can help make the world a better place to be. That is why we in the European Union are working for an energy union to create a well-functioning internal energy market. This will not only boost the European transition to green energy, which I have already mentioned in connection with the back-up of renewable energy, but will also help the whole of Europe to become more independent of imports of energy from neighbouring countries, not least the Ukraine crisis has shown us the need for a common energy market within the Member States. If we look further, we in the Socialists are looking forward to the United Nations Climate Summit in Paris in December, where we will work towards an ambitious and binding climate agreement setting targets for the reduction of CO2 technology transfer and climate finance. But it is not only in the major international forums, Denmark is actively fighting for a world without fossil fuels. We are also taking part in smaller initiatives which have more concrete objectives on the agenda. Denmark is, for example, Denmark. member of the so-called Friends Group. Here we are working together with a number of other countries such as Switzerland, Norway, Ethiopia and Costa Rica to reduce support for fossil fuels. On a global scale, about five times as much support is given to fossil fuels as is given to renewable energy. It distorts energy prices and slows the spread of green energy and energy-efficient technologies. That is why we are working to phase out subsidies so that we no longer see artificially low prices for fossil fuels. It is all part of our efforts to ensure a greener and better future for our children, our society and for our planet. To sum up, energy policy is not so easy to define. It covers a broad political spectrum such as climate policy, labour market policy, enterprise policy, security policy and foreign policy. The time horizons range from relatively short-term energy agreements to 2020 and to objectives that go beyond 40 years in the future. Geographically, energy policy ranges from local initiatives to the UN summit, where the whole world gathers to find a solution to climate challenges. We Social Democrats believe that Denmark should take the lead as an example of how to set up a highly developed society for clean and green energy and at the same time make money from it. We believe that energy policy is an important means of securing production jobs in this country, and we believe that the successes we have in our luggage must form the basis for the successes of the future, where we continue to plan our energy production closely, while at the same time creating favourable investment and working conditions for a market for renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131024	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131029	Thank you to the rapporteur for his presentation. One of the things that is currently being discussed in the area of energy policy is shale gas. So I would like to hear what the Social Democratic attitude is to shale gas. Is it something to be exploited, or should it stay in the ground? Now I know and it is also stated in the Energy Review that it is not known at this stage how much is available and whether it is profitable, but if we now assume that it is profitable to pick it up and that there is something, what does the Social Democratic Party think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131103	Now I would like to repeat that I am here as a standin for our energy rapporteur, but I would still like to try to make my bid for this to the best of my ability. As far as I am aware, we are in the process of a process in this area of examining it, and some EIA statements and such things need to be made before you go further in this process. So this is an area we must follow closely, and if there are any options in it, then we must go ahead with it if all environmental considerations otherwise allow it. So this is not something we completely reject, but it is not something we just think is super good and go all in on. There are some studies and all sorts of things along the way that need to be done. But now you must not put me on the line because, as I said, I am a standin, and I would urge the questioner to ask our energy rapporteur on another occasion, although the debate must of course also be taken in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131201	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131204	I certainly do not object to Mrs Sina being present in the Chamber either. I was just hoping it was sir. Jens Joel as the Social Democrat rapporteur in this area, who was there and was ready to answer questions. Now I also stick to such more general questions and do not go into the technical ones, so now I'm just asking one more in the same category. Now, like the government, Social Democracy believes that we should phase out fossil fuels after 2035 in the electricity and heat supply and in 2050 in the energy supply at all. Should we then still produce shale gas for export, or should we put a plug in the hole?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131246	I simply do not want to answer this question because I do not feel quite sure. I hope so, sir. Mikkel Dencker respects, because I'd rather not say anything I don't know enough about at the end of the day. I think that's very good style.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131300	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Mikkel Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131324	Thank you. Three years ago, the Danish People's Party chose to join the Energy Agreement, which was concluded at the time between almost all parties of the Danish Parliament. We chose to do so for various reasons. It is not because we share the government's objective of a fossil-free Denmark, because we do not. First of all, we want to have an influence on a political agreement involving huge billions of dollars and affecting all the Danes' economy and the competitiveness of our companies. That is why it was important for us to participate in the agreement. But it was not just to influence the text of the agreement itself. It was certainly also in order to influence the long series of coinage that takes place over the total duration of the agreement for eight years, and not least because the agreement draws in the direction that Denmark will in future also be independent of energy from abroad. This is a very important priority for the Danish People's Party. It is an element that we attach importance to, because we do not want to be in a relationship of dependence with foreign powers. And if you rewind the time about 40 years ago, you can remember how it went when we were dependent on imports of oil from very strangers, you might say, powers. In relation to dependence on imports of energy, the possibility of extracting shale gas is an important option, and this is indeed a subject that has been discussed a great deal in recent weeks and months. In the Danish People's Party we see great prospects in extracting the shale gas, because it will keep Denmark well provided with gas for several decades and at the same time contribute huge amounts to the Treasury. At the same time, I would like to stress that we will, of course, keep a close eye on all environmental considerations, until the environment is taken into account when extracting the shale gas. Another important element of the energy agreement, which we emphasised, is that energy saving is a very important part. For us, this is an important part of energy policy and it is also the easiest way to reduce CO2 It is also an important way to avoid the import of energy. This is a very good parameter at all, because it gives everything else just a more economically efficient society when we have an energy-efficient society. Denmark's competitiveness is strengthened when unnecessary consumption of energy is minimized. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that our business community is not further burdened by the energy policy pursued and thus loses competitiveness vis-à-vis abroad. It will cost jobs. For this reason, we also continue to look with concern at the prospect of a sharp rise in the PRS tax in the years to come, or, if the PRS scheme has to be reversed, at least an increase in the collection of money for the financing of renewable energy. Our call to the government is therefore to take into account the problems that the PRS tax or its replacement will pose for Danish business. In those words, we are grateful for the statement and we are looking forward to the continued debate here today. I would have been happy if we could have had a debate in which some more of the day-to-day energy rapporteurs could have been present. After all, the government parties have chosen to send replacements. It is also a good thing that they are showing respect for it, but we would probably have had a more qualified debate with the right rapporteurs. Finally, I would ask the Minister to take the floor at the end of the debate so that we can also have the opportunity to make brief comments on the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131654	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131659	I can still remember when the energy agreement was concluded, and then the media could get the impression that it was Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who had written it. I understand, sir. Mikkel Dencker, that you have fallen a little from that as far as the Danish People's Party is concerned, and I think that is wise. But what I'm gonna ask, sir. Mikkel Dencker about is, in fact, the matter of shale gas, because I understand that they are the great supporters of the Danish People's Party. I would just like to ask whether there has been any thought in the Danish People's Party about how to solve the problem that will become when more radioactive waste comes in Denmark. So, I know that the Danish People's Party, like us, has been very involved in the debate on the radioactive waste we already have, and it is not so easy to get rid of it. So I assume that Dansk Folkeparti has a plan for it when you want shale gas extraction in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131746	I can confirm to Mr. Per Clausen, that we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of extracting shale gas if there is anything and if it is profitable to do and it can be done environmentally soundly. When you extract that shale gas, of course, waste will also have to be handled in a proper way, and we will see that happen as well. I cannot explain any specific plan for this at this time; I do not think the government itself has such a plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131811	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131813	But is it true that the Danish People's Party believes that before you can start extracting shale gas in such a serious way, you should know where to make of the radioactive waste that comes out of that production?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131829	Of course, I believe that all parties in the Danish Parliament do that waste must be handled properly and securely, regardless of what it comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131844	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522131855	Thank you for that and I am speaking on behalf of our rapporteur, Andreas Steenberg, who could not be here today. The Radical Left believes that a future without coal and oil is worth the price. We have a duty to address the enormous changes in our weather and climate that we are already seeing. Those changes will only get worse in the future if we do not act. We are pleased that there is a broad majority in the Folketing that has made the world's actually most ambitious green transformation of its energy sector, and the Radical Left will also today be thanking for its commitment and cooperation in the Folketing. Denmark earns a lot of money and creates many jobs in the green industry. In 2014, Denmark exported energy technology for approx. 75 billion kr., and that's an increase of just over 10%. in relation to 2013. Green technology and the development of new renewable energy sources cost money, but we in the Radical Left believe that it is worth making that investment. Large companies in Denmark such as Grundfos, Danfoss, Velux and Vestas and other companies had never had the success they have today, if not Denmark had taken the lead on the green agenda. At the same time, we in Denmark have low energy prices compared to other countries, and at the latest this summer we set aside money to ease the energy costs for our industry, because the green transition must go hand in hand with growth and employment in our production industry. We're not gonna rest on our laurels. There are still areas that we need to switch, and the Radical Left is pleased that the government has chosen to continue the tax exemption for electric cars, and money has also been set aside for heat pumps in district heating, because the next step we believe will actually be to get the heat supply and transport on to renewable energy. We will return to that and the government's steps are only the first. The Radical Left looks forward to continued good cooperation on green energy policy and therefore endorses the previously read proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522132051	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522132057	Thank you. Thank you for the presentation to the radical rapporteur too, and although we miss Mr. Andreas Steenberg, I hope that Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen will answer my question. Skifer gas is being discussed a lot these days. What does the Radical Left think about shale gas? Is this something to be exploited to the extent that it is possible and profitable?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522132119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522132121	In the Radical Left we respect the agreements made on the drillings initiated in North Zealand and North Jutland, but we do not want to start any more drillings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522132133	Thank you, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen. Then it is Per Clausen from the Enhedslisten as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522132147	It is sometimes said that there is broad political agreement in Denmark on energy policy, and this is based on broad conciliation on the policy to be followed in practice. I would just like to say that the fact that we are involved in a conciliation in which we have imposed certain constraints on ourselves, in relation to what we can propose and do, while at the same time having some influence on what is then put into practice, does not mean that we agree with everything. I think it would perhaps be very good if we also used some of these discussions to discuss the things on which we do not agree, even though we have temporarily made a peace settlement in practical policy. And since we are now approaching the time when we are going to discuss what is going to happen after 2020, it is reasonable to have that angle too. It should also be the case that the people who have to decide on whom they will vote for in the forthcoming elections not only perceive that there are a grey lot of parties who mean one thing, and that then there are some slightly free-booting types from the Liberal Alliance who mean something quite different, and then the Danish People's Party is kind of on the move. So I think we should try to discuss some of the things on which we may also have a little disagreement. I would like to start by saying that one of the major differences, as I see it, is whether you have the approach to energy policy and the green transition, that it is something you do because it is worthwhile and that you expect it to be richer than if you did not, or if you have the approach to it, that it is actually something you are in favour of, because we have a commitment to hand over some conditions to future generations in relation to climate change, global warming, etc., which correspond to the conditions that we ourselves had when we took over the planet that we really only have to borrow. It is one crucial premise, i.e. whether we are doing this here, because it is important for future generations, for the sake of nature and the environment and the climate, or whether we are doing it because we believe that this is what we can make the most of. The really clever people say that there is no contradiction, and as long as there is no contradiction, there are no problems, no challenges. But when there are contradictions, when there are differences in whether one is doing one thing or another, it is important to have some basic premise, I think. The second question is that we also have a duty to ensure that our development does not block the achievement of social and economic development by poor countries, so that they can have living conditions and life opportunities that are similar to those we have, and that it also places some restrictions on our consumption of land resources on our pollution. It is in this way my starting point and my view that we have that obligation. Here too, of course, it can be said that there is sense in it, because unless you want to spend a great deal of resources bombing ships down in the Mediterranean and spending a great deal of resources guarding borders, it may be very sensible to create good conditions for people to live and unfold where they originally come from and live. So, of course, there may well be an economic rationale to act properly on the basis of moral considerations and some value considerations. However, I think that it is probably very sensible to try to understand where you are on that day, it can be shown that it costs a little bit more to bet on a green conversion than to bet on continuing to use fossil fuels. It is not certain that it will be more expensive. There is much to point out that, in a larger perspective, it may be cheaper, but I still think the discussion is worth taking. This is also where the discussion about shale gas comes in, because some people do not think there is any contradiction between having a green agenda, and then Denmark is extracting fossil fuels, which then have to be burned by other places in the world, because in Denmark they should not be burned off, because there we will be independent of fossil fuels, so there is no contradiction between continuing to make money on it as much as possible, at the same time as you have a green agenda. And then there are some of us who think that there is Then it can be said that with shale gas it is also the case that it is still incredible that you want to start extracting something where you can see that with some certainty you can say that the chemicals you intend to spray into the underground are not individually harmful, but without making any assessment of the cocktail effect, which we are otherwise very concerned about Denmark. We can also initiate, we have the impression, an extraction of shale gas without having taken a position on where to make of the radioactive waste that comes out of it. I understand from the SF that the SF will tighten up the legislation so that we have to take it into account. To put it mildly, that is not reassuring, because there I think the starting point must be that we did. In addition, we are also prepared to carry out the extraction of shale gas, which will result in massive pollution in the local area in terms of noise and emissions of particles, etc. from the very extensive transport that stays in the area. There should be no doubt that Enhedslisten from day one has said no to the extraction of shale gas. We have also done so over the years, and we are glad that the resistance we have has spread. In Aalborg it has even spread in such a way that Dansk Folkeparti in the city council is also opposed to shale gas in at least Aalborg. If it could then spread so that Dansk Folkeparti became opposed to shale gas at least in Denmark, then it wouldn't be so bad even. Then I will go to some of the elements included in the proposal for adoption supported by the Enhedslisten, which are wisely formulated so that it allows some interpretations along the way. After all, there is no doubt for us that when we talk about a flexible and coherent energy system, we are talking about one thing. to ensure that we are able to recover wind energy in the district heating sector through heat pumps. And it is true, as our friends in the government parties and the government keep repeating, that some very good agreements have been made with Enhedslisten that create better conditions for it. They have come, two or three years after we proposed that they should come for the first time, but that is the way it is in politics. On the other hand, the joy is so massive in the government that it can almost make you touched. That's right. But that does not change anything by the fact that we still have a tariff system and a tax system which, to put it bluntly, does not support and support this development. It may well pay off with heat pumps, as the Minister keeps saying that he is not convinced that it cannot, but it is still strange that you have a tax on what you think is a good idea and no tax on what you think is a less good idea. Here I pre-discount and take the premise that the Minister is serious when he says that he thinks that the wind and wind energy and the use of it in the district heating sector is a better idea than to invest very heavily on biomass. It would also be wise to have that view if the Minister would otherwise believe in the statements and reports produced by his own ministry, his own administration. That is precisely why I was so pleased with the debate, and I should like to remind you that this morning an e-mail was ticking in saying that the Left and Conservatives had demanded that the issue of taxes and its analysis be included in this proposal for adoption. I fully agree that it is right, very important, that we should have a look at the tax system we have in order to set it up in such a way that it supports what we would like, rather than going the opposite way. If you saw it too It is strange that you have to travel around, sit over in the dark North Jutland, where I come from, and say no to good Left politicians who want to introduce more solar cells into schools and say: Can't you change that legislation so it's not completely impossible and completely crazy? Then I have to say: no, I cannot, and if I dare to propose it in the Folketing, I am told by the Minister that it is both a breach of conciliation and all sorts of other ugly things, and then I risk being put on wheels and steep. And I'll avoid that. However, I will not fail to say here that it is inconceivable and incomprehensible that the combination of wind and sun, which there is little doubt about, is the best way to solve some of the challenges that we face when we switch to renewable energy, is blocked because we are unable to solve some of the challenges of taxation. I think that's really boring and really annoying. Finally, I would like to say that I also think it is a great challenge for my patience that we should now devote time and energy to changing the PSP system, because the European Union requires that it be changed, when you can even look at what comes from the European Union, that you can really keep it, as long as you call it something else. You can introduce a tax which corresponds exactly to the PRS. Then you call it a tax, and then you spend the money, and then the European Union has nothing against it. If you can give marginal opportunities for some of the money to be spent on investing in renewable energy in Denmark to come abroad, then it can also be done. It is nonsense and a waste of time like so much else that comes from the European Union, but we are helping to do so. We will do our best to find a good solution that, in this case, enough for the vexation of the Liberal Alliance, is as close to the PSP as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133211	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133216	Thank you. That was a fine and long statement. The rapporteur started with such a fundamental discussion that one could have been carried by the desire to make money where one asks whether it is worthwhile or that one could have been carried by the desire for a better world and greater sustainability etc., and then I know that the rapporteur says very strongly that one will have nothing to do with shale gas no matter what; that must be understood correctly. Given that the rapporteur is very concerned about sustainability and the climate debate, it is constantly creeping in that it is for the sake of the climate that much of this is being put into effect, I would like to ask this very specific question: does the rapporteur think that importing wood pellets from the other side of the globe and plugging them into our heating plants is more sustainable than using shale gas, that is, from such a clean climate consideration, which I know is important to the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133328	If you have to be completely honest and you can experiment with that, I think it's hard to answer that question precisely, and that's for two reasons. First of all, we often don't know how much these wood pellets and their production etc. in fact, the climate is straining. Secondly, the same is true with regard to shale gas, because in the case of shale gas extraction a little methane gas is also released into the atmosphere, and that is actually really, really serious. The point is, sir. Villum Christensen is right that neither is a durable solution, and therefore Enhedslisten is so concerned about finding other solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133407	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133410	Thank you. Then I would like to return to another remark from the rapporteur's statement, namely that it might well be that we should do something that was a little more expensive to get the right solutions; I think that is what was said. Does the rapporteur think that it would be a little more expensive if 200 million had been expected? kr. in the PRS tax · which was the price of the Energy Agreement in 2014, that is what the agreement says, and I read that before · and we today have a total PRS tax of over 7 billion. kr.? In the rapporteur's view, is this a little more expensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133502	Now it is the case that the PRS is not called a tax, but something else was invented, because you had to make sure that there was money for investment in new energy plants, and that is what is happening now. So when Mr. Villum Christensen is trying to get all this with the PSP to be about that we could just choose to invest in, for example. Coal and no, no, sir. Villum Christensen has never said anything, he is only suggesting it, and it is very wise, because then maybe nonsense becomes less obvious.I just have to say that the point is that, whether you choose to invest in coal or in renewable energy, you have had to have the PRS to get the funds for it, and therefore it is really much more complicated to figure out what it costs or does not cost to switch to renewable energy. The right calculations will have to be long-term, we can only do them in a few years' time, and then we can see which one of us gets the most right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133559	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522133605	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for his statement, although it was some time ago. I actually thought that when you were going to make a stocktaking or an account of some sort of course we're going to have to do with such an 8-year period you asked yourself: we had these goals, it was going to cost so much, and we had to deliver them and the services at those and those times, so how did it go? What has happened to the financing, the security of supply tax, the PRS, about which we have talked a great deal? What has happened to the price trends for coal, oil and gas? How'd it go with the solar cells? How many have we got up and what has it cost compared to what we thought in March? And you could go on like that. So, my point of view is that I thought that when you did a status, you did it in relation to the objectives you had set up so that you could think about whether you were inside the dial or outside the dial. This is certainly known from other contexts. Let it be, but it may then be a piece of advice for those who will have to formulate these statements next time. I can see that there is a lot about us working with Ukraine, and I do not know what. But we find it difficult to see whether or not we have succeeded in achieving the objectives set very precisely. I think we can make that clear. So it's gonna be kind of a shining picture we're going to discuss here. It does not change the fact that it is an important discussion to have and that what several people have also mentioned is important that we have once a year looked at how this very big project is progressing and also have a look at what are some obvious dilemmas we face in this area. For many different reasons, we would like to have a little more electricity into our energy system... that has also been said sometimes... but the charges prevent or counter-work at least this relationship; that was also mentioned by Enhedslisten. Normally, you tax something you want less of, and not something you want more of. This is an obvious dilemma, and what do you do with it? I would have liked to have been looked at a little more. This means, for example, that the necessary heat pumps to balance the wind energy in the heating system will be very difficult. After all, billions of investments in biomass are being speeded up here, which we have chosen to define as sustainable and thus to provide a tax exemption. It's taxes and subsidies that control this whole system. In addition, our lucrative subsidy system for wind means that we get so many wind turbines set up that we are not able to use the energy when it blows. It's really bad grocery stuff that I mentioned before. Well, the value is just over 2 billion. kr., while the total PSO charges are well over 7 billion. kr. The statement here also says that it is a few hours that we pay to get rid of energy. Nevertheless, it could also be pointed out that in 20%. In fact, we will have a price below the market price of the production time. This is therefore a product which we first subsidise with billions and which we will then have to sell below the market price in 20%. of cases. And the Minister's answer to that is that we need four times as much of that. I am sorry to say this, but that bill only gets bigger year after year as we set up wind turbines. We are now up to 7.4 billion. kr., and it goes without saying that the more wind farms come up, the greater the likelihood that the PRS tax will have to grow • since you must always fill the gap between the market price and what you have promised those who set up the wind turbines. The tragic thing here is that when our competitors abroad get cheaper power, for the same reason we will get more expensive power. So it can almost be said that consumers are being run over twice, only by getting a fire tax and then by getting additional taxes when things are going well in the other countries, because then the electricity price drops, and then the gap that has to be filled will be even greater. From our point of view, it kind of reminds us of self-torment at least when you say that you want a lot more of this before the technologies are mature. We can easily understand the need to help a technology on the way, that is, feed a baby, but to feed an adult in thirty years nothing good comes of. We are concerned about these investments, which are not going to make sense in the long term, because the market can change. Nobody knows how prices develop in this sector. After all, we have seen more than anyone else and no one knows how technology develops. So it can be said that we are, like, committing ourselves to a ten to fifteen-year lease, while we risk seeing how other technologies, which we perhaps did not know in 2012, when the energy settlement was knitted together, are now becoming much, much cheaper than we had the imagination to imagine. That is at the heart of this discussion: that we should sit in here and think that we know what is good to do 8 years later. It is and remains an absurdity. We also saw it with the solar cells, where already after 1 year we had some huge surprises that drained the box of almost 1 billion. kr. I guess we've changed the law three or four times when we come limping behind the development of technology. It is again a symptom of the same thing, namely that we believe that we can predict a development that we will never be able to predict in here. But we're so smart in here in the Folketing. We think that we should work for a more technology-neutral support structure so that it becomes smaller, that is, at a lower level, and becomes fairer. I still think that supporting in the very long term can only backfire it has all historical experience shown that we must change the regime. Instead of those very linear considerations for many, many decades to come, we need a system that is more sensitive to the movements taking place in the market. So let us turn down the expensive ambitions. After all, we are not living on a desert island, and it is therefore pointless to force a development as much as I can hear that the government will continue to do when it becomes at the expense of consumers' electricity bills. They have the clear evidence, every month they look at it, or how often they look at it now. By the way, the electricity bill turns the heavy end down, so it is in many ways a bad place to tax the citizens, just as companies of course check out and take both employment and CO2 How wise is that? Yes, we can import the energy-intensive goods afterwards, after which it goes beyond the climate accounting in China, while we can bask as a little • excuse the term "mad green idealists" here at home. I wonder if global warming is going to happen again: global 2 It is probably more important what is happening overall. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have chosen to formulate an alternative proposal for adoption, and I would like to read this out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the energy policy statement and invites the government to address the energy policy challenges associated with the extensive system of subsidies and levies, thus ensuring no security for the development of the most efficient energy solutions, and thereby risking significant misinvestments, which are opposed to a competitive composition of the energy supply. The chosen subsidy and tax regime is not seen to be suitable for capturing the rapid changes in technology development and pricing in the market, which means that we in Denmark will be committed to certain technologies for many years to come and with unnecessary additional costs when the market changes. The Danish Parliament attaches importance to working towards a transparent and technology-neutral support structure so that real competition can be achieved in the area of ensuring the cheapest possible energy for citizens and business. V 58).
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134508	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134514	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Villum Christensen. I understand, sir. Mr. Villum Christensen's long consideration of inappropriate tax and subsidy structure makes Mr. Villum Christensen agrees with what I have proposed along with most other parties here. It simply says that the current tax and subsidy structure is inappropriate, so it is an open door, because we agree with that. This was something we agreed on as early as 2012, when we concluded the energy agreement. My question is this: Villum Christensen says that you should not commit to a lease for 8-10 years. I can understand that, of course, it sounds right, but why is it then that Mr. Villum Christensen's alternative would bind us for 30-40 years to invest in what is perhaps today the most inexpensive, for example. A new coal-fired power station, for which we are committed for 30-40 years, with the risk of having to pay CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134623	I'm sorry about that. Steen Gade shoots me in the shoes that I'm gonna tie some money in a coal power plant. Firstly, I have never said anything about this, and secondly, it is not the state that is building coal power plants. What's my point is that we don't have to say in here what we think is good in 15 and 20 years. No, we need to find a price which we think is reasonable at a ton of CO2 to the private producers themselves, to find out for themselves what kind of energy supply they think can be delivered under the conditions and conditions that we set in here. It is a certification system which is well known both in Sweden and Norway and which is far, far more sensible than this very planned economic prerequisite, which we can look at all the elements has gone, on all the elements, and we are not talking about how it has gone by 10%. or 20%, as a budget sometimes does. That's a lot, hundreds of percent. So I have to say that it is a capitulation, that is, the thinking behind the energy settlement, that you think you know what is good when you can see the solar scandal already within a year with 1 billion. kr. Out of the box. It's somehow a proof that we have to get away from this regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134746	Sir. Steen Gade for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134748	After all, it is a misunderstanding that it is the state that builds solar installations, and it is the state that builds wind turbines. It is, of course, private, and we are strongly in favour of it being they who spend the money. Then I understand that it is Sweden that we have to look into. Now I have the pleasure, hopefully, of driving up through Sweden, and there I can see that this leads to a lot of wind expansion, a huge wind expansion in Sweden. Sweden is very soon the minister may know whether they are already a larger producer of wind energy than Denmark. So I really do not know what the criticism is. That is what you do in Sweden and it becomes wind energy in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134831	Should I understand the question so that because Mr. Steen Gade has seen some windmills on his way up through Sweden, so one cannot relate to a completely different system of subsidies and levies, namely a system that is tied up on how much CO2 I also heard that Mr. Steen Gade was gonna shoot me in the shoes, that the state's putting up solar cells, they're gonna put up solar cells on military buildings, that's not it, and that's not private. Of course, it is private people who put solar cells up on their roofs far along the way, but it is for the sake of apologies for the term "we" in here who tell us how much we want to give in that framework, now it is the tax exemption that is at issue here, but it is we in here who decide the framework and how much we want each year, and that is the plan system. So it ends up with the same problem that I started by mentioning, namely that the whole system here breaks down because we have to think linearly and predict something in eight years' time that we are completely unable to say anything about. We've got all the evidence for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134944	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522134957	I think it is a good thing that we have now come to that point that Mr. Villum Christensen agrees with the rest of us that long-term investments are being made. And I kind of think that, uh... Villum Christensen is right, then, that if we are to look back on our energy agreement, it was then marked by a misunderstanding in relation to the potential of solar energy. Then, of course, I can say that I said it all the time, so they should have just listened to me, but it might take too long to wait for it. I'm just gonna ask sir. Villum Christensen, about the experience with the system they have in Sweden and Norway, is that it is cheaper. I'd like to know. Do you get more renewable energy for less money using the Swedish and Norwegian systems, because then it is interesting to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135028	I am not in a position to say that you get more for the same money. All I know is that one has to make some more natural market considerations rather than blindly saying: I am doing this now because I know that I can score the box for the next 8 years, no matter how the market develops. That is how we have built it up, and if the market develops favourably, we will let the citizens pay the bill. It is really lucrative to be a wind turbine manufacturer and to be the one who sets up the wind turbines. I don't know a lot of companies that produce dips that know in advance that in that and that year they can sell so much, and in that and that year they can get it and that price. That is a form of planned economy, and that is exactly why things always go wrong. The Russian five-year plans went wrong and I said five-year plans how was a Danish energy plan for 8 years going in the opposite direction? It suffers from the same defects. We cannot foresee the development of technology and we cannot foresee the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135139	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135142	Five-year plans they have a slightly different view of in Singapore and in a number of other very fast-moving economies than Mr. Villum Christensen has, but leave it alone. I'm just gonna ask sir. Villum Christensen: Does Mr. Is it not essential that the method used leads to the best possible use of what you want for the least possible money? Surely it cannot be an ideological question that Mr. Villum Christensen does not like planned economy and that I do not like the word markets, and then we choose what we like best. Sir. Like me, Villum Christensen must be interested in how to get as much renewable energy as possible cheaply as possible. And if you do it with the Norwegian and Swedish models then complete peace with me • no problems. But if it's all just based on sir... Villum Christensen's ideological notion that it sounds better when you say the market than plan, maybe it's not that exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135230	Now I'm hearing Mr. Knox. Per Clausen use the words as much renewable energy as possible. Then we are a little in at the core, because here we are saying that we should have so much of it at that and that time, and that it must cost it and that. I say, of course, that what is crucial is if we have a climate objective to reduce CO2 I know that Enhedslisten himself has ironed a lot about how, right up to the final negotiations, agriculture made biogas really attractive. I'm pretty sure we can agree on that. And this is a form of horse-trading, which must be taken into account other than what is essential, namely to have a cheap and secure energy supply, which I think is much more important, rather than having to take care of all sorts of other political interests. That's what you get to. You're friends with some people, and others you're in a fight with, and then it's the friends who need to have some. That is the premise when we choose the kind of planning that we have now chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135339	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135353	Thank you. Well, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate. I think this is a good debate. It is important that we can discuss Danish energy policy across all parties and preferably in a factual and constructive manner. Some interesting considerations come up, not least, of course, when the Liberal Alliance comes into play, since they have views that go further than the energy agreement, by the way. I would, of course, like to say to Mr. Mikkel Dencker, that of course I would like to go on the field and turn myself into a target for short remarks. I am sensitive to the wish of the rapporteurs from several different parties that this tax and subsidy analysis should come soon, because of course it is a necessary basis for us to be able to adjust further to our system. And it can be said that we are always in the process of fine-tuning our system. We have come a long way with our green transition, but we are constantly influenced by things that happen from the outside, or technological development or anything else, so that is why we have good, close cooperation to constantly adjust the system. Among other things, it has to be done. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is on the basis of a tax and subsidy analysis that we already agreed in the energy conciliation circle when we concluded the energy conciliation and which, unfortunately, has not yet been completed. I do not have the final timetable, and I cannot tell you today when it will come. But it is, of course, a piece of work which I take very seriously, since I share the rapporteur's wish to get it on the ground quickly, because it can serve as a starting point for the future decisions we have to take. One of the reasons why we want the tax and subsidy analysis is, of course, that we need to look at how the charges relate to each other, not least in terms of using and recovering wind in the heating sector. There were comments that it was not worthwhile under the current conditions. I have to say that in some cases, no doubt for a significant part of the heating sector too, we have just not yet introduced the large heat pumps into district heating. That is why we have set aside a pool of money for demonstration projects, together with the government, along with the Enhedslisten and SF, which I am sure will open that door wide open, so that we really can connect our wind turbines and our district heating. All of this just as an example of how we still have unspoken adjustments to this, because we have a common goal in mind, which is that we should be CO2 I know that the Danish People's Party today rejects that goal, but that has always been the prerequisite for the government, and that has also been part of the ambition for among others. Left. And I know that SF and Enhedslisten also share that goal. It is clear that I also agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Lars Christian Lilleholt when he talks about making the conversion as cheap as possible. It is clear that we have given the task ahead of us and there is no reason to make it more expensive than that. I also quite agree with Mr Seligman. Per Mrs Clausen in that one has to recognise that the green conversion can have a price. It is not because it has to cost us anything if we can do it in such a way that it is a profit business that I would like to do for me but even if it should have a price, I am personally in the government also prepared to accommodate it. That is also what lies in our energy reconciliation where we have said that we have a necessary transformation for the sake of the world. We are embarking on this, knowing that it may involve a cost, but along the way we are of course trying to do what we can, partly to make it cheap and partly to draw all the benefits from the green transition we can now, in the form of a large and strong Danish export. In my summary, I would just like to say that I can still hear that in this way we are discussing the necessary adjustments and are broadly in agreement on the general direction. I must also say, and that applies to Mr. Villum Christensen, who stands a little outside and criticises the whole thing that we are on the right track. It is true that there are changed economic conditions in relation to when we entered into the energy agreement. However, in relation to the effects we agreed on, that is, the amount of wind flow, biomass and biogas, etc., we should have in, that is, the measures we wanted to take to counter Denmark's CO2 We set ourselves a task under some open conditions, where some of the economy has changed, primarily because of changing energy prices, but where we are on the right track with the effects we set ourselves for, which is ultimately what matters to the climate. I think we are also in Danish energy policy, where this debate actually reveals that, despite our disagreements, we also have plenty to talk about and cooperation to work on. We must, of course, do this in the future too. So I would like to thank you for the debate and make myself available for brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135827	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker as the first one asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135832	Well, thank you to the Minister for taking the floor again so that we can make brief comments. Before I came to the debate today, I had gone through the past while wondering about various statements by both the government and the government parties about the attitude to shale gas. I have not been wiser today because the Social Democrat rapporteur said yes to using shale gas, if you can. It was not an enthusiastic yes, but it was a yes. The Radical rapporteur felt that no more holes should be drilled than had already been drilled. I take that mostly as a form of a 'no' to further exploitation of shale gas. So my question is: what does the government think about the use of shale gas if it is profitable and environmentally feasible?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522135927	After all, I am prepared to comply with the permits which have been granted by the previous government two permits for Total for the search and extraction of shale gas. I'm in the mood to honor, it's the government's mind to honor. And I would say that if Total finds shale gas in North Jutland, they can not only note that it is there, they can also extract it. The government has said that until we know the details of shale gas extraction, we do not want to grant any more permits. Radicals have gone one step further and have said that we really do not have to wait any longer. We do not want to grant any more permits from a radical point of view. So the government's position is that we wait and see for now. The radical view is that we do not want to grant any more permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140011	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140016	I am not really surprised that the government will abide by the agreements reached. It is usually the same. But it still puzzles me that the Social Democratic Party has a different attitude, the Radical Left has a different attitude, and then the government has a third position and perhaps a combination of the two. So we cannot get an answer from the government as to whether one should have gas in the underground for several decades, perhaps centuries of Danish consumption, which could be exploited commercially, and this could happen in a proper way environmentally want to make use of the enormous resources. Are we really so rich in Denmark that we can leave such great values underground?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140058	Thank you. The government has an ambition that we will be free from using CO2 This is true whether it is based on coal or on shale or other. That ambition, of course, also applies to the slate, so to the question of whether we are so rich that we can avoid it, I would say that we have actually said that we do not want to base ourselves on fossil energy sources in the future. We believe that there are good alternatives in terms of wind turbines, biomass, energy efficiency and other things that are well known in that debate too. That is what we want to base our future energy supply on, and it is actually a very good flight with the reply from Mr. Per Clausen before that, even if there is an additional price, we believe that we have a responsibility not to deduce CO2 So that is exactly how the fence posts stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140152	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140155	In this matter, I agree with the Radical Left, and it is always a pleasure to be. One might then wish that this was one of the areas where the Radical Left had a dominant influence in the government, but it is as if it is always unevenly distributed to the wrong side. But I have one question for the Minister, and that is in relation to what the statement says. It says that when the total result from drilling one in North Jutland is located, an evaluation must be carried out. Now you could choose to understand that now there is one borehole, and that is the one that is up at Dybvad, and when the result of it is available, it is decided whether there should be more. But isn't the reality that a permit has been given to Total, which means that they can drill all the holes they want in all North Jutland or in that part of North Jutland, that is Vendsyssel and Himmerland, that are devoted to this, and that, when they gave this permission, they had decided to make Nordjylland such an experimentarium for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140251	I can deny that it has been desired to make North Jutland an experiment, but I can confirm that Total has an investigation permit which will routinely trigger an extraction permit in North Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140303	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140305	So let's not call it an experiment, but it's still a little exciting that the Danish Energy Agency gives this permit for extraction without deciding where to do with the radioactive waste that will be a consequence of it, without deciding what the environmental consequences of pumping chemicals into the underground are. Yes, it is actually accepted that EIA studies are being carried out where it is not clearly said that you only relate to the substances one at a time. So on this basis, you give this permission. I don't know what the minister calls it when he doesn't call it an experiment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140350	It is clear that the authorisation granted is about searching and extracting. It is not a permit to pig, and having such a permit does not release anyone from the general rules that surround all activity in Denmark. Of course, it is also my absolute expectation that the company can do this without causing any damage to our environment. They shall be subject to unlimited liability for such damage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140417	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140423	The Minister spoke briefly about the grant and tax analysis or the tax analysis. I have to say, I'm very puzzled about it. We've been promised that not in 2012, but it was part of the energy agreement in 2012 that we should have that analysis. The Minister then says today that he then agrees that we should have it as soon as possible. Minister, we were also promised that it would be here during the spring and we were promised the last autumn too. Will it be before a parliamentary election that we get that analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140456	As far as I am concerned, I can only agree with Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt and the conciliation circle, who have made an energy settlement that includes this because you know that there is good reason to look at it. I think this should happen as soon as possible. I cannot lift the veil of the timetable today, as it is simply not in place when it comes. But I have every ambition to speed it up as quickly as possible. I think it is important and crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140522	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140526	Does the Minister think that this is a satisfactory way of working with his partners in an energy agreement that we continue to wait for the promised analysis? This isn't a random analysis. It is a question of how we combine the entire tax and subsidy system in our Danish energy policy, and that is the whole basis for how we can continue and provide the economy for the whole green transition. Is this satisfactory to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140553	The Minister for Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140556	Thank you. No, I think it's high time we had that analysis. I think it's been enough time. I haven't finished it yet. I am working on this on the basis of exactly the same intentions and motivations as Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt explains. We simply need it. I can only regret the fact that it is not already there and that I cannot now lift the veil on the timetable, but I can then assure you that I am spending a lot of time trying to get it out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140629	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140632	Thank you. I'd like to stay on the same street. I think we all agree that if there is something that governs this area, then it is taxes. It is absolutely crucial whether you do one thing or the other, how they are. In other words, we have chosen to say: we have objectives, we are rolling them out, it is a project of 100 billion. kr. or something similar and we can see that there are a lot of things that work against each other, and then we decide to do an analysis. I mean, the analysis itself doesn't solve a problem. And as Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt mentioned, it cannot possibly be good business conduct. I can also ask this question: is the Minister proud that the crucial element of energy policy and its ability to be rolled out, as one now wants, is one waiting for the yes, it was decided in 2012, and then I do not know when the button was pressed and started collecting numbers together, but now we are going on summer holidays here in 2015? Is the Minister satisfied with that? There was a minister who said that it is Dad here who is responsible! I remember, yes, I suppose the minister is a father in some way and is probably the boss. Would you like to know, and that's my question, that this analysis will show that it's completely impossible to change this grant somewhere without having two problems somewhere else? I have often called it that there are no problems, a tax dump; so there may be a political interest in having it postponed and at least pushed out on the other side of the election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140808	Thank you. As far as the first half of the question is concerned, I would like to refer to my reply to Mr Seligman's question. Lars Christian Lilleholt. As far as the other half is concerned, there is no doubt in my mind that it is all connected. It is true that no matter where you tamper with the tax and subsidy analysis, it has consequences elsewhere. So it is quite true that it is a large coherent system that we have, and that is also why we need an analysis in which we take a step backwards and see it all at once, instead of tampering with one or the other charge. The fact that it is any wish to postpone a decision is simply conspiracy thinking, and what I have of intentions is merely to provide a satisfactory basis for discussion for the conciliation circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140853	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522140855	Let us put the conspiracy theories away and take something superconcret like what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. I wonder, when you take stock and you have some objectives, that we do not somehow get a table presented, or what do I know about how far we have come with the various things. I would very much like to ask the Minister that. Is it the case that the Minister will work to ensure that it is so and now, of course, I do not know whether the Minister will be a minister in one year's time? can see what the energy agreement costs, compared to what we thought it cost? I still remember the 1,300 kroner. for a household, already after 1 year it would cost 1,300 DKK, it should happen by 2020, and then it has only gone one way since. Does the Minister not think that it is reasonable to have a place in such a statement where one can see whether the economy one was expecting corresponds to the economy which has proved to be practical? An entirely common status as we know it in all sorts of reports. Will the Minister recommend his officials to make the report that way next time? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522141007	Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building for Completion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522141010	Thank you. I'd like to help, sir. Villum Christensen gets the numbers he's looking for. Of course I'd like that. I can say that it is not, of course, because the individual components of the energy agreement have become more expensive; it has not become more expensive per year. kilowatt-time power to buy the mills, if you may say so. It is the link with the market price that makes there are large shifts. This also means, as far as people's electricity bill is concerned, that there will be a very high discovery that there is a falling electricity price that compensates for the rising PSO. So you also have to look at the cost of energy for the individual, when you do this accounting, instead of choosing an angle and then focus narrowly on it, namely that the PSP is the place. But in this way there is a very comprehensive complex in this which I would like to debate, but which means that there are other things to be taken into account than that, Mr President. Villum Christensen highlights.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522141058	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the two proposals for adoption will take place, as I said, only on Tuesday 26 May 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150522141123	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 26 May 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
