ParlaMint-DK_20151217100018	The meeting is open. I have the following announcement: From a temporary member of the Folketing, Rasmus Helveg Petersen, I have received notification that from 1 January 2016 he does not wish to continue as a deputy during the parliamentary term of Zenia Stampe's leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100052	Following the announcement by the First Deputy of the Radical Left, Rasmus Helveg Petersen, as mentioned, that he does not wish to continue as a deputy during Zenia Stampe's leave, I have received from the Committee on the Verification of Credentials the recommendation that the Second Deputy of the Radical Left in the Sjællands Storkreds, Emrah Tuncer, be approved as a temporary member as from 1 January 2016. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100120	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 110 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100150	The debate is open and the first to speak is the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr President. Ole Birk Olsen, Liberal Alliance, for an oral recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100209	I should just like to inform you that, following the votes of 16 December on the amendments tabled to the draft financial regulation for 2015, the Financial Committee held a meeting in which the results of the votes were technically reviewed. I can then inform you, on behalf of a unanimous committee, that this examination has not given rise to any comments or that further amendments have been tabled. This means that the draft budget is being proposed for further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100246	Thank you. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100310	The vote may be taken and the final adoption of the legislative proposal shall be taken. Here you go. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 6 (SF and IA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100348	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate on the amendment and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100432	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Finance. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100451	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100458	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 36 (S and IA). The bill has been passed and will then be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100531	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100609	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 by the Minister for Finance, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100623	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100632	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 36 (S, RV and IA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100703	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100735	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour of 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal was adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100807	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100832	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 1 (IA). The bill passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100904	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100920	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. In favour of 100 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstention 1 (IA). The proposal has been adopted and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217100946	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101012	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 1 (IA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101042	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101115	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 22 (DF), abstained 1 (IA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101143	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101207	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. in writing. - 99 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV and KF) voted against 10 (ALT and SF), abstained 1 (IA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101233	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101253	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 1 (IA). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101319	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101341	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 1 (IA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101410	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101434	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101513	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101539	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101603	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (S, ALT and SF). A vote can be taken. The vote is over. in writing. - 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained on 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the bill should then go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101653	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101721	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. Next, we shall vote on Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 5 (SF and IA). The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 3 and joined by the same minority, lapsed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 5 (SF and IA). The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101910	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. And since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217101936	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2, to be elected by It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If there are no objections, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102021	Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102038	Thank you very much. When I take the floor, this is because we have done something very rarely from a radical point of view. We have tabled an amendment outside the report. This is because we are dealing here with the so-called 'legal certainty package' package and package has so much to say, because it has been leaked out well, so there is only one proposal left, that is to say, whether the SKAT should be allowed to carry out checks in private gardens. It has, of course, been the subject of a very heated debate here in the Folketing, because it is a difficult issue. On the one hand, we have the citizen's legal certainty • the inviolability of private property, which is of course constitutionally guaranteed and the fact that the citizen must be allowed to be in his garden in peace, and on the other hand we have regard for our common legal certainty, one can say that SKAT has the powers that they need to have in order to be able to get rid of undeclared work. And we must remember that it is not the citizens who are being controlled here. It is actually companies that are controlled if they are there. We have had thorough and long discussions on this in the radical group, and we have found ourselves, we think, a really good compromise, namely to say that there is a small limit to when control is to be exercised in private gardens. In fact, there is already such a small limit in the draft law, as it says about signage. Thus, when you have major construction work, you have to sign it, who is doing work for a job for more than DKK 50,000, that is, by larger construction work, there is a requirement for signage. So our simple suggestion is that you do the same with regard to control in private gardens: if you have a larger building for over 50,000 DKK. and so on, for example. has not been divorced, as the law now commands, SKAT also has the opportunity to go in and check, whereas SKAT does not have the option for all small construction works and things and things that take place in private gardens. In fact, we think this is a good radical compromise. And we are also thinking that it must be right to the right of the Danish People's Party, which has also been a little divided by this bill. On the one hand, they want to give the Community the means of control that it takes and, on the other hand, they are a little caught up in an agreement they have had with the government. So I very much hope for a majority in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102300	The rapporteur has to stay on the floor, because there is a brief comment from Mr Beazley. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102305	Thank you. And first of all I would like to thank the Radicals for making a compromise proposal. Because it is true that legal certainty for the Danes is extremely important and that a court order is required before entering private property. At the same time, however, there may be something in relation to the pace, i.e. how quickly the SKAT can get a permit, and there is just something that I cannot fully understand in the Radical proposals. It is agreed that it is important for citizens to have legal certainty unless it is more than a certain amount. So, if this is an amount of more than DKK 50,000, then the Danes should not have legal certainty, but if it is an amount of less than DKK 50,000, then they must have legal certainty. Does the radical rapporteur not find it rather odd that legal certainty should be improved in this way? It is a little more important, after all, that this is a principle in which we ask whether anyone should be allowed to have their private property in peace. But apparently you don't have to do that if it's over 50,000 kroner. So, I think it is a little strange that this is the compromise that has been reached, but thank you for the attempt.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102404	Fourth Vice-President try again). This is typically harassment of the Radicals, no, just joking. In fact, I think it is a perfectly natural compromise. It follows from the draft law that a distinction is already made between major construction projects of more than DKK 50,000. and lower, e.g. also in relation to the requirement for signage. And now we have to be careful, because this is, you might say, a power of control, and that is something other than a court order. A warrant is used to investigate, and when, according to the criminal code, the police have a legitimate suspicion that a citizen has committed something criminal, but it is something else when SKAT has to carry out a check, and it is not the citizen who has to be subject to control. So it is the company that does the black work or does not do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102501	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102503	But what it ends up with is that it is the people's cause that is being discussed, and there is also a violation of their privacy, which is, of course, protected by Article 72 of the Constitution. And I think there is a huge difference here, because it is compared to the fact that there are some rules on signage on private property where someone has to sign if they have a contract of over 50,000 kroner. Then you can just say that SKAT must go in if there is a value of more than DKK 50,000, and there is therefore a huge difference between the two measures. One is that a sign must be put up stating that there is a job, and the other is that you can just walk into a private property unhindered by Article 72 of the Constitution. So I think it's a little bad comparison to link the two things together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102541	I could turn it around and ask what happens if the SKAT gets out to a place where, for example, there is. a larger roof renovation, a replacement of a roof, and you can see that there are a lot of people running around, and there is no signage, as the law requires there to be. It seems to me that there is a legitimate suspicion that something is going on that should not happen, and I think it is a little strange that SKAT cannot go in and ask the company in question why they have not set up the sign. They can't do that now. It can be done if you finally have to take it from another country 20 black workers, and then they can just stand out on the street and see that there has been no sign without the possibility of exercising control. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102620	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102628	I'm also wondering about this signage. Most of us believe that this is either a breach of the inviolability of the dwelling, of private property, or that it is not. I would therefore like to hear: since the Radicals are proposing that we should not be allowed to go into private property without a court order, when it comes to building work of less than DKK 50,000, what is the reason why we think this is an infringement of private property rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102652	Well, it is, as I said, because I think that in fact all the members of the Things are of the opinion that we are in such a difficult balance between the consideration of the individual and the consideration of the community. We really think it makes sense to say that when you already have a small limit in the legislative proposal, it is in the logic of the legislative proposal that you can say that you are doing it. Well, we are where we think: if there is a major building work, and if there is a command to put a sign, and people do not put that sign, then it is also a little strange that you should not go in to check why they have not done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102728	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102729	So that means that private property does not actually mean so much to the Radicals. The possibility of monitoring by SKAT is given greater weight than the right to the inviolability of the dwelling.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102743	You can swing into a very high idealistic tree in this case. When we propose to introduce it here, it's precisely because we think that when it comes to small construction work, where people sloppy around the garden, there might be a single person, then it doesn't make sense. There we think that legal certainty for the individual and the citizen weighs more. But when we are talking about major construction works, where we already impose restrictions, we are demanding different things and things, I think it is a little strange if we cannot then control it by the SKATs too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102812	Thank you. And there's one more brief comment, sir. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102817	I would just like to follow up on what Mrs Louise Schack Elholm is asking. I guess you can't say that there has to be a little balance in it and that you have to look at some different considerations. Either you have legal certainty on your private property, as Paragraph 72 of the Constitution says, or you do not. I guess you can't be a little pregnant about that. That is why I am a little surprised by the radical rapporteur, who believes that there can be a compromise between protecting and not protecting, and that we can lay down in between. I think the radical rapporteur should perhaps clarify that a little. I can see the comparison you are trying to make, but I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it is a comparison between two very different things, whether you have to put up a sign at the entrance or whether you as a private citizen have to put up with being violated by an authority that penetrates on your own ground without having a warrant in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102906	Now I don't know what that about pregnant women referred to... I'm not gonna tell you who got patted on his head. But I don't think it's that hard. I do not think it is so difficult to see that it is sensible to strike a balance here between the individual's, the individual's, the sense of justice and the community. If you have a legitimate suspicion that there has been a breach of the Community's sense of justice, for example. that black work is actually being done, what we think is a huge problem and a very serious matter which we must take action against, and if there is a command that there should be a sign out there and there is no sign, then we do not think it is so strange and perhaps not a huge breach of the constitution, if the SKAT then has the opportunity to ask the company in question, which has not set up the sign, why they have not done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217102959	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103001	Now let's try to test it more practically. How can one, as an authority, know whether this work that takes place inside the property costs more than or less than 50,000 kroner??
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103012	Yeah, we can do that in the same way that you can check whether there's a badge or not. It is of course an estimate, but that estimate is quite natural in the provisions of the law in advance, because there you have set the de minimis limit that works more than DKK 50,000. there are some requirements and for work under 50,000 DKK. there are some other requirements. So that estimate has to be made by SKAT in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103029	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103035	Well, I just want to congratulate Radicals for being less dogmatic than they could be, and instead try to take the best from two worlds. And I just want to suggest that you look at this amendment in a way that is not a question of private property being violated. In the alternative, we have had a great deal of doubt as to what we should vote for the legislative proposal itself, but we have had no doubt that we should accept this amendment because for once in this Parliament there is something that is trying to soften it up a bit. We cannot put anyone in the booth here, but we say that it may well be that we really want private property not to be violated, but imagine if we could think more rationally and say that we can find some sort of solution that is not so black and white. That is why I would just like to suggest that we consider: is it not just an amendment that takes the best of two worlds a little bit? That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103128	I can confirm that. I very much agree with that, and I thank you very much for the comments made by Mr Seligman. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103135	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Another rapporteur has asked for the floor, and that is Mr Seligman. Jep Bruus, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103143	Thank you. We have spent quite a lot of time discussing this bill, because it was the first bill from the government and the tax minister in the so-called legal certainty package, which is now all about cutting back SKAT's ability to control professional construction on private property. What we are talking about is that when there is construction and there is doubt whether or not it is paid by bill, i.e. whether it is a piece of work, SKAT must of course have the opportunity to go in and check it. And some of the organizations, among others. Danish Construction and others who were skeptical about it when we introduced this option have realized that it actually has an effect. It actually helps to limit undeclared work, which is why they are also opposed to this bill. We have then spent some time in the Tax Committee to clarify whether we could find alternatives. I would like to thank everyone from the Committee on Taxation, including those who are now voting in favour of this bill, for taking an active part in this work. But I also have to say that we were also trying to get the tax minister to play along, and that has not happened to a satisfactory extent. That is why I am speaking now. That is why we also regretted, when we had to declare whether we were ready to submit a report, that we were not. We would have liked that to be better. However, I must also note that with what the Danish People's Party is repeating today, the Danish People's Party is helping the government to hinder the control of undeclared work by SKAT. And that's what we've seen. These are a lot of fine promises and words during the election campaign, but when we come to the practical work of Parliament's committee and we are about to vote in the Assembly Hall, yes, then the Danish People's Party joins with the government in backing up SKAT's control. And that's just the way it is, but I'd like to apologize for that. With regard to the radical amendment, I also think it is good to try to play a constructive role. We support it, although we must also say that it is not without problems, compared to what happens if you do not put up a sign and so on. But it is, after all, better than what is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103358	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103408	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 outside the report by Martin Lidegaard (RV), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour 52 (S, V (by mistake), EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), neither for nor against 1 (IA). The proposal has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 5 and No 9 outside the report by the same proposer as rejected. They are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, 2, 4, 6-8 and 10, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103516	Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217103534	Thank you. As I also mentioned in my speech at the first reading of this bill, in the alternative, we have a great deal of understanding that the municipalities need help with both the temporary and permanent housing of refugees. But the proposal we are dealing with here today is not the way to do it in our optics. We have now dealt with a number of asylum violations in this Chamber, and unfortunately the common denominator is that the solution to completely pragmatic concerns is completely disproportionate. As the government was concerned about the ability of the courts to cope with their work within the 72 hours required, it chose not to allow temporary extensions such as: One week or 14 days, as recommended by human rights organisations. Instead, the government chose to abolish the time limit completely, so that there is potentially no limit to how long you can sit in detention without a court order if you are a foreigner, as well as to mark. On the same occasion, we dealt urgently with the proposal for the possibility of placing asylum seekers in tent camps, although there seems to be plenty of fixed buildings that could be used for this purpose. Last week it was transporter responsibility. It was adopted as a matter of urgency, although there was and continues to be a great deal of uncertainty about the legal certainty of both refugees and hauliers. The list is long and unfortunately there are many examples. Today, this is the bill we're dealing with. It addresses a practical housing challenge, and we also need to deal with this urgently. In the alternative, we would like to be able to contribute to this process, because we would like to help. And we recognise that if we are to help more people, it may well be that we need to extend our framework in order to make it more possible. We think this is a proper and honest project. However, we are now once again faced with a proposal which does not merely extend the scope within the pragmatic limits. Instead, the proposal abolishes, the habit of believing, one might be tempted to say, rights and generally applicable standards completely for refugees, as well as to mark. The committee's work has been asked whether we can set a new guide noise limit which can apply to these refugee homes. It has also been asked whether you can set a limit on how many people can live together in the same room and on how many square meters. It has also been asked whether a time limit can be set for how long a fugitive may live under these conditions, which are therefore inferior than what one would offer in goose eyes • ordinary Danes to live under. All of this, we must now understand, is up to the municipalities to assess. I have confidence in the municipalities, but I also know that in all these areas they are being pressured at the moment. They do so with the new Finance Act and the re-prioritisation contribution. That is why I believe that this legislation, without any rights or standards whatsoever, will once again put municipalities under severe cross- and priority pressure. This will undoubtedly force many municipalities, municipal politicians and local authorities to seek the limits of what they themselves think is decent, and certainly also to move these limits. The government and the parties to the agreement disclaim responsibility and place it clearly with the municipalities. It is very likely that we will find ourselves in a situation where something is quite unthinkable in one municipality, but where it is quite common practice in another municipality. The rights of refugees in Denmark will vary greatly. All in all, I think that we are now faced with an asylum policy that completely deprives refugees of so many rights and places them on such separate conditions that I fully understand if refugees feel treated as second-class citizens by the authorities in Denmark. I think that, and this is something we find deeply worrying in the alternative, and we cannot support that development. We want to help, but then we need to work in a way that extends the framework and gives rights that are pragmatically understandable and at least comparable to quite ordinary rights, rules and conditions that apply to all of us. That is not the kind of proposal we see many of these days. That is why we have also proposed quite pragmatically for this second reading to include a review clause in the legislative proposal, and we are asking for the revision of the law to take place on 1 April 2016. We have not been able to get support for this either. I should like to ask you to support the amendment that is before us, so that we can discuss this bill very carefully and so that we can have the opportunity to clarify the questions of how long we can sit. So I would recommend that you vote in favour of the amendment on a review clause. Either way, overall, the alternative will not be able to back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217104021	There are no brief comments. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and then the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217104032	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF) and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 24 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against voting 85 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), [for or against voting 1 (IA) ]. The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217104113	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217104130	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT, SF and KF) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 45 (DF, EL, ALT, SF and KF), against voting 64 (S, V, LA and RV), [for or against voting 1 (IA) ]. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of the RV)? The proposals have been adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217104237	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217104313	First of all, I would like to say that I understand the intention of the draft law to contribute to the development of healthy conditions of competition and to the promotion of road safety. I also understand that, with the proposal, the opposition wants to ensure orderly conditions for the country's drivers, although I must say that, to put it mildly, it is a little unusual to interfere in wage relations as a legislator in Denmark. The proposal is, after all, a re-submission of a legislative proposal made by the previous government in the spring and has its origins in a judgment given by the Supreme Court on 4 February this year. A consequence of the judgment is that drivers carrying out a licence under the legislation of goods, bus and taxi may follow any collective agreement, regardless of its content. Therefore, the opposition will now have amended the legislation in this area, because the Supreme Court ruling came out as it did, in a way that will show that drivers authorised to carry out freight, bus, limousine, medical and public service transport must comply with the provisions on pay and working conditions contained in the collective agreements concluded by the most representative social partners in Denmark and applicable throughout the Danish territory. In Denmark, as I have said, we normally have the starting point for the state not to interfere as far as possible in the regulation of pay and working conditions. It is left to the social partners to decide on this. This is what we call the Danish model, and it is something special for the Danish labour market. That is why I think it is worrying if legislation interferes with the Danish model and deprives the social partners of the possibility of establishing their own pay and working conditions in particular, because this bill assumes that drivers can only follow a certain collective agreement if they have to comply with the proposed provisions. This must be in the wording of the proposed provisions, according to which they must be the most representative. So there can only be one collective agreement which is the most representative, and since it is exactly the same words that have been used here in this proposal as it was in the proposal made by the previous government before the summer recess, I must of course assume that this is something that has been carefully considered and when one uses the term the most representative, yes, there is only one collective agreement. I know that the proposal mentions several possible agreements, but my lawyers cannot come to any other conclusion, and I can see that it must be the same lawyers who have sat and assessed the draft law at the time when the draft law was the previous government's proposal. So it must be the same lawyers, and the lawyers who are now reviewing the proposal cannot come to a different conclusion. You can follow a different agreement than the most representative one, but then it has to be identical to the most representative one, and then we are equal. So that is the most jumping point here... that it is simply said that there is only one agreement. If there are others, the others just have to remember to be like the one, and that's how we drive. I have to say that when I read through what several parties, among others. in the whole of the blue block, said at first reading of L 192 before the summer recess, that is exactly what was also said at that time. That is not what the authors of the motion for a resolution wanted to do. It has been said that we are going ahead with what we tried before the summer break, and we are going to do so again. I have to say that here was the announcement by the blue parties, as one might call it, that one was positive about the purpose of the bill and agreed that there was a need for clear rules in this area, but that at the same time one looked at it with great scepticism, as this is an intervention in the Danish model, and that, and here we are at the core again, the bill only points to one agreement that meets the proposed provision. I wonder why they do it that way. I do not know, but we will probably have a debate now, and then we will probably have a discussion in committee as well. I would like to say to the committee now that I would like to come to the committee if the committee so wishes, there are no other options either, but I would like to offer it now and say that I would like to come to the committee to discuss the matter. However, I have to say that I am surprised that a proposal is being put forward which is completely identical to the proposal put forward before the summer recess and which has not taken account of the critical voices. I do not understand why you do it unless it is because you simply want that proposal through. I can confirm here and that is also what I have said when someone has asked me that we in the government are looking at the possibility of putting forward the bill with a wording that can ensure that it is not just one agreement that comes to mind if you have to meet the requirements of the law. We are, of course, doing so because we are completely listening and were able to take note of what people said at first reading, and why, instead of trying to find each other, take up a whole discussion about the same thing again? That is what the government always has in mind, and that is why it is also something that we are considering how to do. So the government cannot support the current proposal because the reasons I have just mentioned are still valid, but will put forward an alternative proposal which will be prepared and sent to consultation as soon as possible. We will then try to see, and I would like to see, after a discussion with the parties, how to link it together so that it does not become a point of conflict that we shall see repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105011	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, rapporteur, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105040	It was more because I thought it might be that when I asked the question, the Minister should be allowed to come back to the platform, but he has done so now. Thank you. I just need to hear about something. We are, of course, very pleased that the Left is standing here and saying that, like us, we are concerned about road safety and arranged conditions and other matters, and that is why we found that the Left, when we last had the proposal in the Chamber, was very positive about this and suggested that it would be supported. But then we were a little surprised to see that the proposal was not retabled as soon as one came into government, because then one could have incorporated the changes that one would have liked to have made. If something has happened to the position of the Left since May, it was 6 May, we negotiated it when we first dealt with the former L 192, and where the Left rapporteur, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, expressed his support for this proposal? Has something happened since you suddenly appear here and then you are against just because you have not tabled the proposal yourself, because it is now the Social Democrats and a number of other parties that have tabled the proposal? Has anything happened in the meantime, because the position of the Left here has changed completely?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105146	Thank you. Then the Minister will answer from the platform. It's fine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105150	Yes, I ought to say that I do not understand the question, because that was a whiny way of saying it. I stand and repeat what was said at first reading and I assume that Mr. Rasmus Prehn knows that there were two concerns there. One of them was the one I have just mentioned to Mr. Rasmus Prehn. Then Mr. Rasmus Prehn me about what has happened, whether we have changed our mind because we say the same thing as we did last time. I don't know what that means. I'm just saying that's exactly what we're going to try to counter with a new bill, and I think that Mr. Rasmus Prehn will agree with me that if it were that simple, I know Mr. Rasmus Prehn, so I think that Mr. Rasmus Prehn may have suggested it, too, because I think, Mr. Rasmus Prehn would like his proposal to be supported in the Folketing. So it's probably not that simple to have it constructed. But like I said, I think we should meet and then have a talk about it, it's okay for me, but I just think we should solve it in a proper way so that we can all see ourselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105257	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105318	Of course, we'll figure it out. No problem with it. That, in fact, is also the approach of the Social Democrats to this issue. The fact is that we were waiting for the Left to table the bill again, and I would like to do so in a revised version. The Left has not done so; it is not part of the legislative programme. We have also asked in writing what is happening in this area, and the government and the Left have not set about anything. That is why we have tabled the legislative proposal, and if the government has a specific amendment, then we are very open to taking part in looking at it. Will the government continue to work constructively on this proposal instead of having to start from scratch? It's a piece of work that's already been done in the Ministry. Are you going to continue working on this instead of just rejecting it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105407	I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn, that this bill is not something that is particularly difficult to make. Because you've actually just taken what was before. So this isn't complicated matter. I have to say that. What is complicated is to find the things that have been changed in the draft law, and I am rather annoyed that exactly the same proposal has been put forward by the previous government before the summer recess. And now we have the problem, because the problem we saw before the summer break has not been solved. That is a little too bad, and I do not know whether I should be blamed for the fact that the proposers themselves have not solved the problem that existed before the summer recess. I would really rather have us talk and try to find a solution. I would like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105457	Thank you. And you don't talk directly. Now it looks as if there is order, and I think that is because the rapporteurs remember to press in. Then I can figure it out up here, too. Then it's mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105513	Thank you. And I would like to thank the Minister for this, because the Minister has already replied to the Committee on Transport and Tourism that we simply had to wait and see if the government had any intention of dealing with this problem, i.e. wait until we knew the legislative programme. And when we saw the legislative programme, we looked quite in vain for whether the government intended to do something about this, because there was no sign of any initiative at all to do anything about this problem. That is why the opposition is making this proposal in this Chamber in complete agreement, and I think that is the only right thing to do. The fact that the Left then has some reservations in relation to the original proposal, which is still on the table, and which is still apparently unresolved in the Left Party, can hardly be the problem of the opposition, because these are political problems which the Left has and which we do not share. So can the Minister confirm that, despite the fact that it is not in the legislative programme, there will still be a change of law in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105621	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105623	Now I think there may be someone following this with a little interest, and for those who are not fully aware of it, I would just like to say that the questioner who just spoke, Mr. Magnus Heunicke is the former Minister for Transport, who had a whole period of time when he could have negotiated with the various parties, so that agreement had been reached on this proposal. But Mr. Magnus Heunicke didn't. Sir. Magnus Heunicke chose to put forward a bill which made it impossible to reach agreement, a broad consensus. That's kind of just what I'm trying to put out a BOLO. And if you are going to go into an area where we normally never come, namely the labour market area, and are going to legislate on industrial relations, then I think you have to make as much effort as you can to try to see if you cannot find each other in agreement. It is quite rare for us to go in and legislate on industrial relations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105718	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105719	Well, now it's the government that has the right of initiative. That's what was important for the Prime Minister to have the ministerial team have the right of initiative. And then, in my quiet mind, I wonder why the right of initiative has not been used to call for negotiations on this area, if it was something that was considered important. But the Minister can explain that himself. I am thinking of the fact that the same wording that the Minister is contesting is, of course, exactly the same as that contained in the law on the posting of employees. So is it the case that the government also plans to change that law? So, is that a position of principle that the ruling party of the Left has here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105803	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105805	I understand that now, in order to get the second round, we are also beginning to ask me about legislation that I am not dealing with. I can only say that it is a good tradition for ministers to give their opinion on the legislative proposals that concern their own people, and that will happen today. But I would like to say to Mr. Magnus Heunicke, that instead of messing around here, I think it's much better that we try to find each other. In the past, it is very rare for us to go in and legislate on industrial relations. So I think we should try to keep our tongues straight in our mouths and maybe something sensible came out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105835	Thank you. And I must say that for the time being, Mr President, three comments have been made on a short note. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, sir. Henning Hyllested and Mr. Jep Bruus. Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217105847	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn tried to put words in the mouth of the Left's transport rapporteur, and one can be honored by that, especially if what was said was right. But when you distort it, it's less admirable. It is true that we in this Chamber on 6 May dealt with a totally similar draft law tabled by the then SR government, where Mr. Magnus Heunicke was the Minister of Transport. Now Mr. Rasmus Prehn to sound as if the Left were totally positive and laid down flat against that proposal, and it is simply towards better knowledge. I would just like to quote from the rapporteur's speech by the Left on the occasion when the rapporteur concludes by saying: 'Together, the Left is positive about the aim of the bill to create healthy and clear conditions of competition, but, as I said, we have a number of issues which we need to clarify and discuss in committee before we finally take a position on the draft law as a whole. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Transport if he can confirm that the rapporteur of the Left at that time, among other things, at that time. had some concerns about limousine driving, which will be greatly pressured as a result of the adoption of this bill, which has now been retabled, and that we had strong concerns about the fact that the bill goes far beyond the NORTRA judgment, in terms of imposing nationwide representative agreements and thus interfering with the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110008	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110011	I can confirm that both at that time and today the Left Transport Rapporteur is always quite clear. And that is something you can assure yourself of if you want to take the trouble to go in and read the negotiations. I have had to, because I would like to know now that I have been given the ministerial area what has basically been said to each other. So I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110032	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110037	The Minister believes that there should be a relaxed approach, or that it is extremely worrying if we approach legislation in the labour market as well. We certainly agree with that. The problem is just, I would say to the Minister, that in this particular area we are dealing with freight transport, bus transport and so on. That's why. The whole problem arises from the fact that on 4 February this year the Supreme Court went in and made a judgment, an interpretation of the way in which the Traffic Authority has so far interpreted the rules, completely changed them and, as it were, bombed this whole area back to the Stone Age, as I said at some kind of treatment that didn't ride taxi in the Stone Age, but you bomb conditions back to the Stone Age. That's why you have to make things right. I do not think it is fair to blame the former Minister of Transport for not doing anything. From February 4th, something was done. The Enhedslisten tabled a motion for a resolution; the Minister put forward a legislative proposal so that we did everything we could to achieve it, but then a choice came in the way and we did not achieve it. I have also been reading what Mr. Thomas Danielsen, on behalf of Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen said at first reading. I now also made it a positive statement, albeit with problems, and therefore I do not understand why the Minister does not put forward a legislative proposal himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110205	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110208	Perhaps the best answer I could really give is to repeat my speech, because apparently not many people have had the opportunity to hear it. I have just stood here and said that I have a great deal of sympathy for it, that I see the positive side of it and so on. etc. I am just saying that if you have to come into this area and discuss it and decide on something, then it is good to have you cleaned up as a minister, so you try to make sure that you get the various parties with you. Of course, you can also have the approach that you think you should just run it through. Perhaps that is just what has happened again, namely that you have made a copy of what has been put forward once. We have not really given any thought to what the rapporteurs were basically saying, and perhaps we should try to see whether we could take that into account. That's what I'm trying to do. Henning Hyllested. - Sir? - Yes, sir. Henning Hyllested be welcome to participate in. But it is not quite that simple and I am not taking part in a discussion that the Supreme Court ruling has done something wrong. I take note of the Supreme Court ruling, and then I act in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110311	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Henning Hyllested the word in the second round? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110317	Yes, but this bill, which is, of course, a complete recapitulation of the previous legislative proposal that was tabled in the spring, is precisely an attempt to clean up the mess. This is precisely an attempt to clean up after the Supreme Court ruling, and it is the right way to do it. Because we have to take note of the Supreme Court ruling. It cannot be challenged in this way, but then you have to change the legislation that has given rise to the fact that the Supreme Court suddenly leaves this whole area of agreements between the taxi, freight, transport and bus sectors completely open to any agreement, even if it has just been concluded between a single carrier and a single driver.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110353	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110356	The second possibility is, of course, that you can choose to comply with the Supreme Court ruling. That's what happens. So here we have the attitude I understand that some have suggested that you want us to try to change the law so that it fits better now that the Supreme Court has delivered its judgment. To that there is only one thing to say: I have to go with Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested and others have found out how much you want to take a stand on what the Supreme Court ruling says is that agreements can be made and how much you want to take it into account. If you want to, you cannot continue to say that there must be only one agreement. Then we have to find each other in this, and it's not just about how you can shout out the window: look what we've been doing. So it must also be something that can be used afterwards, and also something that respects the democratic rules of the game. I think we should all take it seriously when the Supreme Court has spoken and then try to see if we can find a model we can all see ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110458	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110504	Thank you. I fully agree with the Minister that it would, of course, be most appropriate for us to find each other and find a common model on which we can agree. I also understand that the Minister is in a position to discuss this with the committee. A bill has been tabled in the spring. Then there has been a first reading, and then there will be a choice. Now we stand here about six months after an election. Has there been any work going on in the Ministry? Has the Minister asked his officials to continue working on the bill that was there? Why didn't the Minister put it in the legislative programme? Have there been any negotiations? I know it has not been made visible to the opposition, so my question is (1): has this been continued? And 2): Isn't this an opportunity to try to find each other? Then you can table amendments to the legislative proposal that is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110602	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110605	Well, actually, I'm just gonna read what I said... in particular, because this draft law assumes that drivers can only follow a certain collective agreement if they are to comply with the proposed provisions. This must be in the wording of the proposed provisions, according to which they must be the most representative. There can therefore be only one collective agreement which is the most representative. I then explained that my lawyers have assessed this and they have said that it must be so. So the problem has not been solved. I hardly dare say anything other than that the former Minister for Transport must, after all, have followed the view that it has been assessed. It's the same lawyers sitting there. It is therefore perhaps much more topical to ask whether the proposers are prepared to meet the Supreme Court ruling and those parties who were concerned that there was only one agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110702	Sir. Jep Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110706	The Minister is very concerned that we respect the rules of democracy. And the rules of democracy here are such that I ask a question, and so I expect the Minister to answer and that it is not the other way around, that is to say the Minister to ask questions. I did not get an answer to my question, and I fully agree with what the Minister thinks about that. So let me just ask quite simply: did the Minister ask his officials to continue working on the bill that the opposition has now put forward here before the Minister was asked to deal with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110733	Now it is the case that democracy also means that I do not have to have my speech approved, not even by Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus. It's just that it's made absolutely clear. So if I want to say that it is interesting to clarify whether the proposers mean it, then I can say it in my speech. And so do I. The second thing I want to say is that, yes, I have asked my officials to take a look at this, and I think we have a bit of a common problem, otherwise I think that instead of writing the proposal, the proposers would have written a solution to this in the draft law. It is not quite that simple, and certainly not when we have to bear in mind that it should also be possible to interpret it afterwards, so that we do not have a new situation in which a matter is to be dealt with in the Supreme Court. But I think we can find each other, and that is where I find it more interesting whether you want to find each other or whether you want to just show that you have a proposal and then you want to see if you can get it through rather than find a common understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110828	I would like to thank the Minister, and that will be the next rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Kim Christiansen. Hey! It's sir. Kim Christiansen as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217110851	Thank you for that, President. This is pure recycling. It's a rebirth, and no comma has changed. That is why I have also taken my last speech from the rapporteur, because when the Minister was up here on the podium, I was able to hear that there were some doubts as to what had actually been said when we dealt with it here in the spring. And so that there is no doubt about it, I have taken a copy of my rapporteur's speech. I do not think I want to read it again, because everyone can go in and read it. But what I want to say, and as I also said when we last dealt with this bill, is that this is a little self-inflicted situation. When the VK government was in power with the Danish People's Party as a support party, we solved this problem in that we changed EP rules and rules. So the Social Democrats rushed to roll backwards as soon as they got the government power because Henrik Dam Christensen, who was the Transport Minister at the time, apparently had got cold feet compared to some DUT demands from municipalities and regions. One might say that we had solved the problem there, and I said that last time: one OST licence, one taxi licence. Then you would have been free of this circus, which is the background to the NORTRA judgment. Having said that, I am very, very positive about having this resolved. I was last. Of course we need to close this hole so you can contain social dumping etc. But I have the same reservations as last time about restricting myself to one union, and I have not changed my mind about that. After all, we did not get a proper committee to deal with it last time, because there was a parliamentary election, and it was a good thing it came. Then I have to live with the fact that the committee procedure has been postponed until now, but I look forward to it, and there we will hopefully be able to land something on which the Folketing can agree. 'Cause I think this is way too important for us to play red and blue living room, but maybe we're trying to get closer. I was able to hear that the Minister was sympathetic and I could also understand that perhaps there was a similar bill with some other things coming in. And then we'll see how we can make it go into a higher unit. That must be the message from me today, and I look forward, as I said, to the work of the committee, because there is no doubt that it is important to close these gaps in relation to wage dumping. In the Danish People's Party we then have the conviction that there may be more trade unions that can solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111147	There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111152	Thank you. Of course, I've also been there, and I don't think I'm the only one who's ever had time to study what Mr. Kim Christiansen said at the first reading of the bill in the spring. And it says at the outset: "The Danish People's Party is largely positive about the proposal. We are positive about countering social dumping within the industry. We are positive about creating equal competition in the taxi industry. So at that time it was at least the opinion of the Danish People's Party and of Mr. Kim Christiansen, that this bill would, after all, help solve. And the problem has arisen as a result of the Supreme Court ruling, which, as I said earlier, leaves this area completely, I would almost say lawless. I myself had a discussion during the previous reading of the bill with Mr. Kim Christiansen, for Mr. Kim Christiansen is trying to hang his hat on this with one union. But it is not mentioned anywhere that this is about one union. In other words, a number of national agreements have been concluded, and there are a number of major business organisations, Danish Business, Danish Industry, which are parties to these agreements, and I do not understand why you are trying to hang your hat on the fact that this is, like, aimed at one trade union. It is so 3F, I can understand that it might as well be Krifa if they have a national agreement in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111320	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111323	Thank you. Now I don't wear a hat, so I don't really need to hang it anywhere either. But I would like to say to Mr. Henning Hyllested, that when it says it's the most representative, it's only one it can be. After all, only one can be the most representative; I hope that we can agree on that. And that's exactly what was kind of the problem. Then I can see that other trade unions are mentioned elsewhere in the proposal. However, as I said, I believe that this is a great deal about finding a model in which it is precisely about what the legislative proposal really has to counter, namely social dumping, and then there must be equal competition on the market. And we can easily find a solution to that, and we are very positive about that. But we are still sceptical about the wording of the proposal, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111416	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111419	The problem with the Supreme Court ruling was, of course, that it will not, in fact, only apply to the taxi area. I have pointed out that there are in fact a number of national agreements in this area. But the problem is that the judgment also has an impact on the law on the carriage of goods and on the law on bus and coach transport. And that means that the lawlessness of the contract may be referred to as "the result of the Supreme Court's judgment, as well as the law on the carriage of goods. Now, sir. Kim Christiansen was one of those who fought against social dumping on the road. If this is allowed to go through, if the Supreme Court ruling is allowed to stand by without being imposed, if I may say so, then it will mean that the fight against social dumping on the road will completely stop. And I'd like to hear about that, sir. Kim Christiansen has thought through the consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111512	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111515	Well, I actually think well, sir. Henning Hyllested knows the answer, for we have fought together far along the way, the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, as some of those who have taken the lead in the fight against social dumping, and that there should not be these Laredo states on the Danish roads. And the Danish People's Party has not changed its mind about it at all. That is why I have actually expressed a very positive view of the fact that we are going in and legislate in this area. We just don't quite agree on how to get to the target. Sir. Henning Hyllested thinks that one should favour the red trade union movement, and there the Danish People's Party may think that we should stay a little neutral and let the Danish model decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111553	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111555	Now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen, of course, indicates that the Danish People's Party has even taken the lead in this matter of social dumping. Should we not have co-sponsored this proposal? After all, this is the proposal that can help to ensure that we stop the undermining of pay conditions that is happening. After all, the wording contained in the current proposal has been taken from the Posting of Workers Directive. So it has been taken from the highest point, and we had a discussion on how best to do this when we made the first proposal. This is something that is recommended by DTL, Danish Industry and 3F and others. They see this as the best way to combat social dumping. Will the Danish People's Party work constructively to ensure that this proposal can then become a reality with any changes, rather than, as the Minister says, going into a whole new round? Will the Danish People's Party here on the platform undertake to continue working on this proposal so that we can end up adopting a variation of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111658	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111700	We're gonna help make the incentive in this bill come true. We have not been very concerned about who is to be the proposer. Sir. Rasmus Prehn asked me earlier. Whether it is the Minister who makes a proposal that we can support, or it is Mr. Rasmus Prehn, we're not so busy either. We must look at this during the committee procedure. What we are concerned about is that we are putting an end to this gap that has come with the NORTRA judgment and that we have a level playing field and proper pay and working conditions. But this proposal does not make it possible for us to do so immediately. If you really wanted the Danish People's Party to have just jumped out and co-sponsored this, you would have listened to what we said at first reading last time, and you would have changed this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111746	Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111749	We actually sent this bill to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, so there was an opportunity to make any changes. That's what you've chosen not to do. There has been an opportunity to do so, but leave it alone. I think it is important that the Danish People's Party here from the platform confirms that it will work constructively on this in committee and end up adopting a variation of this bill. Because if we are going to wait for the Minister again, we Social Democrats are seriously afraid that time will just be delayed and nothing will happen. That's what we've seen so far. We had a key bill in May. The Minister could have chosen to change it, so it was ready for adoption this autumn. Yet nothing has happened. Isn't the Danish People's Party concerned that it might drown over in the ministry? Wouldn't you rather jump on this bill and change what you want to change?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111840	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111843	In that we, together with the government and others over in the blue block, represent a majority, I am not as concerned as Mr. Rasmus Prehn might be, in terms of promoting a possible bill from the Minister. Anyway, I'm not saying we don't want one thing or the other. I'm just saying that we're positive about the intentions of this bill. There are some things we do not like, and we must discuss this in committee. I'm not gonna stand here today and give Mr. Knox... Rasmus Prehn a commitment to support any changes, because I do not know what changes we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111917	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217111925	Thank you. Generally speaking, recycling is a good thing, which most people support as something positive. And there is also re-use in this draft law, because it is, in fact, exactly the same wording as was in L 192, which was put forward by the then SR government and which was discussed in this Chamber in May this year. The problem with this recycling is just that you haven't really listened to the debate that was in the Parliamentary Assembly in May. If this had been done, the bill would have been slightly adjusted, so that the concerns which, among other things, had been met. were from the blue parties. But you haven't done that. In this way, the same draft law has been put forward. After all, we agree that the NORTRA judgment must be followed up. There is broad political agreement on this, and the Minister has made that clear. We're gonna have relationships. But it is important that it is thoroughly worked out and that it does not give some particular national trade unions such as the United Kingdom. 3F a genuine monopoly status. It would be a break with the Danish model, which I do not understand that especially the red part of the Folketing can live with. But we agree that this needs to be followed up. I must also express my surprise at the fact that the draft law does not, after all, state the detailed content of the collective agreements which are in force throughout Denmark, and unfortunately the draft law does not reveal which of the social partners are considered representative either. And that's what's at the heart of this. As the Left sees the bill, it will mean giving a genuine monopoly to certain trade unions. The opposition, therefore, has gone a step further than the NORTRA judgment, and the judgment has been used to propose more regulation in the whole taxi sector, that is, a state with more regulation than the state before the NORTRA judgment. One example of this is that limo driving is often characterised by freelance drivers, and the bill will effectively make this type of employment impossible in the future. However, in the industry it is necessary to be able to hire drivers freelance because it is a seasonal profession with considerable variations in the amount of driving. The industry will not be able to pay drivers all year round with a fixed hourly wage, such as: The agreement between Krifa and 3F presupposes. Therefore, limo driving is an example of something that should be taken out of the bill. As I have said, this is an interference in the Danish model and it is deeply worrying, but on the other hand I would like to stress once again that it is necessary to clarify the rules in the wake of the NORTRA judgment. To sum up, the Left is in favour of the main aim of the draft law to create healthy and clear conditions of competition. The Minister has just indicated this, and so the government will shortly submit a legislative proposal with the same effect, without the monopoly status of certain trade unions. For the reasons I have just mentioned, the Left cannot support the specific legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112250	Then there is a comment from Mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112253	Now Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen himself in a question earlier what had been said by the Left about this proposal. After all, it was in May, and it was very welcoming and very positive, and there was also a willingness to continue working on it. Can the rapporteur of the Left explain why it has not been worked on now that government power has been taken over? Why have the last many months not been used to correct the proposal so that it could be presented in the government's legislative programme and adopted and moved forward with this so that proper pay and working conditions can be ensured for people in the driving industry? Why hasn't it been done? That's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112337	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112341	Well, I'm not gonna give Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn advice, but I think, sir. Rasmus Prehn should concentrate on what has been said here today, both by the Minister and by the Left and by others, namely that of course we need to clean this up. We have to do that, and there we have to talk together and against each other, instead of trying to make a front like this and saying: Why on earth haven't you just taken our brilliant bill from May and then drove on straight away? Well, this needs time to be worked through. There's been fucking on the bedbug, to tell you the truth, in the wake of the parliamentary election. We've been busy with a lot of things, and Mr. Rasmus Prehn good. There's a lot of big stuff. But the good news is that we agree that we need to continue working on this. We think there are some problems in this bill, and I am therefore very much looking forward to the Minister coming forward with a draft law soon, which takes into account the concerns of the matter and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112435	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112439	Fuck the laybird, you've heard about it. I do not think it is a picture that really matches the experience that I have of the government's efforts in the field of transport policy. That is where virtually all the projects have been closed down. So you've had peace and quiet to sit in the Ministry of Transport and work on some of these things. And if it were the case that there were good tactics in that bill of May, you could have made the changes that needed to be made and put it forward. So it's weird that you don't do it. But okay, now there's a suggestion here. Instead of starting over again, could the Left not table a specific amendment which we can then put on a holm walk here at second reading so that we can get on with this? Because I assume that the Left still thinks that, as in May, it is important that we ensure proper pay and working conditions and that we ensure that there is stability and security in the driver industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112529	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112532	But the main question here is that we need to clean up, and I have made that clear several times. And I am most confident that it is the Minister who is now putting forward a specific legislative proposal. This will be done soon, as the Minister has indicated. And then we take into account the things we have to deal with in the wake of the NORTRA judgment, and we take into account the concerns that have been raised about this. Don't make it about who puts his name to a bill. It is as if this is a sacred writing that must be implemented at all costs. We don't see it that way. Let's solve the problem. That's what this is about. As to whether the government has been on the left side of transport policy, I strongly reject the fact that it should have done so. As Mr. Rasmus Prehn knows, there have been a number of major cases that have been swept under the carpet by the previous government, for example. The whole clean-up of the tariff structure and other very large items, which we have spent a lot of time on in the autumn, has been absolutely necessary. So I must completely reject the fact that the government is on the verge of Danish transport policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112632	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112638	The rapporteur is most confident that the Minister for Transport will come up with a legislative proposal, and that is no wonder, since he belongs to the governing party after all. So that's fair enough. But, of course, one wonders why the Minister then does not have a new legislative proposal in the legislative programme. The truth is that we are in favour of this now because we, a number of parties, have been pressured to retable this bill. The rapporteur says that we would like the proposal to be adjusted and that we also have some specific amendments to add. So I am asking: what are some of these changes? We want it not to be aimed at just one trade union. I see nowhere in the bill that this is aimed at one trade union. But it is aimed at having national agreements. Is that what we are going to try to do about, that is, the whole idea of collective national agreements, which is, after all, a defence of good pay and working conditions for drivers who drive goods, bus, taxi?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112744	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112748	On the contrary. We are very much in favour of the Danish model, which is of great benefit to society as a whole and to industry and the labour market. What is the problem here is that you go in and say that it should be a representative trade union. And so there is only one that can be most representative. So this is really going to give a monopoly to certain trade unions, and we are against that. This is simply contrary to the spirit of the Danish model, and it is one of the main problems in this. There are other things that are problematic in it. However, I look forward to a legislative proposal now being put forward which takes these things into account, and I also sense that there is a very broad consensus that we must move forward and have this kicked in the finish line. And that's what we're gonna get.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112829	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112832	It may well be that the wording of the most representative agreements will be removed and that it will be synonymous with the fact that there is only one trade union union. But if it is not the most representative trade unions or trade unions, what would it be? Then you go on to the Supreme Court's thinking that any agreement is valid; even if it has just been made with a single trucker and his two drivers a dark night across the kitchen table. It actually takes place, and it's called driver agreements, but the rest of us call them lousy agreements. That is what you are opening up to if you suddenly want to tamper with the wording about representative parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112909	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112912	No, it's a distortion of things. It is clear that this bill is about targeting certain trade unions, and it is simply an intervention in the Danish model. And what I am comfortable about is that the government is making a proposal in which we find a sensible balance in these things, so that we get arranged, but also maintain respect for the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112936	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217112952	Thank you. The problem has arisen because we've got this Supreme Court ruling. That, of course, is what this bill, which is a re-submission from the spring, is trying to take into account. If the state of law is what the Supreme Court has said it is, and the Supreme Court has decided that this is the state of law, then it is up to us as legislators to change the state of law if we want to change the circumstances of the Supreme Court ruling. What the Supreme Court judgment gives rise to is that any agreement they are called driver agreements, I call them lousy agreements, is applicable. It appears to a large extent in the taxi industry. There are very many road hauliers who sit with their own drivers... be it two or ten drivers......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have already pointed out, when examining the last draft law, that there are in fact a number of agreements which are national but which have also been concluded by the so-called representative parties. It is, on the one hand, 3F, but on the other hand, the Danish Occupation, the TA Agreement, DI, the ADR Agreement and the ATAX Agreement. They're all national agreements. The wordings of taxi driving with taximeters and sick transport, limousine driving and OST driving are completely the same in the relevant agreements, and their coverage areas are, as I say, national. For example: The ATAX Agreement actually covers 1,500 appropriations and 500-600 of them are OST appropriations. The TA-agreement with Dansk Erhverv covers the whole country with the exception of Storkøbenhavn, and the ADR-agreement with DI includes Aarhus, Vejle, parts of Copenhagen and Horsens, for example. So there are some guidelines to follow. When the Supreme Court ruling suddenly changes the legal situation and makes any completely arbitrary agreement valid and puts it on an equal footing with the so-called representative agreements and national agreements, then we have to react, otherwise this will lead, at least in the area of pay and working conditions, to lawless conditions. I simply cannot understand that the Danish People's Party is partly not a co-sponsor of this proposal, partly not embarking on it and saying that this is really good. I look forward, of course, to the committee's work and look forward to what might come from amendments, because I understand that the Danish People's Party has the same concerns that it should not be one trade union. Now I see nowhere in the bill that this is aimed at one trade union, but it is clear that a trade union such as 3F is the one who has made the national agreements. The counterpart is Danish Occupation, Danish Industry. These are also representative employers' parties. Why it should be aggressive from the right's point of view, then I cannot get into my head. In his ministerial speech, the Minister referred to this with legislation. It is precisely this area, the area of freight transport, the area of passenger transport by bus or taxi, that is regulated. It is precisely for the sake of ensuring that road safety is not affected and that drivers' pay and working conditions are not pressured, because it gives reason for cutting a heel and cutting a toe, and then driving under the terms of the agreement. So here is, in fact, an area in which there is a framework legislation which, like that, regulates that this does not develop into lawless, also for reasons of road safety. That's very reasonable. The Danish People's Party has always been very concerned about this, but so far, at least I see Mr. Kim Christiansen's speech is such that you stagger a little. However, this is very good in addition to the fact that efforts in the 2016 Finance Act have deteriorated in the area of social dumping and that I note that the fight against illegal cabotage has been reduced by 10 million. kr. from 25 million kr. EUR 15 million; kr. I hope that is not what the Danish People's Party wants to be known for in the area of road transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113519	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113522	On the socialist side, we would like to sign for an incredibly sharp, precise and also educational presentation of the bill. It can't be said more clearly. To Mr. Henning Hyllested's concern about the Danish People's Party then I would say that it is also a concern that we have from the Social Democrats. I would like to hear Enhedslisten's assessment of the Danish People's Party's handling of this matter: does it not sound like they are finding some lukewarm and fairy explanatory statement, a back door that they can sneak out of? Doesn't that sound a little like what's going on? Well, we hope not, but couldn't that sound a little bit on Mr. Knox? Kim Christiansen, like that's what you're doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113611	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113614	It is, of course, also a concern that I have and which I share with Mr Beazley. Rasmus Prehn. So far, at least, I have been of the opinion that we could count on the Danish People's Party when it comes to the fight against social dumping in road transport. We have on the left stood cargo and burst with the Danish People's Party when it comes to fighting against, for example. I do not understand why the Danish People's Party does not state on the spot that we cannot do that; that is something that needs to be corrected. I note, of course, that Mr. Kim Christiansen is positive in his first speech, but that it is with some reservations; I can also hear that between the lines. But the work of the committee will show that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113715	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113719	On the Socialist side, we are also very curious about what is going to happen in committee work. I'd like to hear Mr. Enhedslisten's. Henning Hyllested, if it would not be the most natural thing if we generally agree with the big picture, but if we have some minor adjustments, we will have it corrected in committee so that we can have this proposal adopted with some amendments rather than waiting for a possible new proposal. If you really want something to do with combating social dumping, the least you do must be to table that amendment, get it finished and get it adopted here. For the longer time it takes when there is no proposal, the longer we may run the risk of undermining pay and working conditions. I'd like to hear Enhedslisten's assessment of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113804	That is why I am very anxious to see what the work of the committee will bring, and whether it will bring some concrete proposals I myself called for from the rapporteur of the Left, who said a little about the same thing about amending this draft law, or whether it all ends up that we should probably wait for the Minister to come up with a new legislative proposal which, as I mentioned earlier, has been forced because we have maintained to table this bill because, as we know, there was no legislative proposal in this area of the legislative programme. So yes, much depends on the committee work, and much depends on the attitude of the Danish People's Party to this, because then I believe that we can get through with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113843	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113847	I should like to begin by thanking Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested for the huge role he assigns to the Danish People's Party. I am very pleased that we have a deep respect for that, of course, and we shall take it on board as well. But I have a small question for Mr. Thunderstorm. Henning Hyllested against Dansk Folkeparti and Kim Christiansen. I really think I have been very positive, and I hope that we can talk towards each other instead of talking about each other. But I just want that mr. Henning Hyllested confirms to me that when the previous government sat there and the Danish People's Party among others. together with V and K had made a sensible move that put an end to this EP circus and OST circus, Mr. Henning Hyllested and Enhedslisten actually vote to roll back the scheme so that we ended up in this wild West where you could drive around with 100 OST cars on some hopeless pay and working conditions. That's what Enhedslisten added to it. - Sir... Henning Hyllested doesn't confirm it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113945	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217113948	Yes, Enhedslisten added to that, and it is not the change of law that came at the time that is the problem. It is the Supreme Court's judgment that is the problem, it is the Supreme Court's judgment that suddenly changes the legal situation in relation to what was in force in the past, after which the Traffic Authority has administered. Then I'm gonna arrest something. I am not thundering against the Danish People's Party. I am just trying to hold onto the Danish People's Party here, because the Danish People's Party has a very sharp profile when it comes to combating social dumping on road transport. I am of course very interested that it should be the Danish People's Party and not least Mr. Kim Christiansen, who, after all, has made one's way of getting the sharp profile, is not allowed to get by easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114034	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114038	I have no doubt about that, nor did I expect me to be able to get away with anything easily. Sir. Henning Hyllested then says that this is not the reason for the NORTRA judgment. Yes, that is because if we had maintained the law we had made where we said that one EP licence, or call it an OST licence, was equivalent to one taxi licence, then we would not have had these companies, which may have 50, 80 or 100 cars, which only run public service traffic and are closing the entire taxi industry into that account and to some salaries, which are due to the fact that some kitchen table agreements have been made. Then we wouldn't have had that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114121	Exactly. It's exactly those kitchen tables that are the problem. They flourish far and wide in the taxi business, no doubt about it. It's an incredibly difficult business to organize at all. Well, I'll say that. I myself come from a transport trade union under 3F. But that is still not the main problem. In fact, the Road Traffic Authority managed wisely according to the rules in force, but then the Supreme Court ruling comes and completely changes the legal situation, and unfortunately it also has very serious spill-over effects on the Freight Transport Act and the Bus Driving Act. It does not just hit the taxi area, and that is what is quite disastrous about the Supreme Court ruling.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114158	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114207	Thank you. I am not going to interfere so much in the shadows between DF and Enhedslisten, but simply state that the Liberal Alliance believes that freedom should be created for all professional organisations to enter into agreements in the field of transport and logistics, just as we normally expect when dealing with the Danish model, as the Minister has mentioned. This does not seem to be the case here, and we cannot therefore support the bill. We consider it very likely that 3F, with the wording of the bill, will de facto have monopoly status, and we cannot accept that. We also believe that this is problematic in relation to the law in this area, which has been mentioned by several people, because it can inexorably influence the Members' choice of professional organisation. We therefore do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114317	I do not understand, of course, the fear that 3F will enter into agreements in this area and have a monopoly status. In other words, if it were so bad, it would be assumed that in this case large organisations such as Danish Industry and Danish Occupations would probably not enter into such an agreement. I cannot quite understand, and of course I would like to ask the rapporteur why it is that we are not in favour of the fact that professional organisations in this area have concluded these agreements and are apparently satisfied. There are two sides to an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114359	Of course, it takes two parties to conclude an agreement, that goes without saying. But the net result of the principles that lie here means that we will have a monopoly state. This must be the case if you look at the representativeness in both places. On each side it must end up with only one organisation having a monopoly, and it is a bad thing that we, as a Parliament, interfere in such relationships.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114422	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114425	It is, of course, the nature of agreements to be, what should be said, market disruptors. It is clear that the labour market is regulated through agreements. But as I say, two parties are required to enter into an agreement, and when both Danish Industry and Danish Industry in this case, and the employers in the ATAX area, have certainly thought that it is an excellent agreement they have concluded here with 3F and I certainly do not think that 3F can be accused of having used the methods of revolvers; nor has the rapporteur said so, I should honestly admit that and when the agreements have been concluded as completely voluntary agreements, why have so much against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114509	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114512	There is, of course, some superior law in this area, some higher powers, which I understand Mr. Henning Hyllested is very unhappy with the fact that we have to adjust to this, which is why there are some principles at stake that I think are more important than the lack of disruption in the free market, as Mr. Henning Hyllested mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114537	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Nikolaj Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114549	Thank you very much. I would like to start by signing off on the Minister's openness and willingness to negotiate in relation to this. I would also like to say that, in the alternative, we are concerned both with ensuring flexibility in the labour market and to ensure proper working conditions. On the other hand, we are not particularly concerned about whether the proposal has been put forward by one or the other. I am quite sure that we in the committee can approach each other. Whether it will be in connection with this bill, or whether a process has already been initiated in the Ministry, which ends up with a bill by the Minister, we do not yet know, but I am sure that we in the committee can meet and jointly create a legislative proposal that both ensures the proper working conditions and ensures the flexibility that is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114657	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114701	It is simply such a pleasure to experience the alternative here in the Parliamentary Chamber, because there is such a positive atmosphere and an expectation in relation to the work and it is contagious. I would like to thank the Social Democrats for this. Now it is not to drip wormwood into the cup or something, but can the alternative rapporteur not be a little worried about the situation that we are not going to solve the challenges with this bill and we have to wait for the Minister, who has not taken an initiative yet, and then we risk that time just goes on and on as it has gone so far? And if we end up in that situation, will the alternative help to keep the Minister on fire so that we can find a solution in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114744	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114749	Yes, in the alternative, we would very much like to help keep the Minister on fire, but we would like to wait first and foremost for the process in committee. I have also been reading the things that happened during the first reading of L 192, and I could see that there were some knots here, some thistles to use an expression from yesterday and I think we can get over that too. That is why, of course, we are concerned that this problem must be resolved and that must be resolved as soon as possible. Perhaps the quickest solution is for us to find some sensible amendments to the proposal put forward. But if, as I almost understood from the Minister, work is already being done on making a legislative proposal, it may be the easiest. I think we shall find out in committee or in consultation with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114849	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114851	Does the alternative rapporteur think that a possible new proposal by the Minister will be as strong and as effective as the legislative proposal which the alternative itself has helped to present here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114904	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114907	I am most concerned that we will solve the problem and, if there is to be an opportunity to resolve the problem, we need cooperation that is so broad that a majority can be achieved in favour of the proposal. That is why, in our view, it is best first to have thorough committee work done, and then we can see which solution is best.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114933	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217114943	The Radical Left does not think it should be the case that a few people can sit and make an agreement, which is then called an agreement, and which then applies to the regulation we have in our entire transport industry. There was a Supreme Court ruling which, in principle, opened up such very small agreements where one might wonder where the protection of employees is. That's why we were preoccupied with making a change of law so that we could make sure that this profession and this market has proper conditions. We made that bill together, and we made it. But it did not come to pass. We have then been able to see that the new government has not really put anything on the legislative programme, and that is why we have retabled the draft law that the SR government had. And I can now understand from the Minister of Transport's speech that the Left and the government will begin to try to look at a bill. I think that is very positive, and that is a consequence of the fact that we have retabled this bill. Now we have not yet heard what the Conservative People's Party says, but I expect them to be opposed to the legislative proposal, which is why, unfortunately, there is no majority. However, I would nevertheless like to sign for the Minister of Transport's wish to enter into dialogue in committee or where it may be so that we can try to see whether we can make a common solution broadly in the Folketing. I think the Minister for Transport asked several times whether we who tabled the proposal were willing to listen to what the Left and others have in mind, and of course we are, because we really want to help find a solution and find a majority in order to avoid these very small collective agreements, which can be considered if they are collective agreements at all. Now I do not want to use the same word as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, but we certainly want to help see if we can find a majority to avoid it. Of course, we support the draft law, but we look forward to the debate in committee that is taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115143	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115150	Fixed and regulated conditions in the labour market do not come on their own, and so it cannot live on words alone. It takes action. Wild West modes will throw gravel into the flexible and effective model we have in Denmark to organise working conditions. But we are challenged for security in these years and now, most recently, by the Supreme Court. There are different ways to throw gravel into the machinery. There may be a lack of agreements. It may be that the employees or employers are not allowed to be organized in the organizations which actually bear the collective agreements. Or it may be that you find more or less obscure and small agreements and then label them as actual agreements. It is a strong foundation that organisations in the labour market enter into solid agreements, but if agreements are to have an effect and legitimacy, it requires both strong organisations and that everywhere we make an effort to keep our hands under the civilised, regulated labour market. Everyone talks oh, so sweet about the Danish model. In particular, most people are very impressed that this flexible labour market gives such a high level of productivity. And that's but without a strong foundation the house collapses. I feel a bit like when people talk so nicely about the Danish model, it is as if you sometimes admire a house, but just admire the roof and say a lot of nice things about how beautifully the roof is built, and especially the twigs can often be very nicely done by the carpenters. But you would like to just buy the coffin or buy the roof without wanting to own the rest of the house or the land on which it stands. That doesn't make any sense. You can't talk sugar sweet about arranged conditions and at the same time allow room for free riders. It is quite trivial, therefore, that an agreement or an agreement only makes sense if it has legitimacy and it actually represents the industry. If we are serious about the praise of the Danish model, then we are serious about the fight against social dumping, and then the table will catch up on a day like today, when we will in practice help to ensure that we have proper conditions in the transport sector. You can't just shop around like that and maybe behind a door under a stack of papers find a poor deal and call it a legitimate deal. If you want to strengthen the Danish model seriously and if you want to keep your hand under the labour market, which at the same time provides security and flexibility, this bill is a stone in the foundation that carries the orderly and regulated labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115539	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115543	Thank you very much for the SF's comments here. These are very precise and good considerations. I would like to hear the SF's rapporteur on the position of the Danish People's Party on this issue. Can the SF's rapporteur not be afraid that the Danish People's Party is finding a shortcut out of this, so that we do not stand firm on this fight against social dumping, but are perhaps joining the Minister's a little more festive solution, which will not have the same effect? I'd like to hear the SF's assessment of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115620	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115623	Yes, I also see the Danish People's Party on many levels as being a sad affair. Again in this situation, I think that they are acting as a handshake to the government instead of manning themselves up and standing firm to the views and using the influence and strength they have to actually push the government too. But what is going on in these weeks is clearly going the opposite way. The Danish People's Party is subjugated by the Left Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115653	Was that the answer to the question, sir? Rasmus Prehn, or is there a new comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115657	I would like to make a further comment. I want to know if SF's mr. Karsten Hønge shares the view that the most effective thing the Danish People's Party can do is to adopt this concrete proposal, possibly with some amendments, but to continue working on it here so that we get it adopted as soon as possible rather than waiting for the Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115721	I have not heard the slightest explanation from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party today as to why we should not go in and support it. It's okay that there are some things you can't agree with. Then there is a good opportunity to meet with some amendments or to influence the process. I think that the only credible thing from the Danish People's Party would be to shake hands on the fact that this is a step towards maintaining that in the transport sector we also have arranged and regulated working conditions. One thing is that it is incomprehensible to me that they are not doing it, but I also think it is incomprehensible to a great many of their constituents.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115752	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115755	It is quite entertaining to sit down and hear a dialogue between the opposition parties about how the Danish People's Party behaves, what we think and what we say. I don't know if sir. Karsten Hønge was not in the Chamber when I gave my rapporteur's speech he may have been busy talking to Mr. Rasmus Prehn or others, but I just said that the Danish People's Party was positive about this proposal, but that there were parts of it, among others. how we got to the goal we didn't agree with. That's what I said when we last discussed the bill. - Sir... Karsten Hønge does not at least admit that we have actually expressed a very positive attitude towards this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115836	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115839	I am glad if that is further confirmation that it is actually intended to support the proposal. I heard it as if you supported the bill and saw some positive things in it, but... then you looked for a cat lady not to do it anyway. But if I'm here from sir... Kim Christiansen hears that it is actually supported and thus tightens up what I heard in the rapporteur's speech, so I can only be very happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115905	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115908	Now I'm being put in words. I did not say that we supported what I said, that we were very, very positive about the intentions of this bill. That is what I said in my rapporteur's speech. We just need to have the respect of each other that we certainly do not refer each other's views in an incorrect way. I would very much appreciate that. So just to get it completely clarified there is no question in it: we are still positive about the intentions of stopping wage dumping in order to create a level playing field. It's just to give you some precision, for sir. Karsten Hønge had apparently gotten his hands on my rapporteur's speech completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115950	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217115952	It is close to Christmas, so I choose to interpret it very positively, namely that there is a possibility that we will have an agreement that includes the Danish People's Party and thus a majority here in the Danish Parliament, so that we can very quickly create orderly, secure and regulated conditions in the transport industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217120009	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130003	We shall resume the sitting after the break. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the rapporteur on the list is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130023	Thank you. I'm not usually a transport rapporteur, but I've promised to take this on L 72, which we didn't quite finish. After all, the draft law is about agreements in the field of transport, and we are in the same position as we did the last time this was dealt with. We are already in the unusual situation that in this area it is compulsory for an employer to follow an agreement. You simply cannot be allowed to operate this type of business if you do not sign an agreement. Thus we differ from the normal Danish model, and we have in practice legislated on pay and working conditions, which we always say is not practice. Now we want to legislate more by narrowing with which unions can agree. We cannot support that from the conservative side. We are in favour of freedom of association and not of monopoly conditions. This is contrary to the principles we normally uphold in the labour market. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130131	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130134	Thank you to the Conservative People's Party and to Mrs Mette Abildgaard for her speech. Is the rapporteur aware that a number of employers' organisations support this idea and think it is a good idea? Moreover, they do not see this as an opportunity for monopolies to arise, but as a means of guaranteeing orderly conditions. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that it stands out, but it does, among other things. for safety reasons, because it is people who drive in traffic. Is the rapporteur aware that there are important interest groups on the employers side too, which are normally associated with the Conservative People's Party, which actually supports this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130218	I must disappoint the rapporteur that we are taking our decision completely independently in the Conservative People's Party and not per. automatically so adopt what others might think. We have taken note of what has been said in this case, but we believe that it is a breach of the Danish model in which we leave the agreements to the social partners. That's why, in this case, we stand as we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130241	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130244	I have great respect for the will of the Conservative People's Party to make independent decisions, of course that is the case. It wasn't because I was trying to imply anything else. But it's still a break with conservative tradition in this area. The Conservative People's Party has guarded in many ways that there are contractual models, and here we have the situation that, because of the Supreme Court ruling of February, it is being undermined that there are proper pay and working conditions. Is it not a matter of concern to a conservative that we now have a situation in which, for example, we have a situation? can have drivers who are purely commission-paid?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130325	What concerns me as a Conservative rapporteur is that we depart from the Danish model where we leave it up to the social partners to make this type of agreement. That is why we do not want Parliament's legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130339	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130342	One might almost get the impression that this bill is almost a kind of agreement that we are in the process of entering into on behalf of the social partners. There is absolutely no question of that, on the contrary. In other words, the whole area of road transport, whether it be freight transport, whether it be passenger transport in buses or taxis, is regulated, and this has been done primarily in the interests of road safety, because of course we were aware that pressured drivers, whether they drive trucks, buses or taxis, can endanger road safety. That is also why, from a legislative point of view, we have rest-time regulations. The rapporteur, like previous rapporteurs, speaks a lot about the issue of monopolies. Danish Metal organizes almost all metal workers; yes, they have monopolies, but it is the Danish model, and Dansk Metal enters into agreements with Danish Industry, and whoever else it may be, just as it takes place in the taxi area, in the road haulage sector and in the bus sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130455	I am aware that this is a very regulated area, and there may also be arguments that it should continue to be. But we don't like the narrowing that happens in relation to who it is you can draw such an agreement with, and that's why we stand as we do in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130511	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130512	However, if it is to be taken at face value, the Conservative People's Party does not in any way like the Danish model, after all, because it consists of parties to the agreement. Now I used the example of Danish Metal, which organizes virtually everything within the metal field. It is true that they have little monopoly on it; there are other trade unions which also organise metal workers, and there are also some who are disorganised, but the big picture is that Dansk Metal organises. In all areas it is the Danish model that there are trade unions and employers' organisations that dominate and enter into agreements with each other and in this way ensure peace between them, sometimes too peaceful, I would almost say conditions on the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130558	I did not hear any real question, but rather a few thoughts and a few comments, and peace be with it. We do not agree on this point. The Conservative People's Party thinks it's moving away from the Danish model where employees and employers take care of these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130617	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130619	Thank you. I have to promise that my colleague, sir... Rasmus Prehn is in the jumpla today. It's not every day you hear that, sir. Rasmus Prehn put forward the views of the employers' organizations, but that is what we heard here. Damage is just that you don't get it all in. I have here a hearing response to the legislative proposal that precedes the current legislative proposal, that of the previous government in May. It says that Dansk Arbejdsforening, Dansk Industri, Arbejdsforeningen for Transport og Logistics og Dansk Arbejds find it in principle contrary to the Danish labour market model that legislation lays down rules on who is covered by collective agreements in Denmark. In the consultations here from the same organisations, it is stated that, on this basis, they have no comment to make that by amending the law the text of the law is adjusted in such a way that it is consistent with the practice in force until 4 January 2015. Until the NORTRA judgment. That is precisely what is at the heart of the matter: the employers' organizations, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn refers to, supports the roll-back of existing practices, but the problem with this bill is that you go one step further and make further regulation. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: is this not a distortion from Mr Beazley? Rasmus Prehn's side when he's trying to put the employers' organizations in front of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130734	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen saved it just at the last second of the supplementary period, you might say, because it is to the rapporteur on the platform that you have to ask questions, not a rapporteur down in the Chamber. But then it is the rapporteur of the Conservatives to reply to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's question to Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130751	Thank you, too, to the rapporteur of the Left. I had some doubts as to whether there was a question coming to me, but that was an important point that was made. I was asked to be rapporteur on this bill last night, so it's limited how many hearings I've got to read. I have to be honest and say that. However, I think that the answer to the hearing read out very well illustrates the issues involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130814	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130817	It was almost moving to hear Mrs Mette Abildgaard speak so much about the Danish model, but I would very much like to hear the rapporteur try to describe a little more closely what makes the Danish model a model where there is no interaction with the political system. That is exactly what makes the Danish model unique. As I can hear, the rapporteur has understood a small corner of the Danish model; perhaps the rapporteur has only understood the corner of the fact that the labour market is based on agreements concluded between the parties. But the model is based just as much on the fact that there is interaction between the social partners and the political system and that we support the orderly and regulated labour market on several occasions in the political system. We do so in a number of areas: health and safety, pensions, holiday legislation. There are a number of areas where there is an interaction. So how does the rapporteur end up being so, you can almost say stubborn in relation to anything other than exactly the area of the agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130917	I understand that there is an interaction with the political level, but I think that what we are talking about in this bill is more than just an interaction. That is also what is being pointed out in the consultation answers which were read out earlier. We think this is too much interference and too much restraint, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130937	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217130938	It is therefore a sad confirmation that they were sweet words and no action. Secondly, what does the rapporteur say about the fact that just behind a door, under a pile of papers, you can find an agreement that you saw as an agreement when the whole idea of the agreements is that they have legitimacy? Without strong organisations capable of entering into legitimate agreements which, in this sense, are successful in the labour market, it simply does not make sense to talk about a Danish model. So there will be a difference between the agreements. There are all the agreements which are the benchmarking ones that represent the industry and then there are those which are pure paper agreements and which, in that sense, have no legitimacy whatsoever. That is why, now that we are dealing with an area we want to regulate, we have to start with legitimate agreements. Otherwise it'll end up in the wild west.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217131032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217131033	I am well aware of the fact that there are agreements on which there is little thought on the part of the left and which are not considered legitimate. At least that is what I am hearing from the questioner. I think it must be up to the parties to define what is a good agreement in this area, and I do not think we should interfere so much in this at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217131052	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr von der Vring's report. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217131059	Thank you. Not only as the Socialist rapporteur, but also as the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, I would like to begin by thanking the co-rapporteurs for a debate, which I believe to be very strong, committed and insightful, which is of course a characteristic of transport. It is a pleasure to be in this Chamber with a proposal that will also turn the various issues that are and have a qualified debate. So thank you for that. It has also been noted that it is a little peculiar • I even think, the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, said that he had not experienced this before the opposition put forward legislative proposals. That is absolutely right. What is usual when we are opposition parties is that we table a motion for a resolution, and then it is up to the government subsequently to correct it and to provide the legal specifications, etc. This time we were in a very special situation, for the previous government had actually worked a certain part of its body out of its pants to prepare this piece of legislation, so that there was a key proposal that was first dealt with on 6 May because it was urgent. It was a matter of urgency because, as we have heard, the rapporteur of the Left, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, the Minister, etc. state that before the judgment of the Supreme Court of February was no longer there. So the desire to get things under control again, the desire to secure the legal status that was known, there is agreement. That's why we hurried to get this clear so that we could have the first reading in May. Because we know that every day that goes by, when things are not under control, we risk, as Enhedslisten's competent rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hyllested, said that one can simply be made for the occasion invented kitchen table agreement which means that one can be paid commission or something else alone. So every day that goes by, when we do not get this cleaned up, we run the risk of a slow but secure undermining of the pay and working conditions of drivers. That's why it's important to deliver something in this area. And that is why the opposition could not live with the government just leaving days and weeks and months where nothing happened in this area. Every day you're late, it has that consequence. What is at stake here is that we go in and deliver a proposal that says that there must be a comprehensive agreement, that there must be a representative agreement, because that is what ensures that we have proper pay and working conditions. Then there are some who say: 'Well, if it isn't quite peculiar, isn't it a break with the Danish model?' Some debates have almost heard accusations that such a proposal was even state communism. There is something that needs to be borne in mind: when you have a tradition of regulating it by collective agreement, it is not because you just want such a state-approved trade union policy. No, then it's about something absolutely essential that I think everyone in this room can agree on, namely safety on the roads, that there are proper conditions that mean that we don't have drivers sitting and falling asleep behind the wheel or anything else because they're run out because of poor pay and working conditions. It is important that there is an agreement that ensures that you have drivers who can do their job so that they are not a danger to the rest of us. So when you have this very special tradition, it's about security. And there you just have to be aware that when you're not in a proposal like this, you put security to the test. Then you run the risk of having consequences when there is a driver who alone is paid commission and who takes one hour after another and works the sun black and suddenly collapses over the wheel and drives into another car for great misfortune for all of us. This is security policy. It's road safety, it's all about here, remember that. When it is the case that a great many of the organisations of interest in these areas have said, as the excellent rapporteur of the Left also referred to, that it is a good idea to return to the legal situation before the Supreme Court ruling, it is of course because you are also interested in recruiting young people who want to be drivers in the future. It's actually kind of a challenge to get young people who want to. That is why proper pay and working conditions are important, as we know in the industry, and that is why they say: let us get this straight, let us get a proposal like this. Another thing is that one is concerned with having a level playing field where there are reasonable conditions of competition so that charlatan types do not enter and undermine pay and working conditions and compete on something that jeopardises safety. This is something that is also agreed in the professional organisations, and that is why I think we should take this very seriously and try to continue working on it. We have submitted a bid which follows on from the legislative proposal which was in the Chamber on 6 May, where there was broad support. Then there were some questions and there were some suggestions and so on. But it is quite obvious that, in the context of the work of the committee, we are putting it in place and that the Left or the Danish People's Party, or whoever is unable to support the proposal as it stands here, is tabling a specific amendment so that we can finish it here. What we can fear from the Social Democrats and from the authors of the motion is that if you just vote this proposal down, there will be days, weeks, months, perhaps even years when the government will not get its hands on it, because they are basically ideologically opposed to it or whatever it may be. We cannot be served by this because security is at stake. So we have to act now. So I would very, very much urge you to engage constructively in the work, to deliver in relation to the work of the committee and to table any amendments that might have to be tabled. Of course, we are humble as proposers. We are well aware that, when a legislative proposal has been tabled several months ago and we then table it again, some things may have arisen that need to be corrected. There may be some things that need to be looked at, and there we are humble enough to leave it to the scribes in the ministries. So if that is what we want, then we are ready to take this bill and simply go to the workshop for a legal under-car treatment in the Minister's view, so that we can ensure that we simply get a proposal that fits the wishes that may be. We are interested in working together on matters and we are interested in finding solutions. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, this is about road safety. For every day we let go where nothing happens, we run the risk of compromising security. So I would very, very much urge that we get this constructive and good cooperation that we usually have in the Committee on Transport. Then come along and let us have this adopted with the amendments that are needed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217131828	There are a few brief comments. The first person to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217131833	Thank you. Yes, then we introduced a new concept in Danish transport policy, namely a legal undercarriage treatment. I have to say that we have to save it for another occasion. I understand that the matter here is important for the Socialists and also the other authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is what we are in agreement with, and that is what has emerged from the debate here. But if it is so important for the Socialists to get a result quickly in this area, why is it that exactly the same proposal is retabled as the one we were discussing in May? After all, the debate made it clear at that time that we were parties that had problems with a number of things in this draft law, and we have had that in the debate, but why one hundred percent recycling? If you felt it was so important, why haven't the Socialists invited you to discuss it during the autumn, then it could have been that we could have done the crunches and finished it for now? Why are there no negotiations, why do you just make 100% recycling if it is so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217131927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217131928	In view of the criticisms made by the rapporteur of the Left, it might have been that we should have approached things in a different way. What we did was among other things. to send the proposal to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in order to get the Danish People's Party to play its part in the changes they might like, but it might well be that we should have contacted the rapporteur of the Left. We were concerned that some action should be taken in this area, because we know that this is a matter of safety, and then we thought that once the bill is there and we have to have it in committee, there is enough time to do this legal under-car treatment that it takes to make it fit so that everyone can agree. It is really just to push and make sure that there is some action, and I think that the Left should come in constructively and stand ready in the auditorium when we come up with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132010	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132012	I would like to sign for what I saw as an admission, namely that perhaps we could have dealt with it a little more wisely and that we could actually have talked to the Left as well. It's fine, you talk to the Danish People's Party, it's always good. I would like to sign for the concession, and perhaps we can do better some other time, because I think the people are actually interested in us making some results across the blocs, rather than putting ourselves on hold in some blocked blocks. The rapporteur then said that this has a lot to do with safety, that it was road safety and so on, and we all agree that there must be safety, especially when there are large vehicles and things like that. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Prehn about something when he relates it to the agreements: Where is it that security is regulated? Is it in the agreements, or is it being run-rest time and that sort of thing regulated in a very special set of rules at EU level that has nothing to do with agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132100	Exactly with regard to driving rest time, the rapporteur is right about it being regulated elsewhere. But the fact that you have tolerable pay and working conditions so that you do not sit and fall asleep behind the wheel because you are exhausted and because you have to earn money on commission alone is something that is regulated in the agreement, and that has something to do with certainty. And then, with regard to the cooperation and admitting errors, I would say that we Socialists are very humble; we are prepared to learn from things and to do it in a different way. I just think that we are inviting committee work here, and that is where the Left can come up with its proposals, and then we can get the legislative proposal as it should be, so that we can resolve it here instead of postponing it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132142	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132143	The flourishing language of the Socialist rapporteur does not deny himself. It's a pleasure to sit here and listen to sir. Rasmus Prehn, when he's on Parliament's platform. With regard to the question of the state of law raised by the rapporteur, and where he has just taken up the right's view of what was the state of law before and after the Supreme Court ruling, I would like to ask whether it is not precisely the case that this draft law means a firm return to the state of law before the Supreme Court ruling. So it is the Supreme Court ruling that has totally changed the legal situation in the country in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132228	It is precisely cut out by Enhedslisten's rapporteur what this is all about. It is simply because the Supreme Court ruling means that the curtain has been pulled away under the tradition that has been practiced in this area for having arranged conditions. As long as we do not intervene, we will have a slow but secure undermining of the labour market here, which can go beyond safety. And it is absolutely right that the bill will ensure a return to the legal situation that existed before the Supreme Court ruling.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132302	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132303	Then the bourgeois parties in this debate have done a great deal to challenge exactly the concept of representative social partners, and I understand that if you can find a different wording, there are apparently positive expressions all around. Now perhaps the Socialist rapporteur is not the right one to ask, but if you would imagine a name other than representative social partners, what would you do? What is the Socialist rapporteur's position on this? It may be a little unfair to ask him, because I should have asked the others, but I haven't had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132345	When we have formulated what we have with the word representative, it is of course because we have been very concerned to ensure that it was an agreement that meant proper, secure working conditions and not a casual agreement that was negotiated over the kitchen table or out in the back room or something like that. I am aware that for example. Danske Busvognmænd and Dansk Industri have sat out in the scenes and done some exercises, in relation to whether you could formulate it here in some way and where they operate with a LO agreement or another agreement that is just as good or better. I think it would be appropriate to bring such proposals into the committee room and then see if this could not be the sort of thing we could land on. We are interested in reaching a solution because it is so important, but we will not compromise on the quality of this, so we risk undermining pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132442	No one else has asked for brief comments on the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rasmus Prehn, which is why I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor at all, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building, and if no one objects to it, then I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132508	The debate is now open. I give the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217132534	Thank you. The Enhedslisten, together with the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, has tabled a motion for a resolution to abolish the area reservations in what is called the Ring 5 transport corridor. The proposers believe that the government should abolish the area reservations and definitively abandon the plans for a Ring 5 motorway. Their justification for the abolition must be found in the genes that they believe the citizens and authorities of the municipalities concerned are experiencing, as well as in the potential environmental damage that a possible future Ring 5 may cause. I understand the purpose of the proposal. After all, it is no secret that a Ring 5 road link can pose significant challenges, including environmental ones. There's no need to hide that. I also understand that as a citizen with property in the corridor or as a municipality with a desire for business development in the reserved areas, for example, you can sometimes be tired of the corridor. That said, area reservations exist for a reason. The transport corridor is now an old acquaintance. The position of the corridor has been known for some 40 years. And as early as 1973, problems were anticipated in bringing out new main roads, railways and wiring systems in a metropolitan region with extensive urban development and urban development interests. And the challenges I think we can all agree on haven't diminished since the 1970s. So with the transport corridor we have maintained the possibility of establishing a new ring link, which would probably be impossible without it. In 2010, the then Minister for the Environment, Karen Ellemann, set up a committee to review the transport corridors and, in this context, an estimate was made of the cost of expropriation if the transport corridors were removed and yet later decided to build a road link in the transport corridors. The Committee's report estimated additional costs for an expropriation of 20 billion. kr. It is an amount that would in practice make it impossible to establish a Ring 5 in the current transport corridor. There are already congestion problems on state roads in the metropolitan area and it is to be expected that traffic on the main ring links will continue to increase. Traffic in and around Copenhagen is extensive, and in many places the capacity limit has been reached. Already today, a lot of time is being wasted in queues in the metropolitan area. This reduces mobility and hinders growth in society. The potential to expand the capacity of existing ring links is very limited. The emergency tracks on Motorway 3 could be included and used as tramlines, and Ring 4 could be extended to four tracks between the Ballerup and Hillerød motorway and some capacity extensions could be carried out on route 6. The capacity of ring connections is therefore crucial for the development and dismantling of traffic. If the ring links across the major entrance routes to Copenhagen do not have the capacity to cope with the increase in traffic in the future, this will have implications for the further expansion of motorway links towards Copenhagen. In short, it makes no sense to extend the Fredrikssund motorway, the Helsingør motorway and the Hillerød motorway, as I know there is a desire from many quarters if the cross-cutting links cannot handle the increase in traffic. There is much to suggest that we are on our way out of the crisis. Traffic has increased in recent years and road traffic is increasingly concentrated on the major roads of the state. In fact, developments over the last 10 years show that traffic on motorways has increased by 37 per cent, while total traffic has only increased by 10 per cent. So continued growth in society will mean that traffic will continue to increase and that the road network in the metropolitan area will be put further under pressure. It is of course important that we develop, and I would also like to help create the best possible conditions for our business community. I also know that several municipalities want new business areas in the corridor. But the fact is that the congestion is already great in the metropolitan area, and in the long term, therefore, we do not help business by putting them in a future traffical hopeless situation with even more congestion and long transport time. It's not good for the bottom line. Although in many ways I can sympathise with the proposal, I do not believe that we can adopt it in this form if we do not know the consequences. We should not drop the area reservations without examining the situation in which we will find ourselves. Conversely, there is no reason to maintain reservations where infrastructure will obviously never be built. We therefore need to look at the possibilities, including whether there are transport alternatives and whether restrictions can be made on all or part of critical sections. As you know, we have limited funding for new infrastructure projects right now. However, you should be careful about dropping area reservations just because in the short or medium term there is no prospect of a Ring 5, especially when the traffic needs are so clearly present. My message is therefore that we should think carefully before possibly abolishing or restricting the transport corridor. I would therefore like to have a substantive discussion on the possibilities for developing the road infrastructure in the metropolitan area, with and without the area reservations in the transport corridor, ahead of a final position. So, although the government is unable to support the resolution as it stands at the moment, we can support the fact that we have examined the traffic alternatives for the development of the road infrastructure in the metropolitan area, so that, in this context, we can decide to drop, restrict or completely move the current reservations. So I also hope that the authors of the motion will be satisfied with the speech I am making, but at the same time, of course, also with the reservation that I think it is a good idea to have solid ground under your feet before starting to make such choices, which can have a tremendous impact on the future that is coming and on the generations that are going to be here. That's why I'm just asking that it might be a solution we could work out together. I would like to add both the ministry and the rooms so that we can do it over with me, where we can all be, and then we could try to figure out a way to do it. As I said, I understand that you can have concerns. I also understand the intention. I just think it is important that we try to find a solution to something that goes so far and that we might all agree in the Folketing. In any case, I think that the attempt should be made. Then we will have to find out afterwards if we were not able to do so. But I think we should give it a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133336	There are a few brief comments for the time being, and the first is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133341	Thank you very much for the small openness I am experiencing from the Minister. However, I would like to emphasise that these area reservations have been there for 40 years. For 40 years we have kept people living in the transport corridor in ignorance and uncertainty about what their future would be. Time has certainly run from a motorway project across North Zealand to Køge and across some of North Zealand's most valuable nature such as Natura 2000 sites and UNESCO World Heritage, that is what we are talking about here. So, although I fully agree with the Minister that we need to solve the problems of congestion, I do not think that this should in any way prevent us in the Folketing from fulfilling that responsibility and abolishing the land reservations and setting these people free and recognising that this nature must of course be protected and adopting this resolution. And then we will be happy to take part in meetings with the Minister on how to solve the problems of congestion. I would like to point out in all peace that the Minister for Finance has been elected in Northern Zealand and that he has supported exactly what is stated in this motion for a resolution. How are the voters in North Zealand to interpret this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133509	As I heard, there were no questions for me, but a question that one wants to ask in connection with an election campaign that has been going on. Well, all I can say is that the interpretation of my speech I cannot recognize at all. On the contrary, I did not say at any time when I was giving my speech and reading what I wanted to say at all that it could not be a solution. I am just saying that we do not know the basis on which it should be done, and we can have a disagreement on that, but it has nothing to do with someone not standing by what they have said. That's what you do, isn't it? I am quite aware that this could have been investigated so many times. Now it is today that it is being brought forward, and so it is today that there is also an outstretched hand, and that is an innovation in this situation. We have to say, without having to be polemical about it, that you have had time to raise these proposals, and I think we are just welcoming.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133611	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133613	Then I would like to thank you for the courtesy and openness I experienced from the Minister, but I still think we have to regard these two things as separate phenomena. We have a transport corridor and a motorway project that is so outdated, and then we have some congestion problems to solve. We are very happy to contribute to solving the problems of distress. We are very happy to contribute to discussing how to make the coast track work better and how to build the infrastructure with light rails so that you can take the pressure off our roads. But whatever solutions we get at stake, Call 5 will never be an acceptable solution, and I think that is what the Ministry of Finance has supported, and that is what I am also looking for from the Minister of Transport today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133659	I hear that the Enhedslisten would very much like to discuss and come to a meeting, but they just do not want to talk about what I am going to say, and I have to say that. Because I am talking about this motion for a resolution and the conditions for it, and I understand from the rapporteur that you say that you have studied yourself, and that is why that resolution and that basis are clear, and that is just what I do not agree with. And then I think we can meet, but it will be difficult if we do not want to meet and talk about what the proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133731	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133733	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for the approach he took in his speech. Of course we had hoped most that the Minister would stand up and say that this resolution was supported, but it should not be so. I'd like to ask you something. The minister, like me, is from a bourgeois party, and we respect private property and actually care quite a bit about the right of citizens to own property, and now this area reservation has been there for 40 years, so there have been considerable limitations in relation to the citizen's ability to manage his own property. I would like to hear from the Minister how long, in principle, he thinks it is possible to maintain such an area reservation here, which so restricts private trading on his own property.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133826	It is, of course, a big and good question, but we are in fact discussing sometimes that it can be worse in itself if, for example, we are discussing it. are subject to any expropriation, such as: well can lock people completely for both 4, 5, 8, 10 and 12 years. So I'm very concerned about it. As far as this is concerned, we can say that it has been there for so long that we are all aware of it, because it has been there for 40 years, but that is why it is a good question that the rapporteur has there, and that is why I extend my hand to trying to do something together. For no, I certainly do not think it is wise that reservations should be for so many years and then prevent people from being able to develop their property. So we actually agree entirely with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133909	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133911	Thank you. I'm actually glad to hear the thoughts you've had in relation to this question here. Following that, I want to hear from the Minister if you see what can be said that Call 5 is being realized in your lifetime, and would you think it's fair to maintain the area reservation if you don't?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133931	I would remind the questioner that we do not use the duform in the Folketing; it actually fell four times. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217133939	I respect that too, even though it was really nice. But let me put it this way to Mrs Mette Abildgaard: I mean, frankly, I do not know, and that is why I think we should look into it. Because I don't really know. But at least I was touched by it when I read the motion for a resolution tabled by the motion for a resolution, because I thought there were some points in what I could easily understand, and that is why I think it is important that we try to have this examined. And that is why I still believe that, with the rapporteur's approach to it, we can find a compromise in trying to do something that can at least map out the possibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134019	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134021	On behalf of the Social Democrats, I should like to begin by commending the Minister for this constructive approach. Now we were a little after the minister in connection with the previous proposal, but here I think there is a good style in relation to listening to what actually comes in the proposal, but without just falling on its tail. Because there are also some challenges in that, and I would like to ask something about that. If we imagine that this reservation will be cancelled, and it turns out in a number of years' time, and I think it will be within the Minister's lifetime, because the minister is still very young and has a long life ahead of him, that you will need to expand traffic, wouldn't you risk hitting some people who haven't had 42 years to get used to a reservation and who suddenly gets pulled something over their heads they hadn't even heard about when they bought the house? Because if there is a reservation, the advantage is that those who have bought something have bought it while it has been bent in the neon, that here is a reservation, so you risk something. In other words, is it not possible to make the damage even worse by hitting some people who had no idea that there was suddenly going to be a road or a railroad or something there? I would like to hear the Minister's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134126	This is among other things. one of the advantages of being Minister for Transport, that someone always takes such good care of you, that is, the rapporteurs are very concerned about how you feel and how you feel, and I like that now. But I would just like to say that that is a very clear point, Mr President. Rasmus Prehn has here, that is, if there is a reservation when you buy something, then you also know what you are buying. It's actually worse for those people who can risk buying something and then afterwards experience that there might be something here, and then you get into an expropriation. So that's why there's also on one side and on the other side. So, on the one hand, that is absolutely right and, on the other hand, I would like to say that we should not have more reservations than we need. That is why I think that such a thing is good for being looked through, and that is why we intend to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134212	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134214	Once again, we also agree that you have to look at this, and if there are fantastic nature areas where there is a reservation, and that is not something you will need, then of course you have to look at it. But if there is a need for alternative lines, how much is there really possible? As far as I am aware, this area is fairly densely constructed and it is quite limited where it is possible to lay down these lines if the current one is abolished. Can the Minister mention alternatives where that might make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134243	No, I'd be in a lot of trouble with that, but I actually agree with Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn. I see, for example. We would like to do more on the Elsinore motorway, to get started on the Hillerød motorway, and to have the Frederikssund motorway completed, and it is clear that there is an increase in relation to both industry and housing, i.e. ordinary farmhouses and rentals etc., so we know that we need to be able to dismantle that traffic. So this work should also be able to tell us at the same time whether there are alternatives, and if there are, how much they can replace the reservations that are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134319	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134320	I hear a little that the Minister of Transport is trying to kick the proposal, the problem to the corner, with reference to that we must have clarified, we must have looked at that and so on. I just want to ask, isn't there already a whole series of analyses of this Rings 5 and 51⁄2 and 6? It can't be that after 40 years of reservations, no qualified analysis has been made of what this will mean, what it should look like, etc. etc. Can the Minister of Transport tell Things about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134406	But there are several different analyses, among others. the one I mentioned here myself, which Mrs Karen Ellemann had previously set in motion. So there are analyses and assessments, etc. What is crucial is that most people were not able to see how the Copenhagen area would develop 40 years ago. Few people could see the increase we wanted in traffic 40 years ago when we said 2015. It tells us quite clearly that if we think that you can just predict that this is how things are going to go, then it is not going to last. That is why we have to go into this, and when I say that we have to get much better into it, it is because I believe that there will also be some land that will be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134455	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134457	Yes, but development and planning, you might say, goes hand in hand. In other words, the development you want or do not want can be planned either into or out of it. That is the purpose of analyses, for example. Call 5. Are we gonna use it, or are we not gonna use it? Now it has not been used for 40 years, and, as the Minister now confirms, we are not on the brink of analysing the area. That is why I think it was probably time to make the decision. And of course: Enhedslisten has made a very good proposal with others, so why not bite to fuck now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134534	Well, I'll be happy when I hear the speech that's in here. It is only, I think, the experience that I have, having been allowed to be in here for 21 years, that makes me know that one has to listen a little between the lines. Because I think this is also a little bit about how much you really want to do, for example. to have motorways, to the extent that you want the planning and development that is taking place in some places. So I think it's more interconnected, and now, hopefully, we're doing a study that maps everything, and then we're ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134606	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134608	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by saying that I think it is quite good that we have the consequences of the traffic development that is in the capital before we have to make a decision of this nature. But if you ask the citizens who are experiencing the consequences of traffic development, then I think they want decisions like the one we are discussing here whether we should at all make. I would like to try to hear the Minister, and hence the government, with what seriousness you are actually looking at the traffic developments, for example. in the surroundings of Copenhagen. If you look at Ring 3, for example, I think the figures show that transversal traffic has increased by 40%. within the last 10 years. At some point there can be no more cars on these tracks, and so it's not far to the room windows, I should say hello. People can't open the windows for just noise. Therefore, I would like to hear with what seriousness the government is looking at the need to establish transversal traffic solutions in this famous finger plan, which is the basic structure of the capital's traffic planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134722	I think this is a good and interesting question, which I think we will also be discussing in committee. But you could turn it over, and then you could say: if you wanted to make sure that nothing really came, that it was not really expanded anymore, then the best way was to adopt this resolution, because then it would be really difficult. Once a study has been carried out back in 2010 showing that it will cost 20 billion. kr., I think most people can figure out that with the money we have at our disposal to create infrastructure projects, it will be something, if not very, very long before anything comes. So I think the answer I can best give is that this is precisely what is behind the fact that this is the way we want to do it. That is because we are worried about not having those areas when we consider that in future we will have to make cross-border traffic solutions. And that's where we're going to have to go further than Call 3 and Call 4. They can't solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134821	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134824	I am very pleased to hear that, because it is entirely in line with the view of the Socialists that there is a need for a more serious look at the challenges that exist in the capital when it comes to the development of traffic and, above all, it is a question of planning transversal traffic so that we can spare Copenhagen and, in particular, spare Copenhagen's surroundings for the very traffic that is currently there. Then I also think that there is an important point that needs to be made. It is clear that some of the places where traffic is planned, as the Minister rightly said, want to extend the Frederikssund motorway, we want to extend the Helsingør motorway and the Hillerød motorway, but are the prerequisites for the popular not to be true, so to speak, faster than quickly, precisely not for us to develop transversal traffic as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134908	It seems to me to be putting the finger right on the awkward point, because the fact is that if we were to get money for it and we could find the funding together, we could start to make some extensions of the motorway. I am thinking here of the Hillerød motorway or the completion of the Frederikssund motorway or the Helsingør motorway. And that doesn't make any sense. That is also why we, and I am glad that the Social Democrats too, should see us very well before we decide anything in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134949	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217134951	Thank you very much. I would just like to ask what the Minister said about exploratory work. Does the Minister expect this exploratory work to lead to a legislative proposal as if nothing else could reduce the transport corridor to Ring 5?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135014	I think it is wise to say that when you want to set in motion an investigative work, it is probably early to give an estimate of what it will end up with when you have not started it yet. I think it's wise to take it in that order. But I understand what the questioner is asking, if I understand it, whether something is going to happen; that it is fine that we have an investigation, but is something going to happen? I would just like to say that this is my clear position. And I would also like to say that this is going to happen in a full debate with all the parties with which I would like to discuss it, because I think it concerns us all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135051	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135053	Again, thank you very much for the Minister's entrance to it. I have one further question: will the Minister consider taking in this study the part of the transport corridor that lies northerly I am thinking specifically of the part that lies north of Elsinore to see if there is still a basis for having a traffic corridor in that area? As far as I can see, only a natural gas pipeline is planned there and there is no basis for having a motorway or a Elsinore-Helsingborg connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135139	I would say that I have not quite had it in my deliberations, but I am always happy to listen, because there are many who have good ideas about this. And those who will be involved in trying to establish a basis for how we can link up such a study will also take part in that discussion, and it is clear that we will then have the opportunity to make our wishes known. I'm gonna go a long way so we can find something we can agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135203	There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. I thank the Minister. We shall then proceed with the rapporteurs, and the first in the series of rapporteurs is Mr Cabezón Alonso. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135221	Thank you. As we have already been through well, what we are discussing is the question of the abolition of the area reservations made in connection with the establishment of Ring 5. The Socialists cannot support the resolution, and I will try to justify it here. There is no doubt, as we have already said, that in recent years there has been a marked increase in traffic, not least in the metropolitan area, and there is no indication that this development will reverse. This means that if we do not, for example, make better transversal traffic around the capital, more and more citizens and families will experience plagues such as noise, smog, us, car queues morning, noon and evening. They'll do that when they look out their living room windows. It will be totally impossible for many of them to sit, as most do, with open room windows and relax. This is not possible in many of these places, and that is why we need a new transport solution for the capital, and it must also establish a Ring 5 from the point of view of the Social Democrats. We understand that this is a big decision. We think it is important, as I said, and that is why we also think it is important that we examine alternatives to it. As the Minister said, the Socialists support the possibility of looking at how the transport corridor, for which area bookings have been made, can be developed and possibly reduced. We would also like to be involved in investigating, one might say, the infrastructure around it, which the Minister is also proposing. However, for the Socialists, it is important that we have a capital where there is a link in traffic. Although we live together a lot of people, there is also a lot of transport that has to be done every day. It is families that have to go to and from work, it is business that has to go to and from jobs. We need to make that work. And when we live a lot of people together and in most places a lot of people on top of each other, there are a lot of people who have to be transported. If you do not want everything to be true inside Copenhagen, you have to discuss how to get a great deal of it around Copenhagen, and that is where this issue is central. This needs to be thoroughly investigated, but there should also be no doubt that if developments continue as they have been over the past 10, 15, 20 years, it will only go one way, and it is even more traffic, and that is even greater nuisance for the many people who live in and around our capital. That is why the Socialists cannot support the resolution, but we are, of course, fully aware that it is a major and serious decision, and that is why, of course, it is also a decision on which there must be a proper and thorough analytical basis before we take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135529	There are a few brief comments to be made to the Socialist rapporteur. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135534	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I'd like to sign for the speech. It was not unexpected because I would say that, unlike all the other parties, the Socialists have been very honest, including in the election campaigns that have taken place, among others. in Nordsjælland, and said openly that they could sort of see Ring 5 realized. So I think it is fine that there is agreement between what you say in an election campaign and what you then say afterwards. I would just like to say that I think it is a strange approach to the future of traffic challenges that it is appropriate to slam asphalt across a lot of natural areas, that it is considered that the traffic challenges need to be solved by driving even more cars on the roads. Sometimes it is as if certain rapporteurs from the Socialists are not aware that we are also facing climate change, that there are other things that need to be resolved, that we are hopelessly lagging behind in achieving nature and biodiversity objectives, so that it is not appropriate to destroy UNESCO's world heritage or Natura 2000 sites. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur: with the many, many billions that it will cost to make this motorway, does the rapporteur think that this is an appropriate way of spending money if we are to solve the congestion challenges for North Zealand, the West and the metropolitan area at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135657	It is absolutely certain that it is not just about new roads and new roads. It is clear that at some point there can be no more roads, and that is why it is not the whole answer, it is part of the answer. Investment must be made in public transport, investment must be made in the development of metro projects to be invested in improvements to the S-train network, the bus issue is constantly being discussed and stembus systems, and even for the first time in 25 years the region has managed to get the first, hopefully the largest infrastructure investment with an easy track, which is also a new, good project. So there are many elements that need to be included in it, but I just think that writing off in advance, as I sense Enhedslisten always does, asphalt as part of the solution, I think I might get the answer to limping quite a bit. So the Socialists see all these components as something that should help solve the problems that I hope we agree on there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135803	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135805	We agree on that. But it is the case that sometimes you have to prioritize. I don't think we have the means to do it all. If we then look at where a Ring 5 motorway is on the list of priorities, in relation to what is appropriate to solve congestion challenges and traffic challenges at all, and if we then come to the conclusion that a Ring 5 to a two-digit billion amount is very, very low on the list, I think it would be very sensible if we could agree to drop that motorway for the sake of nature and for the sake of the real, very many citizens so affected and for decades have been so affected by these land reservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135853	It is not a view that the Socialists share, i.e. that a Ring 5 is very, very low on the list, as was said. If you look at the traffic development of the capital in the years to come, I think that the development seen over the last ten years of growth in cross-border traffic can easily develop even more strongly. Therefore, there is a need to find an answer to make cross-border traffic flow better and easier, and it is seen with social democratic spectacles a question of establishing something for cross-border traffic, and there is a ring 5 that there has also been political agreement in the local area. It is true that there have been area reservations for a long time, but it is of course area reservations which have been there since the early 1970s and which people have also been prepared for.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135952	Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217135954	Thank you to the President-in-Office and I shall try this time to avoid direct indictment. I would like to ask you about these natural areas, which the rapporteur mentions Ring 5 runs through the Natura 2000 area, UNESCO World Heritage, many protected, beautiful natural areas. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether there is anything sacred about establishing motorways, if there are no areas that should not be restricted for the sake of this. I am well aware that the nature areas mentioned may not be in the rapporteur's own constituency, but I would nevertheless like to ask whether it is worth sacrificing nature, which has otherwise been assessed as a world heritage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140049	There is very good nature in the Rødovre district, and the questioner is welcome to come by so we can look at it. It is not to neglect it, but when you plan infrastructure, it has to be done in relation to us all being here, and that is why the Minister very wisely suggests that you do a broader study on this issue, and it would be quite natural for you to include it here too. But I just think, and do not misunderstand, that there is something in the question that is not really connected. So, on the one hand you do not want Ring 5, but on the other hand you would like to have expanded, I understand, the Frederikssund motorway, and the Social Democrats agree with that in the Hillerød motorway, the Helsingør motorway, and we have just heard the Minister say that if you do not combine it at the same time with strengthening cross-border traffic, then it is true of something more than. Then you just end up magnifying the problems that this resolution will try to prevent, and that is what I do not really understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140144	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140146	Now that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party believe that Ring 5 should be there, I would like to know whether that is something that has been included in their economic plans. It's a pretty high price that's for this. Did you take the initiative when you had the Transport Minister's post? I would also like to hear how long the rapporteur thinks it is possible to justify maintaining an area reservation. Can you do that forever?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140211	So, I can say that, so far, it has been area reservations that have been in place for quite a number of years, and I think that the dilemma is exactly what Mr. Rasmus Prehn asked the minister, namely, that if you repeal these rules and reservations and then find out that there is indeed a need to set up a transversal road around Copenhagen at some point, you have to make new area reservations. Then it just creates uncertainty for even more families plus the fact that the price of that kind of price would have to be understood by the Minister if you were to build a Ring 5, that would be 20 billion. kr. including these area reservations. On the question of the coherence of the economy, I think that we should perhaps also raise some questions with the questioner and, above all, with the author's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140259	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140312	After all, it is a great day: many new faces, many new rapporteurs in the transport sector. It's a popular area... new alliances, a fine local political alliance here between the Enhedslisten, Radical Left and the Conservatives. It ranges from a party that has a fascination with bicycle paths and a disgust for highways and to a party that I know is very fond of highways and they were, at least when they had a conservative transport minister. So that's actually a pretty funny suggestion. But when we're done with that part of it, I would like to say that in the Danish People's Party we also take this seriously in relation to the reservations in North Zealand. But we are completely in line with the Minister when he says that if we are going to get rid of something, preserve something, postpone something, we must do so on a truly enlightened basis, and that is why we fully support the idea of drawing up a report on this proposal and then setting up a committee to analyse this area in greater detail. We think that would be a very good thing to do. We are fully aware that, of course, there are citizens who feel trapped, but I also think it is a rather funny discussion, because industry would like to develop something more, you would like to have these reservations away, but you could try to imagine if they hadn't been there, because at the same time you talk about the beautiful nature. But the beautiful nature is there because the land has remained untouched. If they had not been reserved, there would have been industry there, because the industry would have liked to. So I think it's kind of a weird discussion we're having. What concerns me as transport rapporteur is that throughout the country, including Northern Zealand, we have the opportunity to develop our infrastructure in a way that can solve the congestion problems we will be faced with on an ongoing basis. And that's really what's bothering me. However, it is clear that areas in North Zealand, about which we can say that this has no time on earth, there will never be a road here; there will be no place at all for us to have reserved either. I very much agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. But just to take the big black marker and say that now you delete all the reservations, we are not ready for in the Danish People's Party, but we have a positive approach to looking at the analysis work that hopefully will be started now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140540	There are a few brief comments. Sir. Martin Lidegaard is the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140545	Sorry for the delay. Unfortunately, we've become a relatively small party, so I don't usually be the first to ask. I have to say frankly that I really find it hard to understand that the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal, for the simple reason that I spent quite a few hours during the parliamentary election campaign we had here in June to tour around with, among other things. The Danish People's Party and discuss this very question because there are so many voters, so many citizens, in North Zealand, who are squeezed by the area reservations. There I got the clear understanding that it was something that the Danish People's Party could support. So I am simply very surprised that you do not stand by the promises you made during the election campaign, but we will just have to take that into the next election campaign. Having said that, I understand that we are facing a classic dilemma here. We have some, if you say, social challenges we would like to solve, but we also have one consideration to take to some citizens who are stuck in a situation, which in some way violates my legal awareness, at least if for 40 years society has not made use of those land reservations. What does it take to make the Danish People's Party change its mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140701	Now come mr. Martin Lidegaard a little late into the process here, but then enough time to hear my rapporteur's speech if he was not busy talking elsewhere. I can see that this is something that is a bit of an election campaign in, and it seems to be going on. I have said in the press and some of my colleagues have said in the election campaign that we would very much like to take a look at these area reservations. I have said this in my rapporteur's speech, but I just do not want to support a proposal that removes all the area reservations in the Ring 5 corridor with a stroke of pens. Because there may be places where we need to have those reservations in the future to solve some infrastructure problems, and I just want us to get that through analysis. Then there are guaranteed places where we are very, very positive about deleting those reservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140749	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140751	That is fair enough, and I think the Minister has actually raised his hand with his remarks. I am, frankly, just worried about whether this is going to be a jelly jar and that we are going to wait another 10 or 20 years before we get clarification. Will the Danish People's Party not help to guarantee today that before the next parliamentary elections we will have a clarification on this and that DF will support the proposal if we do not have it? I think it would be a fair hand to give, so that this will not be something that just goes on and on. Then we will have a clarification before the next parliamentary elections, and then I will also be free to go and make life miserable for the Danish People's Party in the next election campaign. I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140829	Well, I'd really like to save the next election, because if you can have it in the house already at this time... there's hopefully a long time for the election... then of course that's good. Then we do not need to concentrate so much on North Zealand, because Martin Lidegaard has saved it for us. But yes, I'd like to make the promise that we need to find a solution to this. I very much agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution, but I do not agree with the way in which this is done. So if we can agree that now we're letting the minister start an analysis work, I suppose it could take six months?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140913	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217140916	The Danish People's Party has consistently and unreservedly expressed its support for the removal of Ring 5. They have done so in the election campaign, they have done so in writing, in e-mails, in statements to the association called No to Call 5. Mrs. Pia Adelsteen has promised to work for this. She promised to take it up with the former Minister for the Environment, Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl, but as she wrote, nothing will happen until after an election in relation to removing this understanding that something will happen when the election has been there. It has now. Then we hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party standing and having fun at this proposal... it was a fun bill and a strange alliance... as if you had never considered it here. Sir. Kim Christiansen himself has promised the citizens of North Zealand to take up this matter with the Transport Minister. The rapporteur, who is standing on the platform right now, has promised the citizens of North Zealand to work actively on this issue. It is then another example of hypocrisy and electoral deception that gradually gets into the slipstream of a rather large portfolio from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141037	Well, I could say that it was extremely poor hearing in the questioner, because apparently it has not gone into the board at all what I have been saying up here. Now the rapporteur says I should have agreed to remove Ring 5 • Call 5 does not exist but if we are talking about the area reservations in Ring 5, we have said that yes, we would like to take a look at that. Pia Adelsteen, whom I know quite well, who has been elected in North Zealand and who is our current environmental rapporteur, also said in the election campaign, and I am quite sure that she will also have a positive approach to that. That's what I'm actually signalling. We just want to do it on an enlightened basis. I hope Enhedslisten doesn't mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141118	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141119	During the election campaign Mrs Pia Adelsteen has written to the Society No to Ring 5 that Dansk Folkeparti has put Ring 5 completely dead. How exactly does the rapporteur expect the people of Northern Zealand to interpret this if we do not vote in favour of a resolution aimed at putting Ring 5 to death? I would like a serious answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141149	To the end: I always answer seriously and to the best of my ability, and we can't do much more. Well, I'll interpret that in that way, just as it's written, that Ring 5 is dead. I have said this on several occasions when we have had HH conferences. That's where I said call 5 is in my optics is dead. But that is not the same thing as going in and removing all the reservations in that trace, because then perhaps we will also be blocking the extension of some other sections. That is just my point: if we want something with a Hillerød motorway extension, if we want something with other road projects in North Zealand, then at some point we can cross the Ring 5-traceet, and then it would be a shame if we had removed all the reservations. It's just the analysis work I'd like to wait for. But I would like to confirm that Ring 5 is completely dead in the Danish People's Party's optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141239	The next in the line of questioners is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141243	Thank you. I must admit that I am also somewhat surprised by the rapporteur on this matter. I have read an article in the Engineer from 8 March 2014 and there is a quote from the rapporteur: the Arealers must be released • I repeat, the Arealers must be released. Call 5 plants cause too many problems in relation to the nature of Nordsjælland. ▪ Since the position is so clear that the land must be released, why do you say yes to the jam pot that the government has now offered? An analysis is fine, but since the position is clear, I do have some doubts as to what kind of answers the rapporteur is going to get from the analysis that the Left is proposing when the land is to be released.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141333	In relation to jelly jar, I can reassure Mette Abildgaard that the position is so clear, so we will make sure that it does not become a jelly jar. I see it as a serious input from the Minister of Transport to analyse this so that we can all, including Mette Abildgaard, decide on an enlightened basis. I stand by everything I say to the press, and I think that much of these reservations are no longer current, and so we would like to take a look at it, and we hope this analysis work will be able to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141407	One should remember that it is called Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141412	Thank you. I am very pleased with the rapporteur's reply that it should not be a jar of jelly. The rapporteur himself said that 6 months of time could be spent on such an analysis. Sir. Martin Lidegaard asked if Mr. Kim Christiansen could make a promise in relation to the next parliamentary term. I am pleased that the rapporteur did so, but there is no reason why we should take so long, so I would like to hear the rapporteur about something: if we now put this proposal back to Christmas next year, then there has been plenty of time for an analysis, and could we not make the same agreement with the rapporteur in relation to that timetable?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141441	Yes, we can do that, I would say to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, but I didn't mean for it to be as long as next Christmas. I hope that this work of analysis, which the Minister is now setting in motion perhaps during the spring, will make us a little wiser and that we will then be able to discuss this very important matter here. So I hope we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141500	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141502	Now I saw such a rather tight and brittle atmosphere developing here in the midst of the sweet Christmas season and the rapporteur being accused of hypocrisy and all sorts of things in the world. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that it is possible to have a situation in which some of the challenges that are in North Zealand can be addressed without simply abolishing the area reservations today with this proposal, but by doing a study and simply going to the bottom of this before lifting anything without knowing what the consequences are. In other words, can there not easily be a connection in it when you say: we are happy to look at the challenges there are, but there must be another study?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141541	That's the whole point of this. As I have repeated several times, we are very positive about looking at these reservations, but it would perhaps also be a rather awkward act to go out today and with a stroke of pen delete it all with this motion for a resolution and give some firm false hopes to a number of citizens and then suddenly come and say: it was a mistake we made, because now we would very much like to expand this road because it is all true. That's why I think it's fine that we get that analysis work now and that we get cut completely into the leg and get a look at what kind of reservations we can throw away, what we need, or what we might need in the next few years, and hopefully not with a new 40-year horizon.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141619	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141621	I very much agree with this: you have to be very careful about making such snapshot solutions in connection with something that may have such major consequences. When we work on the Transport Committee and are on study trips around, the motto is that we should be better at long-term planning, that we should be better at wearing the long light so that we know what is kind of challenges. Can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not confirm that it is a good starting point to have area reservations and other things that make you have something to control and that if you have to change it, it is a good idea to think very carefully about?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141659-2	Yes, I can confirm that. We, who have been dealing with infrastructure for several years now, know that nothing happens overnight when it comes to road construction. It is often a slow process. But at the same time, I would say that 40 years is a long time to have some reservations, and that is why I am very sympathetic to this proposal. And I would like to congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution on bringing this up, because otherwise perhaps we could have gone further before we had discussed it. So I'm actually really glad that we're getting it up and getting this analysis going.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141734	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141735	I think it is a very large sum if you are going to spend 20 billion. kr. only for the expropriation of land to build a new motorway in the North Zealand. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: if, after these analyses, we now come to the conclusion that it turns out that we can solve current and future congestion problems in the North Zealand by expanding public transport and by other measures, can we expect the Danish People's Party to vote in favour of this proposal which abolishes land reservations for a new motorway?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141816	Well, I don't think we're gonna get into a situation where we can cancel all these reservations, because there's gonna be future infrastructure that will cross some of those reservations. So I don't think we're going to get into a scenario where we can plan it all for nature parks and bicycle and walkways that Enhedslisten might want. But I will help to cancel the reservations where we can say for sure: here we can leave it to pristine nature, or we can use it for other purposes, because here there is no road, there is no easy road, there is no railroad or anything else. So I will certainly make that promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141857	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141858	I think it is very important to keep what is promised during an election campaign, because otherwise we end up on the list of credibility as politicians coming down farther than used car dealers. That is why I think that when the candidates of the Danish People's Party in the North Zealand have been out to say that they will work hard for Ring 5 to be dead, then after the elections you have to live up to it. Otherwise, it is electoral deception on which one builds. I can easily see that we could have a process in which we had the cancellation of the Ring 5 reservations, but at the same time have a few places where you then have area reservations across to future light lanes etc. Is that how I should understand the rapporteur's first speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217141942-2	Yes, it must eventually be realized. I've been very positive about looking at these area reservations. With regard to the comparison between used car dealers and politicians, I would say that there are probably stumbled vessels in both places. However, I am well aware of what my fellow Members have been saying in the election campaign, and I do not think I have said anything here today on the platform, contrary to the fact that the Danish People's Party has indicated that we will look at these reservations and remove them wherever possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142018	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142031	Thank you. After all, we are now debating a motion for a resolution aimed at abolishing the area reservation in the Ring 5 transport corridor, and this is a proposal made by a relatively new constellation in Danish policy consisting of the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Conservatives. If we adopt the proposal, we will definitely abandon the plans for a Ring 5 motorway down the Sjælland in the belt that stretches from Kokkedal to Køge. The reason for the proposal concerns the potential environmental damage caused by the possible creation of a Ring 5 and the nuisances for citizens and others in the corridor concerned and the growth that is being hampered. I welcome the fact that this debate focuses on the area reservations in Ring 5, but the Left cannot support the proposal as it stands. The Left has taken note of the limitations and inconveniences experienced by pilots, municipalities and businesses as a result of the area reservations. However, we must recognise that there are already problems of congestion on the state roads around the metropolitan area, and it is to be expected that traffic on the main ring links will continue to increase in the coming years. Most recently, the Ministry of Transport's strategic analysis for 2013 has shown that it is still increasingly necessary to focus on the conditions of cross-border traffic in the metropolitan area across the five fingers of the finger plan in order to create more capacity across the Ring connections. With the transport corridor, the possibility will be maintained. This pressure won't be less in 10-15 years' time. It is now the case with transport policy that it is long-term in its nature. These are long-term projects we are talking about, and that is why it is so important that we continue to re-elect transport policyers so that we can achieve some of them. If these land reservations are abolished and there is a desire to build a road link in the corridor later, this will mean enormous additional costs, because then you will have to expropriate massively in an entirely new area where very expensive facilities and buildings may have been built, which will then have to be demolished. So you have to include that in your assessments of this. Denmark is doing well. We are getting rid of the financial crisis and entering a period of economic growth and renewed optimism. Growth in society will inevitably mean that traffic will continue to increase and that the road network in the metropolitan area will be put under further pressure. And there I can hear the agenda of the Enhedslisten here: it is the case that under no circumstances do you want motorways. I also remember that a few years ago the Enhedslisten even put forward a proposal for a motorway moratorium here in the Folketing. So this is probably a very special agenda. But there are other possibilities in this corridor. Railborne traffic is also an option • a high-class railroad in the very long term. It is important that our investments in transport infrastructure follow as a prerequisite for growth and development throughout Denmark, including in the metropolitan area and North Zealand. It is about ensuring the necessary transport capacity so that citizens and business do not waste time and money in long queues. Here we have to think long-term, we have to think holistic. And even if the economy just now... Unfortunately, we have had a sad break in construction, and we are getting started again. There is a reason why 40 years ago this reservation was imposed on the area. This is not something that has been done to bother citizens. It's because it's been predicted that this would be a need for a cross-finger capacity in the finger plan. Against this background, the Left will look forward to a very good discussion of this proposal during the committee procedure. We hope that we can agree across the parties to land the case with a report calling on the government to launch an early clarification of the actual area needs of the Ring 5 corridor on the basis of future traffic challenges. This gives us a good and secure basis for abolishing all or part of the area reservations in force. Of course, we should not bother citizens and businesses with land reservations that prove unnecessary. To sum up, therefore, I would like to conclude that we are stretching a hand towards the proposers, but we cannot just remove such an area reservation with a snap.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142537	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142540	Thank you very much. This morning we had a major discussion in the Parliamentary Chamber about the law called L 13, which is about whether SKAT should have access to private gardens in order to control undeclared work. There was, I should like to say, a large number of members of the Left up on the huge blade over the legal certainty of the citizens, and how could one, however, give SKAT access to large construction sites on private land and thus violate the constitution and the entire private property. I have to say that it is sometimes difficult to see the proportions of the policy of the Left, because if there is something that must be perceived by the individual citizen as an abuse, then it is then if the state imposes for no reason over 40 years an area reservation that de facto ties people to where they are. That really is something that interferes with the freedom and legal certainty of the individual. So if we can just get rid of this great violin playing, when the Left stands and wants to defend this! That's fair enough. I am happy to take the outstretched hand, but does the rapporteur of the Left agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it is within about six months that we can have that analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142653	I can't set a precise deadline for that, I just know that this is something we're going to do right after New Year's, and then we're going to have momentum in this work. But now that Mr. Martin Lidegaard is fluctuating in terms of private property, etc., so there is a reason why bookings were made. It was not something that was done to annoy citizens, it was because some politicians then had an idea that there was a need for a capacity. And there's just that the position of the Left is that before we cancel the area reservation now there may be good reasons for that, and I hope that it is possible to cancel some of it, we will have to be on safe ground and be able to say with certainty that there will be no need for us to build anything here. Otherwise, I do not think it is on a responsible basis. I think so too, sir. Martin Lidegaard knows, because I have had the pleasure of being a fellow transport rapporteur with Mr. Lidegaard for many years. Sir. After all, Lidegaard knows how transport planning takes place and that it is something very long-term.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142743	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142745	I admit that it may clearly be necessary for the state and society to intervene and reserve or expropriate land if infrastructure is to be built. There's nothing unnatural about that, that's how a modern society works. What is unusual here is that even for traffic rapporteurs, it has to be said that a 40-year horizon is a long time. Forty years I don't think so, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen looks into the future in his political career I don't think so. True, the average age of politicians has risen, but still. Forty years is a little long. Will Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen does not admit that it is a little out of the ordinary that you have unused area reservations for over 40 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142826	Well, that's a long time, and that's why I understand the citizens and others who are impatient to clean up this mess. And that's exactly what we're going to do. So let us not talk away from each other, let us talk so that we can land it here in a report in committee and get on with it. That is also what the Minister has said. Because I believe that some of these area reservations can be cancelled. I'm not sure that it all can, because I think at some point some capacity will be needed across the fingers of this famous fingerboard. It may well be that someone has a lot against cars and is using the climate debate as an argument for that, but we should just bear in mind that in 20-30 years' time cars will be totally CO2 as they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142909	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217142911	Thank you. I would also like to give the Left credit for the outstretched hand. From Enhedslisten's side, we will continue to work hard to have this transport corridor closed down and abandoned, and we will also be very happy to enter into a discussion in the Ministry. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur: now that all the mayors from the municipalities of North Zealand are so strongly opposed to this transport corridor, it is probably not because they are basically opposed to motorways, but because they point out that this route is not up to date at all. It has been put through valuable nature because it then, 40 years ago, made sense because it was the cheapest. It doesn't make sense anymore. They have written to changing environmental ministers and urged that this project be abandoned, that land reservations be cancelled and Ring 5 dropped. The Finance Minister of the Left, the government's Finance Minister, who is also elected in North Zealand, has said that he wholeheartedly supports this call, which means that he wholeheartedly supports the abolition of Ring 5. Can the rapporteur understand that people are confused when the country's finance minister makes such statements in the election campaign and the rapporteur then stands on the platform today and says that that is certainly not the position of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143028	Well, I listen a lot to what mayors say and what local parliamentary candidates say around the country. There are also mayors in the vicinity of Copenhagen who have meant the opposite in this matter. And that is why it is quite the right landing that we are now making some people look at once and for all: what will be needed in the medium and long term of land for infrastructure? And then it will probably turn out that a lot of this can be released, because we shouldn't keep reservations that never need to be used. That's ridiculous. So I think it's great that we are now getting the focus on this and that once and for all we are getting the need figured out, and then we can make a decision about it. I don't know if it can be within six months or a year. I hope so, but at least in 2016, so that we can get on with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143115	Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143119	So what is the position of the Left when we come to this is that we now need to find a definitive clarification on the area reservations in Ring 5 that we now need to spend the next time taking the final decision so that the citizens who live in this transport corridor, which has been maintained and tied up for so many years, can finally get clarification. Is that how I should understand the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143146	Yes, we want to clarify what may be needed of land for future infrastructure. And I would also like to say, and there I am very much in line with the Danish People's Party, that I do not see a Ring 5 right around the corner. In any case, it is a very long-term project, firstly because we do not have the money for it, and secondly because there are other things that are more important in the short term, such as establishing the eastern ring road around Copenhagen, as mentioned in the government base. So Ring 5 is not on our wish list right now, but I do not exclude that in the long term we need to establish some more capacity across our fingers so that our capital and surroundings do not sand to in traffic. And that is why it is good that we are now getting this study so that we can clarify it and so that we can make a decision on these reservations and on what can be cancelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143230	Mette Abildgaard, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143234	Thank you. I must admit that I was somewhat confused by the rapporteur's statement, because I first heard a rapporteur's speech, which listed a large number of arguments as to why the rapporteur felt that Ring 5 was necessary in the future, but in the questions I heard the help I also sensed from the Minister, and I am glad that it came. But it leaves me a little confused about whether the rapporteur wants a Ring 5 and the rapporteur's party wants the establishment of Ring 5, not when, how and how, but whether it is a wish. Then I am also a little confused because I have found the same quote here from the Engineer on March 8, to which I referred earlier to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and the rapporteur from the Left says: "For the sake of landowners and local authorities' overall planning, we do not think it is sustainable either to maintain land reservations. The rapporteur therefore makes it very clear that it is not sustainable to maintain area reservations. How are we to understand that statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143336	Now it is the case, when you take such quotes from the press, that it is not certain that the whole story has been included, because it has always been the song I have been singing, so that we have to be on safe ground before you cancel such reservations. As I said, there is a reason why they were made, and if the Conservative question is confused, I think you should contact your own party colleague, Lars Barfod, who was actually the Minister of Transport when we launched a study on the Ring 5 corridor. That study, as I said, is what we have now. That study concludes that it cannot be ruled out forever, that a capacity will be needed, so I suggest that you read what the Conservatives have actually helped to launch themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143414	Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143416	Now I know that the Lars Barfod mentioned also has serious reservations for a Ring 5, but I would like to hear from the rapporteur how long he thinks it is possible to maintain the area reservation which has been in place for 40 years and which imposes such strict restrictions on what citizens can do on their own grounds, in line with the whole debate on private property.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143437	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen to completion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143439	Until we clarify whether or not there is a need for land, and we now have that, we will now have a look at it, and as soon as we have it clarified, we will have to get the areas that are not needed. So that's my clear answer to it, but we have to keep it up against the fact that if you drop an area reservation and you have to go out 20 years later and expropriate nice houses or other things built in a tracé, it's not lucky for people either, and it's actually a bigger interference in private property than a situation where there's a reservation that you know very well before you buy your property and that's pawned on the property, but the bottom line is: we want to get rid of the reservations that don't need.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143516	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. Next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143543	I am not going to prolong the debate. I recognize, of course, the dilemmas, which have been pointed out several times. It is not difficult to understand, but we can agree to the abolition. That's the weight bowl tip for us. We do not think it is right for so many people in an area for so long to have to live with the uncertainty it gives. So if the power of the state cannot decide in 40 years, nor in the next 10 years, and with any probability whatsoever, it will be possible to clarify, then we believe that the consideration of private property is higher. So that is something that is quite high on our list. So knowing that we are in a sea where we can argue from all sides, as I have said, the balance has fallen to the benefit of the citizens in this case. It can't be that you can stick so many people forever. So that's how it's happened to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143652	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143703	Thank you very much. Basically, the idea of area reservations is really good socio-economic. One minimises expropriation costs and one has the long light on, as has already been said. This is important in transport policy. It is important that we in society dare to take the long-term decisions that ensure the further development of society. However, the transport corridor to Ring 5 has severely limited the development potential in the area for more than 40 years, and it is time to do away with it. The infrastructure plans are changing and there is no longer a direct plan for a large ring motorway in the transport corridor to Ring 5 in the foreseeable future. These old area reservations are also problematic, as the protected nature has not been taken into account. Furthermore, the width of the corridor, even if it were to create larger infrastructure, is disproportionately large and has therefore limited urban development in many neighbouring urban areas. Of course, we want to support the protection of natural areas in the transport corridors, which, in fact, have served as a natural protection for many years. And we believe that we must examine carefully what consequences the abolition can have for the wild nature of North Zealand. We all saw that some of the protected areas which already lie in the transport corridors were expanded, if anything, if anything. We also need to focus on the fact that transport corridors are not only about motorways, but also about long-term opportunities to develop public transport. So the complete removal of the transport corridors without providing alternatives for the further development of the traffic infrastructure in North Zealand is seen as a short-term solution. We focus on the bottom line, that wise decisions are being taken in all areas, and we therefore want to ensure both the natural areas in the transport corridors and the future infrastructure possibilities. Having said that, however, we also believe that the transport corridor for Ring 5 is a relic of another era, which for 40 years now has placed considerable restrictions on the development of the area and on the right of individuals to dispose of their own property. In fact, we also want to take up another part of the transport corridor, namely the part that goes north about Elsinore. As far as we understand, the only thing planned in it is a natural gas pipeline, as there seems to be no longer the possibility of a northbound Helsingør-Helsingborg connection due to urban development on the Swedish side. So we are going to table a few amendments to this proposal, which I hope the other members of the committee will accept. This does not alter the fact that, despite these in our view, we will vote in favour of the proposal in order to untie the straitjacket in this area. We hope, as I said, that we can do this wisely and not in a hurry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217143952	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144008	Thank you very much, President. There are three good reasons why the Radical Left is a co-author of this motion for a resolution. The first is what the debate has been all about today, namely the basic legal certainty that we as a citizen of Denmark should be able to have. I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democrats when he says this is such a snapshot solution. I don't think 40 years is a snap. I think that 40 years is a very, very long time to take up land for which there is no prospect of it being used, at least not for the first five to ten years. So I don't think it's a snapshot solution. In fact, I think it is timely to press the system a little bit on the stomach in this case and ask: is it really fair to the citizens concerned to keep doing this when we have no, at least manifesto, idea that we will ever be using those lands? That's one good reason. The other good reason is that for a large part the land is very beautiful nature. It has even been discussed to build a national park in parts of the area. In fact, we have the opportunity to combine the two things and perhaps to think about abolishing the reservations together with working for a national park that really can do something in the North Zealand area. So there's also a strong nature argument. Finally, there is a third good argument, and here it is wonderful to be back among the transport policy rapporteurs; it is many years since I have had the pleasure and that is the traffic argument. For the only thing I did not quite understand in the transport investigation that the Minister gave initially was that it did not make sense to improve traffic in other areas if you did not have these area reservations. I mean, excuse me, but what's the challenge if you like. improves the Hillerød motorway, isn't that it's hard to get off in North Zealand. It's that it's hard to get rid of traffic into town. So if you are going to solve future growth problems and this will be a positive challenge for North Zealand, then it is some other types of solutions that need to be found, including for example. that the coastline works and can deliver that the collective modes of transport that we have set in motion in North Zealand are expanded and going to cross, and that the roads we have in North Zealand are expanded and improved in relation to what it is like today. I am thinking in particular of the Hillerød route, where we have an expressway which is very strained today. It makes sense. It also makes, you might say, transportal sense. But I simply do not have the imagination to imagine that in the future we are looking into with a more efficient transport sector, a more public transport sector and the extension of the metro in Copenhagen etc. Then some people have talked about having a high-speed railroad in 50 years' time and therefore had to keep the reservation. But I think that is going to go another way if it is finally the case that you think a railway from Stockholm down over Fehmarn in the future. So all in all, I also find it difficult to see traffic arguments for maintaining this area reservation, even if I try to use my imagination. But then I would like to thank you for the outstretched hand and say that we look forward to going into that work, and we are very happy that the Danish People's Party will help to put a little turbo on it. It would, of course, be nice if the Minister could confirm that it is already here on the other side of New Year that we are going to start the analysis work. There, of course, we also think that we should include the requests that have been made by citizens of the Elsinore area, who have area reservations which are not entirely linked to Ring 5 but which, as such, involve the same problems. Let's have a look at them in the same rebirth. Then you can be absolutely sure that the Radical Left will know to return to this issue and ensure that we find some answers to it and that it will not be a pickle jar. And I have a feeling that this is also true of the other co-sponsors. That is why I would just like to end by saying that we are very happy to cooperate with both the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party in this matter. It is funny that we have had such a Parliament, where you can make some constellations and also some majority, I think, which goes a little beyond what we usually do. It is healthy for democracy and it offers some opportunities that we in the Radical Left welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144445	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144448	Of course, on the socialist side, we have a great deal of respect for the Radical Left's concern for the scenic North Zealand. We might as well wish that there was an opportunity to mobilise just a little of the same commitment to the Copenhagen West region, which is suffering from congestion, particulate emissions and so on. A little balance in the accounts would be fine. I have two specific questions. Does the rapporteur see any possibility of alternative lines? The rapporteur himself says that in ten years' time we will be in a position to do something. Are there any specific alternatives so that the rapporteur can say: there can be a motorway here and there can be a railway? That's one thing. And if it is the case that a new line is chosen, does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable to come to some people who have not had the chance to plan for it and say that now you are putting the line there? It is in contrast to the people who have had 42 years to get used to there having to be a line.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144556	Now it can develop into a very big traffic discussion, but I do not see any alternative direction. I do not think we will need an alternative route either. In the transport scenario that I am looking into over the next 20 years, we have to say that there is a transport situation, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, with a car technology that will develop dramatically, also in order to ensure a much greater use of the capacity that we already have. So I think, if you're going to say it roughly, that when it comes to improving the traffic connections in the big cities, including to and from and from the West, it's just hard to expand the roads. It's also in the West, and so is when we look at Ring 3 and Ring 4 because you have such close settlements, and because you have such dense structures. That is why it is a question of making more intelligent use of the capacity you have. Fortunately, technology will help us with that. We are fully involved in both helping the West region with easy track, which I know the Socialists are also very concerned about, and we are also prepared to help with better capacity utilisation and, in the long term, probably also road pricing. But I am really more concerned that cars can be better able to use the capacity there is, and I think that in 10 to 20 years' time, we will be able to solve a great many of the congestion problems we have today. So I am actually very convinced that Ring 5 does not and does not have to become anything, while at the same time we can both grow and get a good transport in the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144722	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144723	One gets a little confused here, because the rapporteur's first speech actually said that we will not need anything for at least 10-15 years. When I ask about this, the rapporteur says that we will never use it because technology is so smart in the future that we can expand capacity somewhat more, so that cars can drive closer to each other and things like that. After all, we know that if we get self-propelled cars or cars that are GPS-controlled, they can get to drive much closer to each other. However, it is not a little fanciful to imagine that, with the speed in which traffic is developing, we can have it on the existing road network, which is already suffering from congestion. What does the Radical Left imagine? That the cars are hovering over each other, or what's the future scenario?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144807	The Radical Left imagines that there are alternatives to continuing the kind of growth in the transport sector that we have had over the last 50 years. The technologies are evolving. We will experience dramatic growth and also dramatic growth in transport, and whether or not we built three Ring 5, we would not be able to solve it in a traditional way. We're gonna make it smarter. And we do not share the analysis that the way in which we are going to solve these problems in the metropolitan area is to build more motorways, because the traffic jump that we generate is still not possible when you get into the innermost rings around the capital. So we just don't believe that it can be solved this way, and that's why we don't think it's ever built. If I have expressed myself unclearly, I am sorry, because that has always been my position.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144851	Sir. Morten Bødskov for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144853	Of course, I think this is an incredibly interesting discussion, and I share the very long scenario of the future, as Mr. Marin Lidegaard has, for how small cars should drive without being able to drive into each other, electric cars and everything else. But what is evident is that the rapporteur is opposed to the construction of more motorways around Copenhagen at all. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217144924	Well, I can put it this way that if you generate a traffic jump to the centre of Copenhagen, you haven't achieved so much, because we already have incredibly great congestion to and from Copenhagen. That is why we do not think that is the solution. Now I just mentioned one of the technologies we have in the pipeline. As Mr. Morten Bødskov wants to know, we also have a much smarter traffic management on the roads with light-signalling devices etc. 5-10 per cent capacity improvement can be obtained there. Then we'll have the cars ourselves. But, of course, we also have public transport. We have the entire shared economy, which, no matter what you think or do not think about Uber, shows that there is currently a huge development in sharing the capacity that exists. Both cars and public transport can be shared better and therefore more efficiently. It's not the kind of hallelujahippie scenario I'm out in; it's kind of reality out there. That is the way forward, and that is why I simply believe that what we need to invest in, what we need to spend our money on now, is to use the technology we already have on the way, and then to ensure that we get that growth in a smarter way than we did in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145031	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145032	So you have to understand the honourable Member of the Danish Parliament, who is elected in North Zealand, and his fundamental opposition to several motorways around the capital, so that he is also opposed to a Frederikssund motorway, an extension of the Elsinore motorway and an extension of the Hillerød motorway. Is this how I should understand the honourable Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145103	In fact, we have the view in the Radical Left that the fact that either you are in favour of the motorway or you are against is a relatively sluggish way of doing it and not quite seriously. As far as the Hillerød motorway is concerned, there is an obvious need. Nor does it make sense to have a motorway so far along the road, and then you have a section of the motorway which suddenly narrows in and there is capacity on both sides to do so. I would doubt that the Elsinore motorway makes sense on the basis of the same arguments, because there is already so much congestion when you come into town so that you do not achieve so much time saving through what you can say jumps that are coming. So we always have a sober approach. But may I remind you that all the mayors in Northern Zealand are, in this way, to drop the Ring 5. It is not me or the Radical Left or the authors of this motion who stand alone, it is the Socialists who stand quite alone with the Left, with the view that it is not a good idea to give up Ring 5.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145159	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145212	Manufacturer Ford once said: Build a new road, and the desire for more cars will grow. With more cars there will certainly be demands for more and better roads that will allow more cars. It's easy to understand Ford's interest in pushing this spiral, but for the rest of us there are other options. Denmark must be better connected, and it must be easy to get to and from workplaces and to visit each other. Of course, congestion on the road network can be alleviated by constantly building new roads and thereby contributing to manufacturer Ford's hopes that it will also lead to increased demand for cars. SF also believes that we should have a wide-ranging high-quality road network, but our focus is on investments in buses, light rails and trains, and we are concerned about the current government's priorities, which clearly move from focus on public transport to making car driving cheaper. According to the SF, there is no point in planning a motorway down through vulnerable natural areas that are not wanted by the population. Denmark is already one of the countries in the world with the least free nature. What's left of it, we need to be very careful. The abolition of reservations to the motorway will also raise many concerns for the citizens and businesses concerned. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145358	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145419	Thank you. It is high time to secure a break with the transport corridor, which has been unused for 40 years now and has hardly any future ahead of it. We ask the proposers and the government to start this work. In the 1970s, a 1 km wide belt was designated, which runs approx. 60 km from Kokkedal to Køge. On its way, the corridor plows through areas such as Church tents, Great Dyrehave, which have just been named as cultural heritage and thus have achieved Unesco protection. In addition, the corridor passes through Natura 2000 protected areas such as Mølleådalen, which today serves as a unique breathing hole for North Zealand's citizens and among others. includes large forest areas, natural parks, bogs and meadows. We think that is worth preserving. Many of the land is protected, and it would be a disaster to drive a motorway through them. In addition, the corridor also walks • we haven't talked about that much today • through 20 old village environments, e.g. Kirkelte and Fredtofte. Citizens living in the transport corridor today find it difficult to obtain permission to change existing buildings, etc. It is difficult for them to develop the cadastre they otherwise own. At the same time, it is difficult for residents to sell their properties, as the transport corridor gives them an uncertain future. It may be good for the state to make area reservations for future use, but the future must be definable and it cannot last forever. The resistance to Ring 5 is great, among other things. from a very large number of mayors, among others. from the civil movement that is against Ring 5. I do not hear much from the citizens about the establishment of Ring 5 nor, in fact, from so many parties, perhaps with the exception of Social Democracy. We have many other infrastructure projects which we would much rather prioritise. That is why, of course, the Conservative People's Party supports this resolution and we very much welcome the alternative proposal in relation to the area north of Elsinore.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145641	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Morten Bødskov from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145645	Thank you for that, President. In the western part of Copenhagen there is also a very dominant mayor within the Conservatives, Michael Ziegler, who I understand is Vice-President of the Conservative People's Party, and I just want to know, for the sake of the general interest, whether it is a collective Conservative People's Party that is behind the participation of the Conservative People's Party in this resolution. Does the Vice-President of the Conservative People's Party, Michael Ziegler, who is the mayor of High Taastrup, also support this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145718	Now Michael Ziegler is the mayor of High Taastrup and not a member of the conservative parliamentary group, and when we vote on things in the Folketing, it is the parliamentary group that makes the decisions. Of course, I have listened to the arguments of Michael Ziegler. He must represent his territory, and he does so in an excellent way as mayor. But that does not alter the fact that the position of the Conservative Parliamentary Group, which I represent today, is that we cannot be aware of maintaining the area reservation on Ring 5, which has been there for more than 40 years now and which has no future for itself. I have not really heard the Social Democrats argue that it has, at least in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145756	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145759	What arguments have the Conservative Vice-President, the Mayor of High Taastrup, made to the Conservative Parliamentary Group when asked why he is not in favour of this proposal? So what is it that Michael Ziegler has said will affect the citizens of High Taastrup and the surrounding area if you choose to drop Ring 5?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145825	I am not going to stand here and refer to the conversations I may have with my fellow party members, even if they are mayors. They take place in confidence. But it is no secret that a Ring 5 will bring significantly greater benefits to the surroundings of Copenhagen than it will for North Zealand. It is in North Zealand that it will plow through scenic areas, and it is the surrounding area of Copenhagen that will primarily benefit from it in terms of traffic. So, of course, there are different interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145852	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145853	I think it's quite interesting. I fully agree that one cannot, of course, stand and report how things are spoken about within a party, but there must be a number of conservative voters in High Taastrup, in Køge and in Vallensbæk, where there are conservative mayors, and what is the Conservative rapporteur's message to them? The proposal you have here will mean that the relatively many conservative voters who are in those areas will suffer from more congestion and particulate emissions. Are you Conservatives' message to the many voters: that is how we give priority to Northern Zealand; we give priority to Northern Zealand over the many voters in High Taastrup, Køge and Vallensbæk, who are conservative?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217145942	I can say very clearly what we Conservatives are prioritising. Our priority is to preserve protected areas, areas under UNESCO's world heritage. We do not, like the Social Democrats, want to drive a motorway through such a nature worthy of preservation. We Conservatives support those citizens who cannot understand that they do not have full ownership of their own property, that they cannot be allowed to build on their land as they want, because for more than 40 years now the area has been reserved for a project that has no future for itself. Social democracy may want a Ring 5, but I have not heard any other parties in this Chamber today say that you want a Ring 5. So I think that we should also think about the Socialist voters who can live in areas with area reservations and which are tied there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150025	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150025-2	First of all, I would like to say that the Minister's excellent speech means that we are prepared to look at it here, also to address the challenges that exist in North Zealand. So it is not the case that we are not going to solve it and take some consideration there. But what is the Conservative rapporteur's response if we are to have alternatives to Ring 5? Where else can you put a road? Where else can a new railway be built if it is in 10, 20, 30 years' time we will need one of these? And what is the message to those people who are suddenly in danger of having the decision to have a line line drawn over their heads? Others have had 42 years to get used to it with an area reservation. But if you put it somewhere else, some people suddenly pull it down over their heads, and their property is expropriated without having had the shadow of a chance to prepare. What are the Conservatives' answers to these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150112	It should be borne in mind that there are also a number of people who have lived in this area before the area reservation came. In addition, the people who live there today have the experience that they have actually been expropriated, because they have not in any way been compensated for the reservation that has taken place. So one can easily talk about the fact that there has already been a de facto expropriation without the citizens being compensated for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150133	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150151	Thank you very much. Across Nordsjælland there is a 1 km-wide corridor, which among other things. is reserved for a freeway. The area was reserved in the 1970s and it was a time when motorway projects were put through natural areas because it was the cheapest. Meanwhile, the areas located in the transport corridor have developed into something of the most important nature of North Zealand. The corridor runs e.g. Today through Great Dyrehave, which is designated UNESCO World Heritage, and Mølleådalen, which is a Natura 2000 site. Climate change and the fact that within the next 10 years we in Denmark have to secure significant CO2 in the Western region, and which we must of course take seriously and resolve, must be resolved in other ways than by building new motorways. There is therefore no doubt that the time has long since elapsed from Ring 5. It's a highway that never has to be built. It is therefore time for us politicians in the Folketing to make the necessary decision to cancel the Ring 5 motorway, put it in the grave and cancel the area reservations. For in all the years that the reservations have existed, they have led to great and intrusive restrictions for all the many people living in the transport corridor. So, for the sake of the many citizens concerned, it is time for us here at Christiansborg to come to a final clarification. We simply cannot be aware of maintaining the plans for a deeply outdated motorway with all the genes that this brings to the citizens of North Zealand. Following this proposal, we have received requests from citizens pointing out that there are also area reservations around Elsinore which are not included in our resolution. In the motion for a resolution, we have chosen a demarcation that corresponds to the route of a possible future Ring 5, as indicated by the Ministry of Transport's strategic analysis of a Western ring corridor from 2013. We have tried to clarify in committee whether the Elsinore reservations have anything to do with Ring 5 and we have not yet managed to get a clear answer. However, this is something we will address in committee and we will table an amendment to the resolution if it makes sense to include these areas. I am very pleased with the treatment that has been in the Folketing today. I am very pleased with the cooperation on this resolution, both with the Radicals and the Conservatives. I note that both the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative and the SF support our resolution. I have to say that I am somewhat amazed that we are not also experiencing support from the Danish People's Party, which has been very busy in the election campaign to point out that they would at least be working for the abolition of Ring 5, but which then apparently after the election has taken a completely different attitude. I would like to thank the Minister for Transport for his hand. Of course, the Enhedslisten is very much involved in constructive cooperation to clarify what we can do so that we can get rid of this motorway. But I must also say that it is not acceptable to us if it becomes a jam jar that we have to do a long-term analysis of any other infrastructure projects to alleviate the hardship. So I think I can say on behalf of all the authors of the motion that we are, of course, sticking to the proposal. We are involved in constructive cooperation, but it will certainly not be the last time that we have this debate in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150557	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150601	Well, on behalf of the Socialists, I would like to acknowledge the great commitment of the North Zealand nature. I think that's nice and good. And that is not because we are blind to the challenges that are there. That is important, and I think that is also being met in what the Minister says. But I think that when you hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, you have some doubts: is it the Enhedslisten, or is it such a North Zealand local list? Because there is a lot of focus on what is good in Nordsjælland, i.e. that you can walk around in beautiful, scenic surroundings with Fjällräv on and enjoy it, but there is little consideration for the Copenhagen West Region, where there is a lot of congestion today and where they suffer from particulate emissions and other things. Should one not also have such a little more social balance on the part of Enhedslisten in how to distribute the problems here, so that it is not Nordsjælland rather than High Taastrup and the rest of the West?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150652	Thank you for the question. Where the chain bounces off completely for the Social Democrats in this discussion is that one God help me think that a Ring 5 motorway will be the solution to the traffic challenges that the Western Region is experiencing. There are two aspects here that I think the rapporteur is well aware of. Firstly, there is a very high risk that this motorway will be very much used by Swedish lorries, which, moreover, have worked very hard to get this motorway so that they have a more direct road to Germany and the rest of Europe. It cannot be our job to patch asphalt in addition to North Zealand for the benefit of Swedish trucks. Secondly, we need to look into a future in which we have two considerations in relation to the development of our transport and our infrastructure. One is that we have some climate challenges, and I am convinced that the rapporteur knows about them and where we need to look at solutions other than motorways. We would very much like to see a look at how, for example. can get a coastal track that works, how to get better S-trains, how to get light lanes that cross existing road networks • the easy path that is being established in Ring 3 is one solution, but you could also look at an easy path in Ring 4. There are a whole lot of other solutions that we would very much like to enter into a constructive dialogue on... I think I have now spent my time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150815	I would remind Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding that we do not call on the higher powers of the Folketing. There is no one above and no one next to the Folketing. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150826	When we express how it is experienced in the West, it is because we have talked to those who live there and we have talked to their political representatives and they are seriously concerned about this. They feel abandoned by Enhedslisten when Enhedslisten makes such a proposal here. So we have simply been in dialogue with the citizens who live there. Now the rapporteur is proposing that we look into the future, and that sounds very good; I also want to do so. And there is no doubt that we too, on the part of the Social Democrats, are very interested in investing massively in public transport, which we also tried to take the lead in when we last had government power. But we can just see that, although there has been a great deal of investment in public transport, the distribution over the last 40-50 years between the proportion of car drivers and those who drive with the collective is similar even though we have invested massively. So there will probably continue to be cars in the future, and does the rapporteur not think that, in a situation where the cars of the future are becoming cheaper, climate neutral because they become electric, become more accessible, maybe even become self-propelled, then there will be more cars, and will we not be in a situation where we cannot keep up with planning at all? And shouldn't we be better at planning so that we don't end up in traffic chaos and cows in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217150944	What tends to happen when more motorways are built is that more cars are also coming out on the roads. And what we are discussing is not whether we should abolish carism, because of course we should not. What we are discussing is: What is the best solution to the trouble problems we are experiencing today? And there is a motorway across North Zealand not the solution, and certainly not a motorway that cuts through valuable natural areas, because it is another place where we have a challenge to protect our nature. So we need to deal with finding solutions that both anticipate climate change, anticipate tribulation and anticipate the obvious need we have to protect our nature. And you just have to say that on all three parameters, call 5 falls to the ground. And then I can guarantee the rapporteur that there is support from Enhedslisten throughout Denmark for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151045	Morten Bødskov for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151048	I think the interesting thing here is that the Minister has said that he is ready to carry out a study to clarify this question. You might find an analysis of this, you can certainly point to whether some new balances can be made, so that we can get both nature and people and traffic and transport to go into a unit. What I am hearing from the rapporteur here is that, despite the outstretched hand, it is still gone such a either-or. That's what I think, too, sir. Rasmus Prehn asks a little, namely that there are incredibly many thousands of people who do not have access in the day-to-day nature in North Zealand and can open the door to the terrace and sit out and enjoy it. What do they hear when they open the window? Then they hear traffic noise, see smogs and car queues on the roads, which are there morning, dinner and evening, which are unfamiliar and which cause incredibly big problems. So there are thousands of people around the capital who do not have access to the beautiful nature, but who have other problems they want solved. That is why I do not understand the either-or-view of the Enhedslisten and why they do not take a little more actively the hand that the Minister has stretched out today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151216	I think that I have spent some time in my rapporteur's speech precisely recognizing that there has been an outstretched hand and that we are very much in a dialogue and in an analysis work. But I just have to make it clear that the way to solve that there are citizens in this country who are living with too much noise and too much pollution is not that it is not a very wise approach to solving these problems. And that's exactly what we're gonna do if we build Ring 5. Then there will be even more citizens who will be exposed to noise and even more pollution from, among others. Swedish trucks that can take a shortcut to Europe. It's another way we have to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151306	Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151308	But it is just funny that when you are dealing with a problem that covers the entire metropolitan area, namely the tribulation, you choose to say that there is a tool in the toolbox that you do not want to use, and that is highways, you have to understand. This is evidently opposed in principle. I think it got a little nuance from the authors of the motion when I asked him. Martin Lidegaard, who is now on his way out of the hall, whether it was a view, i.e. the resistance to the Ring 5 and the construction of a new motorway around Copenhagen, which also applied to the extension of the Hillerød motorway, the Helsingør motorway and the Frederikssund motorway, because there I think I can say as much as that Enhedslisten is also against it. But I do not understand why it is not possible to see that it is a jumble of several instruments that is needed: public transport, S-trains, buses, light rails and roads. Well, most small craftsmen do not excuse me, although I like light rails very much, which drag toolboxes, cupboards, cooks, and what else they fill up their cars with, and which must be carried back and forth and around Copenhagen, into light rails or S-trains or buses to get there with it. Do you not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151421	I would just like to point out in all peace that what we are discussing today is the dismantling of Ring 5. It is not to dismantle the entire existing road network. Then I just want to say that it is our main point here that for the billions that Ring 5 will cost, you can solve the traffic challenges in the western region much wiser. Because I fully recognise, and we all, incidentally, who have been on the platform here today, that we must tackle the challenges of traffic. But we just have to do it and now I repeat myself to do it in a way so that we think about climate change and the green transition of the transport sector, which is absolutely inevitable and which we have to do over the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151506	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151508	I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for this motion for a resolution. I think it is essential that we protect natural values, among other things. The millådalen, which has a very special natural value, as the Conservatives also mentioned earlier. Having said that, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not true that it is Socialist mayors, Left Mayors and indeed Conservative mayors in North Zealand who think very clearly that the green corridors need to be closed down in order to guarantee citizens' rights precisely better and that, therefore, it is not only an extremely left-wing view if I hear my colleague in the Social Democratic Party right. Is there not a broad political understanding in Northern Zealand that it is important that this is done for the benefit of the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151552	I would like to confirm this: it is very broad in political terms. It is a very broad political alliance behind the desire to dismantle the Ring 5 and the transport corridor. I also think it emphasises that we are a very broad political alliance consisting of the Enhedslisten, the Radicals and the Conservative People's Party behind this resolution. So it is definitely not something that is rooted in a fundamental resistance to highways, but in a desire here and now to have Ring 5 removed, drop it, and have the area reservations lifted after they have been here for so many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151627	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151628	We in the SF agree entirely with that. There's something I'm a little curious about. When we look at the figures of Danish Industry, we see that the congestion to Copenhagen costs Denmark approx. 10 billion kr. growth per year. In other words, people are queued up along the routes of introduction, such as: Is it not because we mostly need to develop public transport? For the citizens who are queued on Sallingvej and other roads can't drive into Copenhagen on several floors, and they can't move around in the ring either, since their business is to get into Copenhagen. So if we are going to do something about growth potential, is it not really about expanding public transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151718	I fully agree that that is what this is all about. It's about giving people a real alternative to the car. Because we have to recognise that today public transport is not always a choice for all people, and what exactly is the task for us in the future is to ensure that more people can choose public transport which is attractive, punctual and which is comfortable to use. Here and now, for example, we could. start by getting a coastal track that works better; to expand with light rails, also with light rails that cross; to improve the S-trains. So there are a whole lot of different things we could do to make public transport much more attractive, much more useful and thus solve the hardship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151800	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151804	Now it's the way in life that often is both-and better than either-or. Boats-and is good when we talk transportation. We need both cars and roads, but we also need well-functioning public transport. There I hope we agree, although I can hear that it is a little problematic with the cars and Enhedslisten, regardless of the fact that the cars will be very, very green and green in the foreseeable future. I would like to hear about either or, because it sounds as though you are holding on to this proposal, take it or leave it, it is either-or, and I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur for the authors of the motion: are we prepared for a debate in committee so that we can land it here in a report across the parties, so that we can get a result out of it, or do we stick very firmly to the proposal as it stands, and then we are going to vote on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151855	We're not against cars. I have an electric car myself, which I am very, very fond of. We just do not believe that the future of traffic challenges should be solved by building more roads or more motorways. There's a very big difference there. However, I would like to say that we would very much like to enter into the negotiations on the proposal. We would very much like to take a look at the analysis that the Minister of Transport is proposing, but I would like to say that we continue to insist on the need for the removal of Ring 5 and the abolition of area reservations. That is very clear what we are working for. Then how we get there, we're open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151937	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217151939	I'd like to sign for that. It is fair enough that you have the objective of going to negotiations. I hope and believe that we can land this here with a sensible report in committee and that we will come up with something in which most of us, if not all, can see themselves. And I would just like to point out that it may well be that you have a position that the collective is always the best. However, I allow myself to question this, because out there, where there is a long way between houses, it is sometimes not very sensible to invest heavily in public transport. There is a good thing about individual transport, whereas where there is a high population density, public transport is, after all, devastatingly strong. But as Mr. So Morten Bødskov is also there people who need to drive around with their children and their dresser and other things. We can take that debate another time, but a receipt that the authors of the motion for a resolution are obviously willing to negotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217152024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217152025	I agree that there are areas in this country where you obviously need a car. I agree that you can be in a situation where a car is a good thing to have. But there is no doubt that, with the future we are looking into, with the green transformation of the transport sector, we need to ensure that public transport is attractive to much more people. It's obvious. We cannot patch Denmark with as many electric cars as we currently have petrol and diesel cars. Nor is it sustainable in a resource perspective. There are many different things we need to take into account here. But I just want to make it clear that what we are discussing today is Ring 5, which is a very specific motorway, which there is a very broad political alliance behind the abolition and elimination of, and that is what we will continue to work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217152118	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217152133	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until tomorrow, Friday 18 December 2015. It is permissible to comment on the resolution on the national climate target 2020, B 20. For the explanatory statement, Mrs Reumert Gjerd, the rapporteur for the questioners, is Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217152226	Thank you very much. The first thing this government did when it came to one of the first things in any case was to scrap the Danish climate targets. This happened despite the fact that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament behind the Climate Act and a target of 40% CO2 The Danish climate targets were dropped very shortly before the major and important climate summit in Paris, and this was so noted throughout the world. Denmark received a price of COP21 as today's fossil. It is given to countries or organisations that are helping to harm the climate struggle and the opportunity to land an ambitious agreement. Despite Denmark's somewhat sloppy and unfortunate appearance at the climate summit, a global climate agreement was successfully concluded on Saturday. With the agreement, the global climate targets were tightened up, and the whole world, including Denmark, has committed itself to working to ensure that the global temperature increase should not exceed 1.5 degrees. The agreement goes a long way towards the ambitious objectives and what the countries are actually prepared to deliver. Therefore, it is imperative that all countries go home and wind up their climate targets, especially in the medium term. I have called this question because I believe that we in the Folketing need to have a discussion about the fact that we have a government which, in this way, is acting contrary to what a majority in the Folketing wants and which in this way damages Denmark's international reputation, reputation and leadership. I look forward very much to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217152423	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217152433	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for taking the initiative in this debate on climate policy. It has been quite a short time since COP21 in Paris ended and it has been a great experience to participate in this great and complicated negotiation work. I would also like to thank the many climate and energy rapporteurs of the Danish Parliament who passed Paris. Thank you for your cooperation in this regard. The global climate agreement underlines that there is global support for tackling climate change, and I am proud that Denmark, as part of the EU, contributed with one of the highest reduction targets. Similarly, the global climate agreement shows the importance of Denmark actively contributing to achieving and fulfilling international climate agreements both within the UN and within the EU. It is these binding agreements that are the tool to track the countries of the world on the right path in dealing with global climate challenges. In Denmark, a large part of the debate on climate change during the autumn has been marked by debates on the advantages and disadvantages of setting a separate Danish reduction target by 2020, which goes beyond the ambitious target that Denmark has already committed itself to achieving as part of the EU's overall climate targets by 2020 and 2030. The government's position on this debate is clear: we do not want to set a short-term national reduction target that goes beyond EU objectives. There are a number of good reasons for this. The government's long-term goal is that we should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. A national milestone in the climate area by 2020 is not necessarily a cost-effective stepping stone on its way. This is due to the fact that it is currently difficult to establish the optimal route of reduction on the short track due to inter alia: the development of technology. In addition, emissions levels in the short term will also be guided by temporary fluctuations in fuel prices, CO2 A national target by 2020 can thus lead to too fast and not fully thought-out interventions. We do not yet have the necessary knowledge and a short-term national objective is not decisive in achieving the long-term objective of climate and energy. At the same time, this can lead to significant negative consequences for important parts of the Danish business community. It was also stressed by the Climate Council recently that it is not essential for the long-term conversion that the Danish greenhouse gases have been reduced by e.g. 37 per cent. 40% or 40%. in 2020. Overall, short-term national climate targets can thus become an expensive and not very effective decision that is not consistent with the Government's intention to pursue a green but realistic climate policy, focusing on bringing costs down and not up. The situation is different, of course, if it is an international obligation. This is a joint effort in which all countries take their share of the burden. This will also have a real effect on greenhouse gas emissions. So the effect on Danish competitiveness will be less and the climate effect greater. The new baseline projection for the development of energy consumption, energy production and greenhouse gas emissions in Denmark has just been published. I am very pleased that it confirms that Denmark continues to pursue an ambitious climate policy and expects to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. The published base projection shows that greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 are expected to be reduced by 40%. The changes in emission levels compared to last year's baseline projection are due to a number of changed assumptions, new knowledge rather than changing climate and energy policy. In the base projection, the effects of already adopted but not necessarily implemented actions are included, thus also the effects of the Finance Act for 2016. The new projection of greenhouse gas emissions does not mean that the government is changing its attitude in relation to the issue of setting a short-term national objective. We still do not want the focus to be on expensive here and now measures whose real impact on the long-term green transition is limited. What is important, on the other hand, is that we carry out a long-term change carried by common sense, so that we are able to pay the bill for it. For next year and next year there will also be slight variations in the assessment of emissions by 2020. This is due to a number of difficult predictable factors that are not immediately manageable through energy and climate policy. Depending on the developments in 2016, next year's base projection can therefore show a different level of reduction by 2020, although the policy course is the same. This underlines the challenges of setting meaningful short-term national climate targets and once again points out that the main tool of climate and energy policy is the broad international agreements. In achieving international objectives, broad national agreements such as the Energy Agreement are important tools. In my opinion, these are agreements that ensure stability and momentum. Thus, the government does not want a short-term national climate target that points beyond EU objectives, but this does not mean that the government does not have visions for Danish climate policy. The visions just need to make sense in relation to the development in Denmark and in the world around us. The Government's vision in the climate field is to maintain Denmark's position as one of the most ambitious countries in the world in the climate field, and to continue the well-known line in the EU. Here we are working to ensure a high level of ambition in the climate area of the European Union and, at the same time, we assume our share of responsibility for achieving the common ambitious climate targets set by the European Union. This has been the line towards achieving the EU's 2020 targets. Denmark provides, among other things: through its ambitious renewable energy expansion, a very significant contribution to climate action within the EU's common quota trading system covering emissions from the energy sector and industry in particular. Denmark, together with Sweden, is one of the countries in the EU that has expanded the share of renewable energy in total final energy consumption most since 2005. At the same time, Denmark has one of the highest reduction targets in the EU in the so-called non-quota sectors, which in popular terms include the three Bs: farmers, cars and buildings. We are also well on the way to achieving that goal. This approach will ensure an ambitious climate policy while allowing competitive parts of Danish business to compete on an equal footing with the rest of the EU. Denmark will take on a significant commitment to achieving the EU 2030 target of at least 40% reduction. And it is not a small task that awaits us. The expectation is that Denmark will also have a reduction target for non-quota sectors at the high end this time. So we need to find out how to deal with a reduction target that could potentially be a significant challenge for our agriculture and transport sector, in particular, two areas that the government places high emphasis on. It is the Government's ambition that we should meet the EU's reduction targets by 2030 without unnecessarily burdening industry or the Danish Treasury. The two main challenges up to 2030 are, on the one hand, to ensure that Denmark's contribution to the EU's common climate targets, which is a reduction in greenhouse gases of at least 40%, and, on the other hand, to ensure continued sensible development in the energy sector when the current energy agreement expires in 2020. Before the end of 2018, discussions will begin within the Energy Regulatory Committee on a new energy agreement for the period after 2020. Overall, the task at this stage is to ensure that we do our preparatory work properly so that we are able to organise an appropriate climate and energy effort after 2020, pointing towards achieving the 2030 and 2050 targets. A first step is the establishment of the Government's Energy Commission. The Commission must, on the one hand, make recommendations for the organisation of the overall energy policy after 2020 and, on the other hand, identify cost-effective solutions for managing international climate commitments after 2020. The expectation is that the Commission's recommendations will be ready at the beginning of 2017. We must therefore arm ourselves with patience and devote the time necessary to finding the good solutions that will ensure a cost-effective transition of Danish society to low-mission. We need to find the right solutions that have the support of both the population and industry. It is crucial that the Danes are able to pay the bill for the conversion in the long run. That is why it is a question of finding the right balance, where we in Denmark continue both the green transition and at the same time take account of business, growth and employment. Having said all that, I would like to emphasise that although there may be nuance differences in the speed and extent of the green transition, it is my view that the overall objective of achieving a green transformation of Danish society enjoys broad support in the Folketing. This basic consensus on the overall objective provides the basis for a sound and objective exchange of views, which I very much appreciate and therefore look forward to unfolding and participating in today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217153711	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. We can now move on to the debate. The first in the debate is the rapporteur for the questions, and this is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217153735	I would like to thank the Minister for his introductory speech. I think it is very important that we establish today with seven inch nails that climate objectives are important. They are because they are absolutely necessary pointers towards the goal that we have in 2050, namely that we have to switch to a low-carbon society where we are virtually not emitting any CO2 which is why climate targets for 2020, 2025, 2030, etc. necessary sub-targets to ensure the green transition and to ensure that it is driven forward at the right pace and at the right pace. The alternative to having targets, milestones, pointers, is just to let evolution go its crooked walk and then cross your fingers to get to where we're going at some point. This is neither a responsible nor a particularly wise way of dealing with the task. Goals also have another important function, which I think it is very important to pay attention to, especially in the international context, where the countries of the world meet and discuss together, how we get together, get the promise and resolve this huge challenge that we face, with a climate crisis that roars out there and where we have a shared responsibility, all the peoples of the world, all the governments of the world, all the politicians of the world, to solve this problem. We show, when we have objectives, that we actually take the challenge seriously, that we are seriously concerned that we are prepared to take part in the responsibility, especially when we as Denmark take the lead. It also sends another important signal both to the companies that are going up in gear, to all those who could consider investing in fossil fuels and abroad. We show that we take responsibility, that one of the world's richest countries, which has also been at the top for many years when it comes to CO2 inhabitants, actually recognises that we have a responsibility and that is why we are also taking the lead. I understand very well that the government welcomes yesterday's inventory, which shows that we will probably reach the 40-percent target by 2020. Now you always have to remember that these numbers are insecure. And what they're saying is that we're going to be somewhere between 35 and 44 percent. However, I think that the government should consider how it might be that we have arrived at this point. What is really the reason why we have succeeded? That's one of them. the fact that we have had a goal. We have known where we were going by 2020 and we have been aiming for it. In his speech, the Minister mentions that Denmark must continue to be ahead. So the government is going to speed up. Both the Climate Council's report and other statements show that we are losing our breath. We are no longer the pioneering country that we have been for many years. The World Energy Council has made an inventory that shows that in 2013 we were number two on the world ranking when it comes to green transition, energy and sustainability, we are now 2 years after falling down to 6th place. So we shouldn't think that this thing about being a green forerunner and having a leading position is something you're going to sleep on, as the world looks like today. This can only be achieved if we have ambitious objectives that are constantly and dedicated to achieving. I agree with the Minister that we must of course also look forward, but for us it is certainly not a either-or. Of course, we need to look forward and have medium- and long-term objectives. It will also be a perfectly natural follow-up to the Paris agreement that we in Denmark, as we are doing here today, are discussing what the objective of 2025 is. What is the target for 2030? Because the fact that we have to have partial objectives is what we have committed ourselves to in Paris, and that is what we need to do internationally, so that we tighten up our ambitions and hopefully reach the 1.5 degree target.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154236	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was very precisely concluded. One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154243	Now the rapporteur mentioned the projection that has come. The Minister also mentioned this in his speech. I think it is very important to have a small eye on the projection, because it has been changed this year. Among other things: You take the carbon up in the soil into account, and you haven't done that in the past. It is, of course, a marginal improvement, but it is actually a change in the way in which it is calculated. Secondly, it is very clear from the projection that there are improvements in the quota sector, while transport is going completely wrong. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on whether the rapporteur, if at some point you start to count on the final draft Finance Act, then what has been adopted, and not just the draft Finance Act, and perhaps also the agricultural package that the government will bring in afterwards, can be concerned that we will not achieve the objectives set out in the projection.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154332	I can be very concerned about that and thank you for the question. Because it is quite right that what is going to happen, among other things. With the Finance Act and with the agricultural package we know that we are going to be going in the wrong direction. So what we have to say is that in order to achieve the target of 40%. CO2 As the Climate Council also pointed out, emissions from the transport sector are higher today than it did in 1990. So that sector has gone the wrong way, and the Finance Act will contribute further to that. So to think that one is in line with the statement that came yesterday would be a very misguided conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154424	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154426	It was good that the rapporteur also took up the Climate Council, because I think it is thought-provoking that the Climate Council has put forward that it actually pays off socio-economically for Denmark to invest precisely in this area and not only in the quota sector, but also in this non-quota sector, because there are some good socio-economic effects. Now I'm taught by experience of sitting in government a little careful to think about those dynamic effects, but since it's ADAM's own calculations that show some good dynamic effects, you have to take them at face value. And it is quite clear from the Climate Council that the dynamic effects of doing something in the agricultural sector will also have a good socio-economic effect because it delivers on, among other things. our nitrogen emissions. What does the rapporteur think the climate minister should do to ensure precisely the effects that the Climate Council is proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154520	I really hope that the government listens to its own Climate Council, which very clearly says that the 40-percent objective is a very good idea. It is a step towards the goal we have in the long run. And as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also mentioned, there is a very good socio-economic gain by addressing the non-quota sector called agriculture. We as a society can really have some beneficial effects if we put in here, and if we say that this is exactly where we need to find our CO2 So there has to be a very great call from here to the government: Listen to your Climate Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154605	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217154617	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for calling this question. We Social Democrats are a progressive party. We basically believe that tomorrow can be better than today and that it can move forward if we make wise political decisions. This also applies to climate change. Because it is true that the climate puts its limits on what we can derive and how we can produce. But the climate debate is not just a matter of limitations and costs. It is also a field of opportunities for growth and healthy jobs. We have just returned from a climate summit in Paris. We managed to reach an historic agreement which, although it does not solve all the problems, has actually brought us on the right track. We should be grateful for that, but it is also high time. As President Obama of the United States has said several times in recent times, we are the first generation to truly feel climate change, but also the last generation to do something about it. The climate summit was special. For the first time in a long time there was both optimism, but also an international belief and a real will to find new ways and solutions. The climate is, so to speak, no longer just a matter for the street activist and for the conscious idealist; it has also become a matter for companies to create good economics in their business today. At the Paris Summit there were a number of progressive Danish companies represented • some of those who win international prizes and who bring export earnings home in the green area. And as the Danish bosses said in Paris: We do not just sell products, we sell solutions. These are the systems and solutions that go like hot bread in the world. Last year total exports increased by just over half a percent. As you know, exports of green energy technology rose by more than 15% in comparison. This is the result of the fact that many years ago in Denmark, with a broad political majority, we took responsibility and took the opportunity. It is a result of visionary Danish companies that have seen a huge potential in investing in climate technology. It is a potential that we risk throwing on the floor with a climate policy without ambition. This isn't about party politics. Danish Industry has also criticised the government for cutting support for green research, which both strengthens exports and creates jobs. It is not just any workplace it creates. It actually creates good jobs both for the individual and for society. It goes across geographical and social boundaries. It is jobs for the engineer, it is jobs for the metal worker, it is jobs for the 3F. They are the ones who devise and produce our green solutions. And they're not just created in our big cities. The green workplace is very much occurring in parts of the country where there may be a little low tide in the area of jobs. For example, we Social Democrats have stated clearly that, in the context of the growth negotiations, we support an incorporation requirement for biofuels which can help create a thousand jobs around Holstebro. A targeted climate policy is therefore both an investment in the future, in the economy and in good Danish jobs. And in Paris, our companies didn't just get a bigger market. They were also beaten by several competitors. For now, the rest of the world's eyes are also focused on investing in the green sector, and that is very much what makes us have to look after the green driver's shirt we have. We are, as it were, in a pole position, but I also believe that every company owner and responsible politician knows that a leading position is not something that is being held still. This year we are going to see a world economy that, according to the IMF, has grown by about 3%. At the same time, emissions from CO2 coal and oil are falling. And we know that the emissions haven't peaked now, but the trend is ready. The cliché that good economics and a healthy environment cannot go hand in hand is simply no longer holding. That is why it is not appropriate for the government to put itself in the climate policy hammock. Now, other rapporteurs have mentioned yesterday's figures which show that we may be hitting 40% of CO2 reduction. It was not an objective that the government had. It was not a plan that the government had, but it is then proved that a blind hen can also find a grain. We must welcome this on behalf of the climate, of course we must, but it does not solve the problems to which the government has so far failed to respond. How do we set the charges so that they support and do not stop our green transition? How do we use our wind energy better? How do we achieve a sustainable transport sector? And what are we going to do in agriculture? I believe that the government is doing the profession a disservice by not dealing with the transformation that is going to take place over the next few decades by not setting targets. It doesn't help pretending nothing's gonna happen. Let us rather talk openly about what we need to do and how we can do it in a way so that there is enough time and financial opportunity to actually make the transition. I would therefore urge the government to enter this climate debate. Let us seize the opportunity to create new jobs, while, of course, as we have done in countless growth packages, we are very aware of achieving balance and competitiveness that is so important for the entire business community. We must take care of costs and adjust as cheaply as possible, but the old contradiction between economic growth and environmental and climate considerations is fortunately obsolete. This means that climate policy is not just idealism; it is also taking responsibility and seeing opportunities. And we do not think there is much green realism over lower climate targets, less money for energy research and cuts in heat pumps. It's more like a black self-target.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155147	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments, so the next rapporteur we should ask to come up here is Mr. Mikkel Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155207	The purpose of the question debate here is, I think, basically to dissatisfaction on the left with the policy of the new government and to wish the policy of the previous government continued. After all, the previous government had different climate objectives, including: This is about Denmark's CO2 in relation to the 1990 discharge. The aim of the present government is not to continue to follow, and it is, after all, the choice of any government to determine its own policy. It is understandable that on the left side, where you mean something else, you would like to influence it. That is why we have this debate. In the Danish People's Party we have the view that climate targets can be an expensive pleasure, because you risk getting very busy meeting them. That is the case with objectives. The problem with climate targets is that if you are to reach them, green energy needs to be phased in at a certain rate and, unfortunately, technological developments in the green energy area have turned out to be such that green energy is still not competitive on market terms in relation to fossil energy. It means everything else equal that you have to use green energy at a time when it is more expensive than fossil energy, and therefore we put on our society a more expensive energy bill than necessary, which leads to a loss of competitiveness and jobs and, indeed, a more expensive energy bill for business, but indeed also for the ordinary Dane's household. I have no doubt that at some point green energy will be cheaper than fossil energy. All market mechanisms point to this, because fossil energy is a limited resource and the less it becomes, the higher the price will be with the same demand. Green technology is constantly evolving and is thus also becoming cheaper, so at some point green technology will overtake the fossil. This has not happened yet, but developments point in the direction of it. This is the experience of all technology development, and it is also the experience that has been gained, for example. windmills, which have actually become quite cheap. So climate targets are something that costs money, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party were quite satisfied that the current government, when it joined, announced that it would not pursue the old government's climate objectives. I would say that in the Danish People's Party we see energy policy as something that must primarily aim to ensure that Danish society has a cheap and stable energy supply and at the same time also point towards self-sufficiency. That is what we see as the purpose and not that we have to meet certain climate targets. In a Danish context, climate targets are something that has a quite marginal meaning in a global context. About Denmark by 2020 has reached a 37 per cent reduction. 40% or 40%. will have a very, very marginal impact on the global emissions of CO2 So the only measurable effect is a higher expense. In the Danish People's Party we do not want to contribute to setting climate targets. We support the government on this point, and I am going to make the following on behalf of DF: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the energy policy that has been pursued so far has been aimed primarily at introducing green energy and reducing Danish CO2 On this basis, the Danish Parliament urges the government to establish its energy policy so that no further expensive initiatives are taken if the sole aim is to achieve further reduction of Denmark's CO2 parliament calls on the government to ensure that the energy policy's aim is to ensure a cheap and stable energy supply and, at the same time, to ensure that Denmark is self-sufficient in energy. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155652	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will include the proposed proposal for adoption in the further negotiations. There are three who have asked for brief comments, and the first is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155708	Thank you very much. I note that the rapporteur attaches great importance to the fact that this climate issue is indeed an expensive pleasure. I have three questions for the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur recognise that the fact that we have been a green pioneer country, including in the energy sector, has created thousands of Danish jobs and very large and increasing exports? That was one question. Secondly, has the rapporteur read the Climate Council report, which states that maintaining the 40-percent target and ensuring reductions in the agricultural sector will generate very large socio-economic gains? Then there's the last question. The rapporteur mentions that, in relation to fossil fuels, he believes that this would be in the interests of renewable energy, as I understood the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur only think that we should do something about climate change if it pays off in the short term?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155807	Now I have to see if I can remember all the questions and if I can answer them in one minute. To reply to the last point, I would like to say: I believe that at some point green energy will be cheaper than fossil energy, and at that time green energy will be the natural first choice for everyone who has to invest in technology, and I do not even think it will have to take so terrible many years. So the objectives which Mrs Reumert Gjerding's party wishes to introduce as soon as possible, I think, are actually coming from even in the course of not so much time. And then I can answer yes to having read the Climate Council report.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155851	Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding on a second brief point.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155853	Now my question was a political question: does the Danish People's Party only think that we should invest in renewable energy and do something about climate change if it pays off in the short run? That is the question. So I also ask: does the rapporteur recognise that it has created thousands of Danish jobs and increased exports, that we have actually had ambitious climate targets and that we have been at the forefront of the development of renewable energy technology?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217155927	I recognise that the fact that the green sector has been subsidised naturally creates a better breeding ground than otherwise for jobs to be created in the green sector. Yes, of course I recognise that jobs have been created in the green sector. It has happened and it has happened because it has been subsidised on such a large scale. A market has been created which would probably not have been there if there had not been these subsidies. And that is the case with virtually all sectors, in other words, if you support it sufficiently, jobs will be created which would not otherwise have been there. But, on the other hand, money is then taken away from other parts of society where it might have created more jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160007	Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160011	Thank you. The rapporteur and my party have good cooperation here in the Danish Parliament, but in this green area we may not share many views. However, I would like to ask a little whether the rapporteur is aware of the calculations available in relation to what we can fear and expect from climate refugees in the future. The UN has pointed out that by 2050, we will have 200 million climate refugees. It is, of course, a figure with great uncertainty, but when drought and other violent natural phenomena will make people unable to live where they live and they are fleeing, then everything else just becomes a problem that hits us in Denmark. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he is not concerned about the climate refugees we will be able to see in the future if we do not take climate change seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160101	I recognise that climate change has occurred in recent decades and that more people can also come forward and that it can lead to natural disasters in various parts of the world, and we must, of course, try to prevent this, and we must also try to remedy this when the disaster occurs. I would say that we do not recognise the concept of climate refugees as a category of people who should be entitled to asylum. But they must of course be helped if a natural disaster occurs somewhere and if there has been a flood disaster, we must help. And I also imagine that some of the aid from the developing countries could be channelled forward into projects which could just prevent these disasters from happening, for example. the dissemination of crops that are more road-independent, and, for example, flood prevention. So we recognise that climate change can happen, and we can both prevent that and, of course, we also need to mitigate disasters when they happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160206	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur recognises that there are climate change. I didn't really ask that question, but it's always good to make that clear. Can the rapporteur confirm that climate change is being regarded as something which is multiplying the threat level that can be and which can give these more climate refugees? And isn't it cheaper for us to help now than for a bigger bill to come up later when we face the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160237	I don't have to be smart about how expensive a bill is now or how expensive a bill may come later. I think, of course, that we should prevent those things that are predictable, and we should try to prevent unwanted incidents. So if there is an increase in water levels, you must, of course, try to contain it, literally. But the bigger calculations of what is cheapest, i.e. whether it's doing things now or in 10 years and how, I'm not going to make myself smart right here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160312	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160316	Now the rapporteur mentioned that he had read the Climate Council report, and there are many interesting things in it. Among other things, it says: whether the consequences, if they are to be met, will reach the 40-percent reduction target by 2020 and that this can be done in different ways. Then it says, among other things. here in one of the sub-conclusions of one of the chapters: In the Climate Council's "cost reduction package', the means are selected which together will ensure the lowest possible socio-economic costs for achieving the 40-percent target. This package is estimated to bring about a socio-economic gain of approx. 1.1 billion kr. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. kr. a year, if it is not something worth going for.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160415	If you are to attack your social investment on the basis of an economic calculation, you can probably find other things that are interesting to invest in. Now the questioner is so lucky that he actually has the papers in front of him and can read them. I don't have so many papers up here, so I can't read it out and don't have time for it in the 37 seconds that I have left of my speaking time. It is possible that there are some socio-economic gains by making certain investments, but perhaps these gains could be greater if the money was invested in other ways. So I shall not go into any further discussion of that when I do not have the documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160506	I can hear from the rapporteur that the economy is high, perhaps higher than the environment, and I would like to ask the rapporteur if he is aware that if we are to build up electricity generation capacity in Denmark, the expansion of wind turbines is thus the cheapest way to increase electricity production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160530	I am aware of this if you measure in price per person. produced kilowatt-time. There is then just the disadvantage of wind turbines that they do not always work, and sometimes they also work at inappropriate times, so you have to have a backup capacity. That is what makes landwind electricity less cheap anyway, because you just have to have double capacity to cover up when the wind doesn't blow.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160559	The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160603	Thank you. First of all, I would like to correct the misunderstanding which the rapporteur is touring with, namely that the state is pumping a great deal of money into wind turbines and that this is only why renewable energy in Denmark is worthwhile. Because it is just as correct to say that if we were to build a coal power plant in Denmark, the state would have to subsidise it as well. In the field of energy, it is generally the state that subsidises it, and I really think the rapporteur owes this to be made clear. Then I'd like to ask you a question. I know that there are negotiations on an agricultural package right now. It lies in the government's growth initiative and its desire to examine whether agriculture can be boosted. Will the Danish People's Party accept that this would mean a deterioration in our climate targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160651	I shall not be able to tell you what is going on in some negotiations in which I am not a party, in other words some negotiations in which my party is involved, but in which I am not personally involved. So I shall not be able to say that from or against, and I will of course not reveal what the Danish People's Party's negotiating point is. However, we are going to negotiations with the aim of achieving the best possible results from a social perspective, so that is the purpose. I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160723	In Paris, it was decided very clearly, and I know that the rapporteur himself took part in Paris, that the non-quota sector should also contribute to the climate objectives, and that is the transport sector, and that is the agricultural sector. That is why my question is of a more fundamental nature: will the Danish People's Party support an agricultural agreement, a possible transport agreement, or what might come, in the non-quota sector that is undermining our climate targets? That's very easy to answer. Do you want to be a part of this or don't you want to be a part of it? Is it important to you or isn't it important to you?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160801	I would say that what is primarily the aim of making agreements in the agricultural sector is to provide proper conditions for our agriculture and also to ensure that agriculture does not have a negative effect on the surrounding society. But I shall not be able to say what the priorities of the Danish People's Party are, because, as I said, this is not an area with which I am very concerned. So I hope that the rapporteur can ask our rapporteur about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160834	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160837	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. One also senses the text of the adoption, which was just read out, that the environment and responsibility for the future do not take up so much, but that the economy and self-sufficiency take up a great deal. I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur can give an example of a country where cheap energy supplies have been obtained by making it self-sufficient, in other words whether the rapporteur knows an example of a country where self-sufficiency has actually been economically beneficial.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217160915	There are, after all, many countries which have a large energy supply and which also have a cheap domestic energy supply, so I do not think we need to look for that for long. What I mean by self-sufficiency is that I think it is important that we have self-sufficiency, which means that we are not dependent on importing energy from other countries. I am thinking primarily of countries which may not always be friendly to us. We have poor experience of being dependent on oil from the Middle East, and there are other countries that have poor experience of being dependent on gas from Russia, so we should not be in that situation. That is why we in the Danish People's Party stress that we have a high degree of self-sufficiency in Denmark, so that we certainly do not have to import from countries with unstable regimes. We have no problem with importing energy from, for example. Sweden or Germany or other friendly countries, but self-sufficiency is important, and it may also have a price that is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161020	Perhaps that was what I was looking for, because in the Danish People's Party people are very busy saying that the fact that we are integrating wind power is very, very expensive. But now I understand that self-sufficiency is understood to mean that you can import from some countries if only they are sweet and friendly, as I understood that Sweden, for example. Is. I just have to say that I do not think it is an entirely optimal and serious way of discussing energy policy if you come up with a few headlines that you think sound good, such as. • cheap and self-employed, but otherwise do not go down in matter, as to how it should be done. What is, after all, the experience of all the countries that have to be self-sufficient is that they have to have too much overcapacity to wait for it to be needed, and it is certainly not economically viable either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161101	No, but that was also my point in what I said to one of the previous questioners that wind energy is not necessarily so cheap. Although it may be cheap on the individual kilowatt hour produced, it may not be so cheap because you have to have some other capacity next door, which has to be ready when the wind doesn't blow. Sir. Jens Joel may imagine that when Danish wind turbines do not spin around, because it is windless, we just buy some power from Sweden and Germany. That's very good if we can do that. But as the two countries also build more and more wind turbines and are more and more dependent on wind power, we are putting ourselves in a vulnerable position, because it may also be that their wind turbines are standing still due to lack of wind. So wind turbine current is not always the cheapest, because you also have to have some other capacity standing for when it's not windy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161155	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161159	Thank you. After all, I was delighted to hear that the rapporteur recognises climate change. In the COP21 negotiations here recently in Paris, one of the topics was, of course, what is called loss and damage, that is, that in the rich part of the world we have a responsibility to help in relation to the destruction that has already been created in the poor part of the world. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur, if that is not fair, when we, as one of the rich countries in the world, have a very high CO2 level. This is not something that will replace the need for schools or other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161301	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161302	In the Danish People's Party, we think that our development aid should be at a level called 0.7%. of GNP. That is the level recommended by the UN. However, I also consider this to stem climate change in poor countries as part of development aid, so it would be easy to imagine that some of the aid could be channelled. So we believe that it should be within the framework called the 0.7%. of GNP.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161337	It can be said that we have caused many of the poor countries an additional problem in the form of floods, droughts and such things, which are also creating some of the problems which will grow a great deal in the future, such as those of us. Mrs Abildgaard heard earlier. We can expect up to 200 million refugees. Perhaps it would also be to our own advantage if we gave some extra help in solving the problems on top of the usual aid for climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161411	I can hear that there is a political disagreement between the alternative and the Danish People's Party. As I said, we believe that an appropriate level of foreign aid is 0.7 per cent. of GNP. Within that framework, you could imagine helping poor countries to prevent the consequences of climate change. But that is the framework we think there should be. Then I understand that the author's party believes that the framework should be larger. That is what we must vote or negotiate in a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161445	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161454	Thank you for that, President. The UN climate panel concludes that we have had temperature increases of 0.85 degrees, measured from 1980 until today. If we do nothing, they predict that we will have temperature increases of 4 degrees by the end of this century. This shows that we have to do something about it and take initiatives, which is why it was a great pleasure to attend the COP21 meeting in Paris, where there was serious and hard work and a broad agreement was reached. We are all pleased about this, and I can also hear that we agree on this in this Chamber. It's good for Denmark. We can't save the climate alone. No matter how many measures we take, we will not be able to save the world's climate, and that is, of course, because these are cross-border challenges. But what we can do is that we can draw the rest of the world in the right direction, draw the rest of the world in Denmark's direction, and we must do so while ensuring a good investment climate. Because there are great potentials in our climate and energy vision and that we are one of the world's leading countries. That is something we welcome in the Left. But a competition in which the highest national sub-target can be achieved does not come out of anything useful. What is interesting to discuss is what is going to be done politically, and not just who can come up with the highest national milestone. We can see from the projection presented yesterday that the milestone had been achieved by, among other things: had started to use more biomass, and by having had a decreasing consumption of electricity. We will also be able to get a great result if there is much rainfall in Norway over a long period of time, which means that we can buy a lot and cheap hydropower. And that is why it doesn't matter how we get to the results that we want to measure or on which we measure ourselves. That is why it is important for the Left that we maintain that we must have long-term objectives for which we must work. And then we need to use our political energy to discuss and discuss what sort of instruments we are going to use to achieve the long-term objectives, as well as to feel instruments that still guarantee stability and predictability. It is not appropriate for us to have a government that makes statements about what you want in coal, what you want in gas and what you want in wind, as we have seen with the last minister. It is good that there has been criticism from the opposition side of the current minister. It's expected. But criticism could also rightly have been directed against the previous government, which came up with all the sub-objectives of the world, which created an uncertain investment climate that was certainly not appropriate. I therefore welcome the fact that, on the contrary, we have a minister who is hard-working and works fast. He works, for example. At the moment, we are about to present our grant and tax analysis so that we can discuss how to ensure the green transition. He is openly presenting what results are already available so that we can discuss what kind of instruments we need in the future. Those are the comments of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161856	Thank you. We have a number of brief comments to make. The first question is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217161902	Thank you very much. I'd like to sign for the speech where a lot of things were said. I would like to start by saying that the main reason why we are discussing climate targets is to thank the Left for this. That is because, as one of the first, it was decided to abandon an ambitious goal which the majority of the Danish Parliament is behind. It seemed to be a wise, well-considered and objective decision. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he can elaborate on what the wise thing is exactly is that we are going to go out in this long fight for a climate target that it even seems we are going to achieve. The rapporteur then put a great deal of emphasis on this: we are not going to discuss objectives; we are only going to discuss how to get there, but the two things are connected. I think that one has to be from the Left to see that there is a crucial contradiction there, because if we are to start discussing concrete action, then we have to talk about where we are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162012	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162013	As I said in my speech, we in the Left believe that we must pursue our long-term objective. We should not set up various lax sub-targets that have come out of some game that could be called "Think of a number'. What happened when you were doing the goal of reaching the 40%. After all, in 2020, it was a random target, and then you decided that you might also have to find out how to get there. Then a commission was set up to create a catalogue of remedies. I guess it's a catalogue of measures that resulted in those who had put themselves together to achieve this goal hastened to distance themselves from the results contained in the catalogue of measures. That is why I say that it is uninteresting who can come up with the highest sub-target. What's interesting is if we can reach our end goal. And I'm not saying we shouldn't have any sub-targets. We must, of course, have partial objectives, but we must get our milestones further forward. Of course, we need 2030 targets, and it is uninteresting who can come up with a 2020 target without telling us how to achieve it. It is certainly not the case that we are weeping that we can reach 40% of CO2 we welcome that in the Left. But whoever then said that we should have it as a goal is completely uninteresting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162128	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162129	I hope that the rapporteur can recognise that if you have a long-term objective, well to mark a very long-term objective, which today is called 2050's, it is a very good idea to flesh out how we get there: what are our medium-term guidelines for achieving the long-term objective? It is also to ensure that we do exactly what we have to do now: lift our eyes and say: what should our agricultural sector look like in, for example. 2025 and 2030 to achieve the long-term goal? What should our transport sector look like to achieve the long-term goal? I would ask the rapporteur just to define what medium pointers make sense to the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162216	We in the Left believe that we should have the pointers that we have in the European Union, so we have the milestones that we have in the European Union. That is also what must be our national objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162228	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162233	Thank you. In the alternative, we are glad that the Danish Energy Agency's projections show that we can probably achieve our goals. However, it is still uncertain whether it is 35%. or 44 per cent, we'll make it by 2020. But does the rapporteur agree that it is problematic that we are not doing enough in the sectors where it is most difficult, but inevitably having to reduce in agriculture, transport and housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162303	It is true that we have challenges with regard to transport and agriculture, and that is why I would say that yes, we must also do something about it in the long term. That is why we also need to have a debate on it in the Folketing, in other words on what we are going to do for the non-quota sector, so that we can have some initiatives that can handle it in some way. But what we just have to agree on when we discuss it from 2020 is that it has a price. That is why I have noticed and noted that many people are busy saying that you can just send the bill to agriculture or that you can just raise taxes. That is where we have different political ideologies. But there is also some practice in this. There is, on the one hand, the political ideology in the Left that we do not want to raise taxes. On the other hand, we have a situation in relation to agriculture that is that Danish agriculture is in a historic crisis. And that is why it is fine if we politically believe that we should send the bill to agriculture and then they must finance it, but the problem is that we cannot send a bill to someone who cannot pay it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162410	The questioner. He's giving up. The next question in the line is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162418	I noticed that Mr. Thomas Danielsen said that having goals created an uncertain investment climate. Mr. Thomas Danielsen, that there is a secure investment climate for the energy industry at the moment, and what interest organization will sign it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162441	What I said was that it is not appropriate to have headless hoof-saddles, for example. from the rapporteur's colleague maybe the next minister, but that is the rapporteur's previous colleague who came with one hoof after another about how much we should expand with sea winds, when we should phase out coal and when we should phase out gas. This results in an uncertain investment climate, which is why we in the Left welcome the fact that long-term planning is being carried out across all parties in the Danish Parliament in the energy reconciliation circle and that we are loyal to it, because that is what ensures a strong and good investment climate in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162521	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162522	I'd like to thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen to make me minister, just like that for half a second. Thank you. But Mr. Thomas Danielsen didn't answer my question. After all, there is no investor in this which believes that there is a safe investment climate right now. The Left created maximum uncertainty about the energy agreement a year and a half ago; it does not create security. Nobody knows what kind of framework we have to invest on, because no targets have been set. Well, then, sir. Thomas Danielsen say if there is any • Danish Energy, Danish District Heating, Association of Danish CHPs • who believes that there is a secure investment climate at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162559	Yes, Danish Industry has, for example. pointed out that they are pleased that a firm line is being maintained in the government and they support a hundred percent of the government's energy policy. So the line we have set has Danish Industry, for example. Reported that they approve. Whether or not they'll sign something like that directly, sir. Andreas Steenberg asks, you have to ask them. But at least they have said that it is a line they are happy about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162626	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162632	Thank you. Now, of course, the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party, like my own party, are concerned that the green transition that is to take place must be carried out in a cost-effective way, and this requires, among other things, that we develop new technologies all the time. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur why his party presented a financial bill which put forward such strong savings on the EUDP. We Conservatives did what we could to get it knocked down, but had had of course one must honestly say not the great success with it. There was an evaluation from COWI not very long ago, which showed that every crown invested in the EUDP received a return of DKK 2. And 50 cents, which shows that it's a pretty good business. So if we are to ensure the right technology development, is it not the wrong way for Denmark to cut energy research?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162730	We in the government have set the necessary priorities, and these are not all priorities that we have been equally happy to make, but they have been necessary. When we talk specifically about energy research, I would say that we have also given priority to some energy research, but on the other hand we have given priority to other energy research. For example: We have entered the "Mission Innovation" programme, which will mean that we will spend more money on energy research than Denmark has ever done in the past. It is more intelligent use of funds. That is something that means that we will suddenly also have it geared by private means. This is one way to use our funds more wisely, because we come into an exclusive company with some of the world's largest economies, which means that we also get some exclusive agreements in business, and it is important for the government that the energy research that is being carried out can translate into business. So I agree with the Conservatives and the rapporteur that it is important that we spend money on energy research. And what pleases me most is that we are now using them in an even more intelligent way, and that we have even made an agreement that means that we are going to spend even more money than we have ever done in Denmark before.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162852	I am surprised that the rapporteur can say that it is an even more intelligent way when a COWI evaluation shows that the return is 2 DKK. And 50 cents. After all, the EUDP funds are so mixed up with private investment, and it is good that the rapporteur can point to a small concrete project that has been chosen, but that does not change the fact that more than half the EUDP funds have been proposed. We Conservatives succeeded in adding a little more funds, so that we barely managed to avoid the halving. However, will the rapporteur not confirm that there are private funds in the EUDP as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217162926	Well, I have to say that it is not such a small project that the government has entered, but I would very much like to submit some material on it. It is a project that makes us invest heavily in energy research and doubles our investments; it makes us get more out of the money and it makes us get into an exclusive company of some of the world's largest economies. So this is certainly a more appropriate way of using our energy research. And I would very much like to sit with the rapporteur just to present what it is all about if it were to have passed the rapporteur's nose.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163008	Thank you. Next in line is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163012	One would hardly think that the Left and the Conservatives had together voted in favour of a draft budget earlier this day, which could afford to freeze the land and thus spend 755 million. kr., and where expensive cars could be paid for 360 million. kr., while cutting down on the large heat pumps, eliminating geothermal energy in the forward energy policy and cutting down on a wide range of green areas. That was a clear priority. I heard the rapporteur mention that the rapporteur wanted to ensure a good investment climate. I do not think that the fact that we are going in here and more than half the EUDP funds is going in that direction. When you read the reporting of EUDP funds, there is every reason why you should not have saved in that area. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that more could have been gained from having a higher level of EUDP funds, so that it could be supported by exports from Denmark of energy technology of 75 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163112	As I said to the previous rapporteur, not all these priorities have been set. When we took over the power of government, we had to acknowledge that the box was not linked and that is why we made tough priorities. So did we in this area. But what I saw at the same time was that I am delighted that we have now given even more money to the area in a more intelligent way, so we get into this exclusive company with some of the world's largest economies, because we want our research to be translated into business.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163153	But all that about whether the box was empty is something worse, because at the same time it has been found that it was quick to extend a housing job scheme, which is now going to cost 400 million. kr. Next year and 400 million the following year. So there's kind of enough money if the will is there. I do not think that these arguments are at all connected. I think it is a pity that we have had this debate and that the Left has been instrumental in putting Denmark's green reputation in such a bad light. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would not have been better to hold onto 40 per cent CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163226	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163227	In terms of reputation, I am immensely ashamed of the opposition. I must admit that. I am embarrassed that we have an opposition that travels around and plagues the good climate policy and the leading position we have in Denmark. Now I myself was Vice-President of the Committee on Climate and Energy during the last period. I certainly didn't always agree with SF's Steen Gade or the radical minister in the field, but I didn't run around abroad and exhibited the national disagreement that was, to score some cheap points at home. I must admit that I am very embarrassed by the way the opposition has exhibited ministers and so on. We also hear that Maria Reumert Gjerding says that the minister was flabby on the edge, etc., despite the fact that we just had a minister who to COP20 did not have any of these major meetings or was chairman of these large groups, which are otherwise talked about so much, and even returned from the COP before it was completed, that is to say early. I do not understand why there is such a hurry to harden the current government because we disagree on a few small small things at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163341	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163342	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur from the Left says that we must have long-term objectives and that we must have the EU target. That's what I understood. My question is, what is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163401	The Socialist rapporteur misunderstood that, if that is what the rapporteur understood. Because we do not have an EU target at this stage, but we will have to set out some EU objectives, and then we will have to deal with how we are going to stand for the years for which the European Union is setting targets. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163421	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163421-2	Unfortunately, that only gets us a little along the way, because it is true that in the non-quota sectors the European Union is going to give us an objective. And then it is just that I am asking whether we should not steer towards any goals in the other areas, or whether we should not be different from what the European Union is setting. After all, we cannot aim for the 40%, because it will not reach the European Union until 2030, and I assume that the Left believes that after all we should have rounded the 40%. Before that. I would argue that it is a little bad to be average in the European Union. I do not know so many Chinese business leaders who call the average to get a green solution. However, it is a little difficult to flesh out what the EU objective in the Left's optics means, and that is what I am trying to learn a little bit more.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163506	We are the leader in this area and must continue to be. What the Left is proposing is that we make objectives and political agreements in the energy conciliation circle, and there is just what I am saying is that we find it more useful to make political agreements in the energy conciliation circle and secure broad agreements and then tell us in concrete terms what we want to do and give priority to the money for it too, because objectives are such a little fluffy. As I have said, it may be because of the increased use of biomass, but it may also be because of a decline in the financial crisis, or what I know is that suddenly some objectives are reached. That is why our appeal is for us to achieve common objectives throughout the energy chain, so that we in Denmark stand shoulder to shoulder. That's our first priority. And then we have to go in and point out in concrete terms what we want. That is what we want to prioritise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163604	The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163607	I cannot understand why the rapporteur is so angry with the opposition when the opposition says that the government is going back on the climate targets that we have put forward. After all, it is not the opposition that has made it known to the rest of the world. As far as I know, Fossil of the Day was given before I even went to Paris, so I think the rest of the world has actually discovered it a long time ago. Well, then, sir. Thomas Danielsen began to scold some others, perhaps on his own government, for if you would not have had Fossil of the Day, you should have acted. The rapporteur also says that a good investment climate is important, and he then says that business praises this government. Then I would just like to remind the rapporteur of the Jyllands-Posten on 14 December, where Danish Energy is out to say: the climate agreement in Paris makes no sense if the Danish politicians do not start working to make the green transition more attractive. ▪ Is it Danish Energy that has misunderstood something, or what is it? Can the rapporteur clarify this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163704	I also very much welcome the fact that we were awarded the award for being the climate champion of the year at COP21, something for which the opposition was also not busy advertising because of the rush to harden the government because of some climate objectives which, in itself, do not really matter. What matters is how to act. As far as Danish Energy is concerned, they are quite right in saying that we need to look at how we can ensure the green transition. And that is why the subsidy and tax analysis that everyone is waiting for, which we both waited for from the previous government and are now awaiting from the current government, is so crucially important. And I am just delighted that the Minister has said that he will present as much of it as possible as soon as possible and expects it to be only in the new year, so that we can openly discuss how it is that we ensure a shift in energy so that we will use our energy more intelligently.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163801	One point that Dansk Industri and Dansk Arbejd have both made and I have noted that the rapporteur earlier, I would say such a little abused Danish Industry, but fair enough, following on from the Paris Agreement, is that they expect long-term goals to be achieved, also for Denmark, because it is necessary for investors to know what they have to comply with. Does the rapporteur agree with this and if the rapporteur agrees with it, what are the objectives we are talking about? In other words, what we have committed ourselves to in Paris, to which the European Union will also have to present Denmark, is a target by 2020, one by 2025 and one by 2030. What is the level of ambition for the government when you do not want to settle at 40%? By 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163846	I agree with Danish Industry and Danish Energy, to which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr referred, that it is important that we have some long-term objectives. That's also why we in the Left say that having this slingre course according to various sub-targets creates an uncertain investment climate, and that's not appropriate. Therefore, it is important that we pursue the long-term goals and that we do it broadly throughout the energy reconciliation circle, so that we stand shoulder to shoulder on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163915	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There was another one here on the doorstep. It's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163923	Thank you. If the rapporteur now recognises that the climate targets must be set in motion in relation to the transport sector, how does this relate to phasing out the subsidies for electric cars, so that the electricity market, the large electricity market, will be bypassed by Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217163940	After all, we have had a total tax exemption for electric cars, and what the total tax exemption showed was that this was not the right way to do it. We did not get the electric cars out on the roads that we had hoped and believed in, and therefore it just shows that it is not enough just to remove the tax on electric cars. All parties hope that this will be a success. Now a new electric car agreement has been made with a stair model, but I just have to say that only taxes are not enough for electric cars to get on the roads. We very much need to look at the municipalities and how they handle the electric cars in the municipalities. We can see, among other things. in the City of Copenhagen, that you have very great challenges dealing with electric cars properly, and that is one of the biggest barriers, I think, and I think that you should look a little more open-mindedly at how to make it more attractive to drive an electric car. It could be something with electric cars on bus lanes or other things, but so it is not necessarily just a matter of tax exemption or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217164051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217164052	It may be that the charges do not help all the way, but removing them does not help anything at all. How is it compatible with the government's ambitions in the field of transport that we then double up by also lowering the registration fee for expensive petrol cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217164113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217164114	After all, there is no link between what the registration fee is and how much is being derived, at least not one-to-one. Because we can see that even newer and bigger cars actually pollute less than the old cars we drive around in, and we drive around in an old car park at home. So there is no connection such to one between the discharge and then the registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217164147	Then we thank the rapporteur of the Left and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next one to which I give the floor is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217164210	Thank you. I agree with the Minister's statement, which was actually very thorough and very sensible if one can put it that way. I do not see that there should be the great uncertainty about the objectives in this way of understanding that it is the European Union that sets the framework, as the Minister mentioned. It goes without saying that very isolated Danish targets and sub-targets have not proved to be particularly suitable for environmental or economic purposes. After all, we are spending a great deal of money in this area in order to achieve the objectives, and I cross my fingers that in the future energy policy we will be much less concerned with steering for certain technologies with the morass of taxes and subsidies that we have developed, and then instead let the market drive the development that produces the best and the cheapest result. Much of the debate we have had this afternoon has, of course, been about whether one figure is better than the other. After all, the whole energy conciliation is a series of figures on a number of different technologies we choose out, and what has happened with the way of thinking, the planned economic way, that is to say, that you set up some figures, and then you see how things are going? As far as I remember, it was said that the energy settlement in 2012 would result in a CO2 so it has been 37 per cent. in the debate, not least in the last few months, and then suddenly it is called 40 per cent, without much change being made. This clearly shows that setting up a more or less random number is not what makes a difference. On the contrary, I think it is really unwise, as we do, for example. saw it in relation to the solar cells, where it was not a year before the technologies had changed so much that the Treasury was emptied by approx. 1 billion kr. Nevertheless, today's debate is a question of continuing to raise the bars by 2020 and then by the same logic, namely that we need to raise some figures. And then there is such a competition of goodness as I see it, which is that whoever comes with the highest number is the best person or the best party. I certainly think that experience shows that this is a really bad way of conducting politics, because it is not politicians who are changing the world anyway; it is technology development that is changing the world and technology development is taking place in leaps. Politicians only have the imagination they happen to have at the time, for example. standing here on the platform, and just having to have an opinion about something in 50 years' time, I think I'm absurd. It is absurd if it means draining money from people and businesses or adding costs to them simply because we are aiming for a certain figure in 50 years' time. It shows all the experience. After all, no one believes that any of those figures will fit, as society does not evolve linearly, and that is the regime I think we have only discussed today. So the planned economic approach of setting goals and milestones and then turning each other into one another if you do not reach some specific figure. Thomas Danielsen said it very correctly when he said think of a number, because you might not get that number at a certain time. It doesn't make much sense if it costs the way we conduct politics, and it often does, because if there wasn't a cost element, we wouldn't want to push a certain figure forward, because then it would come naturally, and that is why it is far, far more important for me to see that we have changed the future energy policy, and I think the Minister will agree with that, because I have heard very good signals about it. Instead of pointing out certain technologies and pouring a lot of money into it so much for biogas, so much for wind etc. We barely talked about anything else down in Paris, including international journalists. So it's 40 percent anyway, so what? You could say that. That makes no difference, because it is such a symbolic rhetoric that we have shown, and then we can compete to beat each other in the head with a number. I have said this many times before, I know that, but it is not a sensible way of conducting energy policy if you really think that what you are doing should help. If we have these very high local or national ambitions, we know that there is no climate effect in it and energy-intensive companies are taking jobs out of the country, and we think that is a really bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217164839	Thank you. And there are a number of brief comments. We'll start with sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217164845	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions the need for a level playing field. I would just like to start by reminding you that it is expected that the support given to fossil energy worldwide is somewhere between 400 and 2 000 billion. U.S. dollars a year. So here we already have a distortion which we cannot take into account directly in our own system. So this thing about the level playing field is kind of a dream that I'm thinking is very far away. But what I really wanted to ask was that of the new technologies. After all, when new technologies are entering the market, they must be up against great forces: all the existing technologies which have the market and which have experience and which have the possibility of providing a guarantee of operation. There was a recent article in the New York Times about a Dane who has such a new technology. He has fought a lot, he has needed support; it would not have been possible without support. Is there not a need for support for the type of new green technologies of which his technology is an example?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165005	I don't mind feeding a baby, but I don't mind feeding an adult. The wind turbines have been subsidised for 30-40 years or something like that. The fact that you are helping something at first, too, in some research environments and getting some tests done, is fair enough. That's common sense. However, building up an entire industry with ongoing subsidies, the citizens' money, to run the business on normal operating conditions, while other industries have to run on market conditions, obviously creates distortions in the economy, and these are some of the things that make you a poorer society. Our PRS tax is now 8 billion. kr., and I should like to say that if you look in the financing annex in the energy settlement, you can see that per. The year is 200 million. kr., 300 million. kr. there and up to 1.5 billion. kr. And now the total is 8 billion. kr. Yet there are lots in here that will have higher targets, i.e. more wind turbines and more solar cells and more biomass, which can only make the PSP even bigger. That's shooting past the dial. Yet, as I said, the floorboards are extended: we need more of the same, more targets, higher targets. That is the absurdity that I am trying to emphasise here with my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165132	But does the rapporteur think that we can simply not support these new technologies that are on the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165147	We held a conference on thorium 14 days ago in here. There were some young Danish researchers who could not get support because we have decided in the mid-1980s that everything that smells like nuclear power or nuclear power cannot be funded either from the Innovation Fund or by working with it at universities. I thought that was absurd. That's what the whole conference was all about. They had been recognized in England and had received a great deal of attention about it, but they have to leave the country because you can't do research in these areas. And I think that is a good answer to your question: of course we need to research new technologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165231	Could the rapporteur refer to the questioner in the third person? Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165238	Where the hell do I start? The rapporteur spoke of the importance of a level playing field. And then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that today there are no equal conditions and that today it is mainly black energy that receives the most state aid in the world, unlike renewable energy, and whether the rapporteur will fight for the two sectors to be treated equally? That's the first thing. Secondly, the rapporteur said several times that these figures are just coincidences and that we are still making it. I am just trying, with all due respect, to find out whether the rapporteur is seriously saying that, although we did not decide anything in Denmark, would the development still move towards more renewable energy and more electricity in our heating sector and other? In other words, if we did not do something, we would simply move there. Or what is the rapporteur really saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165340	On the first question of coal, oil and gas subsidisation, I would say that this is an international phenomenon. After all, we are not subsidising the oil industry in Denmark; on the contrary, we have 25 billion. kr. in income from oil. It is an international phenomenon, and there are many long ones, such as. Venezuela and others, where it is simply a matter of distribution policy and is absolutely essential for them to be able to run their societies. I have no desire whatsoever to work for fossil fuels to be subsidised. I am trying to take an interest in the Danish energy debate and climate debate, and I had expected that this was what we were going to discuss. On the question of whether renewable energy has only developed because of subsidies and taxes, I would say that it may well be that there will be some extra wind turbines when we are throwing so many billions into it, but it is not certain that it is sensible. Because it is an operating grant that has been given to the same industry for many years, as I have already mentioned. In my view, this does not create much development.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165500	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165501	However, if we now abolished all taxes or all subsidies for both renewable and black energy and, in fact, for nuclear energy, because it is one of the sectors in the world that receives the most subsidies, then I basically believe that it would be the renewable energy that would gain out, because in the long run it actually provides a better refund. But I just get a little shaken up. Because it seems that the rapporteur believes that technology development is merely driven by chance and not by political interference, and that Denmark has become such a large nation in climate technology is simply due to some husa-hovsa and not to a deliberate energy policy in the 1980s. Is that really what the rapporteur really means?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165554	I heard that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was getting into a point of view about the fact that the green energy itself would provide a better refund if there was nothing about taxes and subsidies. Well, then there's no need to do anything, because then it'll come on its own. I also believe that renewable energies will eventually become the most competitive. There is no doubt that at some point they will. But what I have a problem with is the top-down point of view you have in relation to this. Because when something has to be pushed through before the technologies are ripe, they will be far too expensive, and that is why we have a PRS tax of 8 billion. kr., which I mentioned just now, which is many hundred percent more than what was imagined in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165644	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165645	Thank you very much. We are in the midst of a very serious climate crisis that requires a comprehensive green transformation of our entire society. And, as I a little hear the rapporteur, the fact that we take political responsibility for where our society should move is some kind of absurd planned economy. I would like to ask whether the position of the Liberal Alliance is that we should work for the long-term climate objectives. Let's just look forward to 2050, where we're going to have a society that hardly emits CO 2 11⁄2 degrees temperature increase. Does the rapporteur think that this is something we should just leave to the invisible hand of the market and then we will achieve it in the end and then it will happen all by itself? And the rapporteur thinks that over 80%. of the fossil fuels will remain in the ground if we just leave it to the market?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165758	No, I don't think we should leave it to the market hundred percent. I believe that the way in which we should organise our energy policy must be able to include the fact that technologies compete on equal terms. And what does that mean? This could mean that we put a fixed price on some CO2 2 It is actually the case that wind turbines are set up for juveniles half the price in Sweden compared to in Denmark. We return to it over and over again, and I would say that we do not have anything against renewable energy, but we do have something against organising an energy policy which makes it much more expensive in Denmark than in other countries, because we want to boss one thing through, and because we must always shout the highest figure, as we have heard in this afternoon's debate, the one who shouts the highest figure is in one way or another in such a competition to be the best person, and I think that is absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165912	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217165913	I think that the rapporteur has mixed things up a little. One thing is to say that if we are to have a long-term goal, it is wise to have partial goals on the way there. It is unfortunate to reach 2040 and then suddenly find out that now we have to reduce CO2 It will be very, very expensive for the whole of society. I think the rapporteur will also acknowledge this. Then there is the second debate that the rapporteur raises, like the criticism of climate objectives, and that is that we have misorganised energy policy. I just need to understand. Is that what the rapporteur is arguing for, some kind of tax on CO2 because that could be a way of correcting the market? And it can be said that the huge damage caused by climate change globally in all sorts of places, including Denmark, is not included in the price paid for fossil fuels. Is that what the rapporteur is arguing for?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170008	To the first on sub-targets, I just have to say that I do not agree with the need to think linearly and set up sub-targets successively out of there in order to get the momentum that I have heard has been argued for. Because it will be absurd; it will be far too expensive because technology always surprises us. History has taught us that, and why shouldn't they do so for the next 50 years? So I do not agree with that, because it is a plan-economic approach. And then I don't remember the last question. The second Vice-President is right, because there is no more time either. ) Well!
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170044	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170047	Thank you. It is hardly a secret that the Social Democrats and the Liberal Alliance do not agree so much on climate policy, but I am now trying to put all that aside and try to understand what the Liberal Alliance means by this about making an offer. They say: We just want some energy, and we're in goose eyes, don't care if it's biogas or wind, for example, because now we're just paying, and then we let them compete. Then I understand that, from an economic textbook argument, it can be very sensible. And that's what Mr. I'm sure Villum Christensen would like to be. But it may just be a little hasty as energy policies, for Mr. Villum Christensen that it doesn't matter if we offer some megawatt hours or some joules, or what it is whether the market delivers 100 percent. biogas, or whether it delivers 100 per cent. wind? How are we gonna plan on that? How is this supposed to fit together in the system? That's what I'm not sure I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170146	It is not necessarily up to us to plan it. Now I am trying to understand the rapporteur's thinking, and it has somehow been incorporated into a planned economic code. In industry, the iron and metal industry, the abattoir industry, what do I know there are plenty of industries that work without them having state planning horizons. This can only mean that you have an industry that needs to know how much money they can pull out of their citizens' pockets in the various years. It is, of course, the approach that lies here, and that is what I think we should get out of. Now I remember the question from before: we also have no objection to putting a cost of CO2 it just has to be general for everyone. If you make a mess, it's fine for us that there are taxes on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170244	Now let's not make it more caricatured than it is. In fact, I am very serious about this, because it does not matter whether wind turbines are only being built. It is a problem if you just say that now you want as much megawatt as possible for the money, because then if we did it tomorrow, there would only be land wind turbines in Denmark. But it's a mess, 'cause we need something we can save for tomorrow. That's why it's good if some biogas comes in. For the windmills, as I said, seems best when there is wind. That's why I'm just saying this as energy policies. It is not because I want to be a plan Economist, but it is extremely difficult to imagine a system without planning. It is like saying that people can buy a train themselves and start driving without anyone laying the tracks. Well, we have to have a system that this is supposed to fit in with, and then it doesn't matter if everyone supplies wind energy or if we actually get a differentiation. That is what I would like us to enter into a serious discussion about instead of just having such an economic, theoretical paradigm that sounds great, that now we just need to have as much RE as possible for the money. I would like to understand that logic in relation to a planning horizon which is not wanted, but which I believe is necessary in the field of energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170344	I think that the individual citizen, or at least a very large number of citizens, does not care what the energy mix is like if there is power through the mains. I cannot say anything about this, because it depends on which new technologies are developing in the most favourable way. We saw it with the price of solar cells that have fallen, I think, by 80%. within a few years. It's turning everything upside down. That is why it should not be us politicians who do this. That's the whole point. We're really bad at it. I don't think we'll ever get 100 percent. biogas. It is the mix that provides the best security of supply, also in relation to external relations, etc. I do not believe in any particular technology, but a broad mix, I think, will benefit most socially.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170432	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170435	Thank you. I sense from the rapporteur a reluctance to set targets and work towards them. In other words, there is certainly no recognition of it as a working tool, and it may be a bit surprising when, for example, the Liberal Alliance has this big, chrome-plated 2020 plan, which has made a great deal of profiling. And I am thinking that it has been put, because you also have some sub-objectives in it, where you say that if you are going to achieve what the Liberal Alliance is dreaming society by 2020, it is that game plan, if we can put it that way, you have to follow it, and I think that logic also applies in this area. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. A few months ago we received a letter from among others. The directors from Grundfos, Danfoss, Niras, Kamstrup, Krüger and other large Danish companies ■ and I can't say from what date it is, because they haven't dated it that all of them stress that these sub-targets thus provide stability. It is companies that have to make large investments and, in order for them to have a guarantee of those investments, sub-targets are important. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170538	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170539	I recognise the corporate view that, if you are sure you can get money in the box, that is, the citizens' money, for a certain number of specific years, 10 to 20 years in the future, then you do so. I think I would recommend such sub-targets to energy policyers if I were sure of it. There is nothing strange about the fact that if you have the trunk deep down in the treasury, it is a very good idea to have security for a lot of years. That's what I'd think of as a company, but they can't do that in a lot of other industries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170609	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170610	After all, there is no guarantee that these companies will get anything out of it, and you can also choose to use other technologies. However, does the rapporteur not recognise that all research indicates that it will be a cheaper solution to take action now rather than to deal with climate change, which we know will come at the last minute, and that it makes better socio-economic sense with continuous, long-term efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170636-2	No, I certainly do not accept an argument that we should do something now that it is very costly. Because I believe, as I said before, that we do not have the imagination to imagine developments. I very much welcome the development of technology: why should there not be a huge leap in this area, as is happening in all sorts of other technologies? And then it is a waste of good public money that we have bogged down a certain development to achieve a certain milestone. I guess it's a very long horizon we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170710	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170713	It is amazing that the Liberal Alliance has so much against planning on a day when a Finance Act has been adopted for next year, and when it has also looked at what the economy will look like over the next three years. And, as part of the Finance Act, it has been adopted, among other things. a phasing-in of tax on electric cars that the Liberal Alliance has been involved in. It is, of course, a multi-annual plan that runs there. What I hear the rapporteur comes back to is that the rapporteur is in favour of this CO2 which means that the rapporteur is in favour of the idea that, if we are to achieve certain objectives, there must be some means of action. It could be a form of CO2 We can quickly agree that we could find a means for it, so we also got CO2 It could be really exciting to have it phased in. So I would like to know whether it is true that these free market forces have to be corrected by means of a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170817-2	It is perhaps very well worded, especially if we can agree that it is the direction that is crucial not to reach a certain number at a certain point in time. I've never seen the sense in that. But it must be a guide, and it is also if we say that there is something we would rather have than anything else, as long as we guarantee free competition. That is always what will give the best economy, rather than well-meaning politicians going out and pointing out some very specific technologies. That is what I think is hopeless, as history has shown. After all, we need no longer than a few years back to see that people wasted hundreds of millions of dollars on solar cells. So we have the examples in a string of pearls, so we can understand this point of view, but it's not like that in here in the Folketing. Here politicians will decide far more than their abilities can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170909	Well, the framework conditions that we decide politically are, of course, very important. They are, among other things. about how we use the renewable energy produced in Denmark. After all, we are in a situation where wind power has a negative price for a few hours. In a few percent of the time it has an extremely low price, and then there are approx. a quarter of the time, when it has too low a price, we just have to sell it abroad and where we could use it at home in our district heating system by putting it into some big heat pumps. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not see that there are some framework conditions that could improve so that we got more out of our renewable energy produced in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217170948	Absolutely. It is quite hopeless that we have set up so many wind turbines, and when the wind blows, we cannot use the energy. Then we pour PSO support into the windmills and give it away to the Norwegians and then buy back expensive energy when the windmills stand still. Yes, we have many paradoxes in our charging system. I've been out saying that a lot of times. I also agree that we must have the wind energy that we now have at our disposal into the heating system, and we will not get that until we have the electricity taxes reduced. I am one hundred per cent in agreement with the rapporteur on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171022	The next question is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171027	I understand, sir. Villum Christensen (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Liberal Alliance is very outraged by the fact that money is being sold out, I think it was said, in order to support the achievement of some objective and that it was a completely wrong business policy. That's why I just want to ask Mr. Villum Christensen, why the Liberal Alliance supports the granting of so much state aid to agriculture, and why we also support this financial law, where agriculture is going to have 1.5 billion. kr. more in State aid. I guess that's double standards compared to that, sir. Villum Christensen just said.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171058-2	It may well be that there are special conditions in agriculture at the moment which can prove that the framework conditions of agriculture are being set in a special way. We know, of course, that agriculture is already badly affected by the environmental policy we are pursuing and that this system is distorted by the fact that we are making far more demands in Denmark than they do in other countries. So, in terms of competition, you are weaker on a number of parameters. It has nothing to do with the fact that we are discussing energy policy today, where I ask how we are going to organize this most sensibly. We are doing so in a more market-compatible way, and I think the radical rapporteur agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171149	But the double standards are driving down Mr. Villum Christensen. There are apparently some special conditions in agriculture that require a lot of state aid, after all, it is billions of dollars. However, when we talk about tackling climate change, the public must not spend any money. Is Mr. Willum Christensen does not agree that the Liberal Alliance's support for massive state aid to agriculture is in a fairly large and double standard contrast with that, Mr President. Willum Christensen has been saying here about climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171220	If you could take each other's hands across countries and say that there should be no support for agriculture anywhere, then I actually think that Danish agriculture would be very good. And I also know that they would like to see you completely out of all this support regime. So my general point of view is: let us have as little control as possible. I have no particular desire for the industry to be supported cross-cuttingly. I think we have a common task in getting as efficient an economy as possible, and that is by keeping our hands off the professions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171302	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171305	Well, one is agricultural aid, and it is an EU issue that I think even the current government agrees that it should be phased out in principle. Another is the Finance Act which was adopted here at the beginning of today's sitting, in which, in concrete terms, it is not through agricultural subsidies, not through the international rules, but out of the fund, financed by Danish taxpayers, that a particular profession is taken into account. It's sir. Villum Christensen not only contributes to this by voting in favour, it is, after all, the declared policy of the Liberal Alliance. So the question remains: why is it that there is one industrial policy in relation to agriculture and another in relation to the energy sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171345	Now I think it's a little important to draw the proportions into this. We can see that we have some sectors where electricity is produced. Out on the market we can get power to 10-15 cents a large part of the day. If you set up wind turbines, it costs between 80 øre and 1.05 kr. It is, of course, massive aid to certain specific sectors, very selective aid. When you go out across industries, I think we are over in the more general framework rather than targeting it. I think the most problematic thing is when you go out and target your specific support for one thing or another. I am not in favour of that. However, overall, I think that we should certainly reduce the level of professional support in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171447	Now I think that most of the business support provided is actually given quite specifically. After all, all the schemes that exist are designed for some specific purpose, and one of the largest clusters is agricultural aid. But one question remains unanswered. When today, with a Finance Act, a final Finance Act has been adopted for 2016, where, at the request of the Liberal Alliance, a lot of tax dollars are spent on agriculture, which is already one of the most supported sectors, it is probably precisely because one sector has been chosen which one considers to be separately eligible, and it is just a question of whether one does not want to choose or not to choose, but that one prefers agriculture over the energy sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171533	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171534	I believe that the framework conditions of agriculture in Denmark are more difficult than in other countries, as I said before. And if you have to go for some equality in that area, as it is very competitive, that is probably one of the ways you can do it. And I think it's something quite different than going out to choose and saying that we're going to give exactly so many cents per. kilowatttime for a particular type of technology. I do not know whether I can explain it thoroughly enough, but the broader aim is something other than the very selective and preferably I saw that as much business support as possible was reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171619	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur for the alternative, Mr President. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171637	In the alternative, we are so pleased that we have now reached a global climate agreement with a clear goal of striving not to increase global temperature more than 11⁄2 degrees. It is really crucial with such an objective that we, like the butter hole we are in Denmark, must work hard to contribute to achieving such an objective. The global climate agreement means that, both in 2018 and by 2025 and in 2030, we will have to re-evaluate and adjust our targets upwards in order to contribute to the slowing down of global temperature increases. In addition, Denmark is required to reduce emissions from the non-quota sector by up to 39% through burden sharing in the EU. By 2030. That is why we are puzzled by the alternative that the government is downgrading the level of ambition for their reduction contributions and, at the same time, presenting a financial law, a growth proposal and an agricultural package, which together provides an annual emissions of up to 1.7 million. t CO2 This makes the government now that we can still financially benefit from thinking long-term and large in order to achieve a timely green transition in Denmark, and this is so incomprehensible to us in the Alternative. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: where does the government really want to see Denmark, not just when the term of government has expired, but in 10 years, 15 years? What is the Minister's long-term vision for the sustainable conversion of our country? What kind of country are we going to create in the future? The new energy projection from the Danish Energy Agency leaves plenty of room for an ambitious line between 35% and 35%. 44 per cent and 44 per cent. in 2020, especially when we need to re-evaluate our massive use of non-CO2 and, of course, we also need an ambitious target for 2030, which really sets a high reduction standard that includes non-conducting factors, especially the particularly challenging non-quota sectors. We very much hope that the Minister can follow the rationale of taking responsibility and thinking long-term when it comes to making our way of life and our society much more sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171902	There are no requests for short remarks, so we thank the alternative rapporteur. The next to speak is the rapporteur on the Radical Left, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217171914	I think the government we've got is what I call a nothing government. We do not really have any goals and ambitions for what is going to happen, and that is not just true here in climate and energy. It also applies to what the tax burden should be or what must come from labour supply in order to solve the challenge of companies with labour or where research funds or whatever they may be. In the climate and energy sectors, virtually all the objectives of the SR government have been dropped, about how much we have to reduce the climate load, when the natural gas has to be phased out, so that we can get green gases instead and when we have to get away from coal and everything else. There are not really any objectives in the climate policy that exist. There is a long-term goal that one does not really have any vision or attitudes about how to move towards. We think that is a pity, and we also think it is a pity that yesterday there were some new figures showing that we are reaching this 40-percent target, we have discussed a great deal of things, why we do not seize the opportunity and say: Top, we can achieve 40 per cent reduction and stick to it, so that we do not adopt anything that goes the other way in the coming years. We find that a pity and, contrary to what Mr. Thomas Danielsen of the Left said, we do not believe that it benefits investment. I got sir. Thomas Danielsen to answer that Dansk Industri is satisfied with the Finance Act, but Dansk Industri does not invest in energy production. Those who are in the field of energy production say: what are the framework conditions that will apply? Among other things: Danish District Heating and the Association of Danish CHP plants say it's a pretty big problem that we can't sit down and do these sub-targets, these goals and the policy behind them, for example. when it comes to taxes and subsidies not least to get more renewable energy in district heating. We think this is a pity, and we will, of course, continue to advocate from the Radical Left that some of these objectives should be set.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172130	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The rapporteur has resigned. I do not see SF's rapporteur in Parliament, so we move on to the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172203	Thank you. Before I become more specific about the Danish climate targets, I would like to take a few minutes to elaborate on why I and the Conservative People's Party believe it is so important to set ambitious climate targets and work to achieve them. As conservatives, the intergenerational contract means a lot to us. There is a straight line of responsibility from our dead ancestors to those on earth today and to the children born in the future. The generation contract is not a smart buzzword that some advertiser has got a fortune to invent. It's conservative legacy formulated by Edmund Burke. After all, the generation contract should permeate all the work we do here in the Parliament: when we fight to keep the sovereign debt down to leave a healthy economy for future generations, when we research and so on. It's with them in mind that we work here in the Folketing. Each generation has had its manhood test. Some have fought in wars for Danish independence, others have fought for growth, prosperity and the development of a welfare state. Every battle has been important, but no fight has been more important than the one we face, namely the fight for the climate. More than 50 years ago, Conservative Finance Minister Poul Møller said that the main problem of the future will be smoke, noise and pain. He was right. The struggle for climate and future generations has always been conservative. It has not been a long time since fear seized Paris in a cruel way. But last weekend Paris became the symbol of hope, when world leaders let the future of the community weigh higher than short-term self-interests. The world got its global climate agreement. The direct television pictures from Paris were touching and historic, and it was clear that the redemption after 20 years of climate negotiations was enormous. South Africa, which is hit hard by climate change, took the floor during the final plenary session and took the opportunity to quote Nelson Mandela. They said, "When you've climbed a mountain, you'll find that more are waiting. And they're absolutely right. World leaders have not finished climbing mountains. In fact, the very first hilltop has only just been rounded. We should not underestimate the value of the fact that so many countries could agree on the objective of keeping the temperature rise to a maximum. One-and-a-half degrees above pre-industrial level, but ambitions, declarations of intent and toast speeches do not move mountains, and a battle plan must be put in place for achieving the targets. And with the plans that world leaders have made so far, we will continue to experience temperature increases at more than we can handle. That is why it is imperative that the ambition mechanism, which is part of the Paris Agreement, to ensure that the countries have their plans reviewed, be fully operational and respected by all. Thus, the national climate objectives and work to meet them have a central role in the new buttom-up-based climate agreement. In the Conservative People's Party, we support national climate targets. This provides a direction for the conversion of energy sources. It provides security for green investors, and it contributes to more green Danish jobs. That is why we also voted in favour of the Climate Act together with the previous government, which meant that we adopted a CO2 by 2020, and I say yes because we had the reservation that it should not cost Danish jobs. Nor is there any indication that this will be done, and the projections that came the other day show that we are probably somewhat closer than what we have previously assumed. 2020 is just around the corner, which is why we should already start looking towards 2030 and, like Germany, should have a national Danish reduction target for 2030. Our long-term goal is 2050. Here Denmark must be independent of fossil fuels and have made a total green change. France ended the climate meeting with another Mandelacitat. It was: It always seems impossible until it is done. Let the hope that Paris has given us strengthen us in the belief that the impossible is possible. We owe that to future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172647	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172653	Thank you very much. I would like to sign up for a fine speech by the Conservative rapporteur, and I really just have a very simple question: does the Conservative People's Party still stand completely behind the 40 per cent target. CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172713	The Conservative People's Party voted in favour of the Climate Act, where we introduced a target of 40%. CO2 No new law has been adopted since then, so we still think that should be the guideline.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172729	Does the Conservative People's Party agree with me that a minority government must always navigate after a majority of the people, and that in this case there is still a majority in parliament for a CO2 reduction by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172747	A majority in the Folketing still believes that we should strive to reduce our CO2 by 2020. It was there before the election, and it's still gone after the election. As such, nothing has changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172802	The next question is Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172807	Thank you. I just have one question. I understand that the Conservative rapporteur had been on the Stock Exchange telling us that the Minister was embarrassing and such things, because it turned out that we reach 40% before we had expected it. What is most embarrassing to the rapporteur is to shout and scream about 37 per cent, which is actually 40%. and not 37%.? What is most embarrassing: to make a lot of trouble over something that makes no sense meaningful and which is purely symbolic legislation, or the fact that the Minister is doing a status where it turns out to be better than it did a year ago? What's most embarrassing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172903	I would very much like to respond to that by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. What is embarrassing is that the Minister went out on the front page of the Stock Exchange and hammered extremely hard to the Conservative People's Party and said that the target of 40%. reduction would be hugely expensive and was virtually impossible to achieve. It was pointed out how many jobs this would cost. At that time we said by the conservative side: should we not wait and see the latest figures coming at the end of the year? The Minister evidently did not think so, for he must have been very sure about his case. That is why I find it embarrassing to see that the Minister obviously had no reason to be so sure in his case and certainly not to go out on the front page of the Stock Exchange with such postulates.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217172946	This shows precisely that the extra effort has not been taken into account. You don't even talk about the extra bets to come from the 37 percent. to the 40%. They're the ones you have to deal with. As long as you think it's 37 percent. And you want to reach 40%, more wind turbines, more biogas plants, and what do I know, and that costs x number of crowns. I guess that's perfectly logical. That's the regime we're in. So I can't believe that you can exhibit this as a nonsense, because it says a lot more about that it's nonsense to go for a random number when we never really know what that number is. In other words, a policy which is just based on some figures, I think is inappropriate. That is what I said in my rapporteur's speech. So I think you should be careful not to use words as embarrassing when it is your own case that is almost absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173038	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173039	I agree with the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance that there is a very great deal of uncertainty about these figures, and therefore I think we should be careful to throw them on the front page of the newspaper and knock others on their heads and claim that their ambitions are impossible. That's why I said I thought it was embarrassing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173059	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173110	Thank you to the rapporteur for bringing the global view from Paris into the Parliamentary Chamber. I think that we sometimes need this when we need to understand why it is that we are taking some specific measures and why we are setting targets that point a little forward in time, targets that could perhaps go as far as 2020. I thought it was gratifying to hear that the rapporteur confirmed that the Conservatives are still in favour of a 40-percent CO2 target. I am well aware that there is this dilemma that it must not cost jobs and I have plenty of proposals on how it could be achieved. However, I also think it is worth considering whether we could spread the debate and to what extent we could involve pension funds, municipalities, housing associations and other parts of civil society, because I think we have some momentum on top of the climate summit, where we, together with civil society actors, can do something more. I would like to know whether the Conservatives agree with those considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173209	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173210	That seems to me to be some interesting considerations. I agree that there is a momentum on top of the Paris meeting. After all, we know that there are plenty of companies that are on this agenda and who want to make investments, including pension funds, etc. I don't think we should forget about the citizen's perspective in this either. So let us not forget the personal responsibility that each of us has. I am well aware that it may not move much in the big climate accounting, but I think it is quite crucial that we are also aware that each of us has a responsibility in relation to the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173244	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173250	Thank you. It is true that the individual person also has influence with his shopping cart, on his bike, and when you choose the holiday that you think you can afford or that you think you want to burden the globe with. It is good to run information campaigns about this kind of thing, and something can be legislated for. But I think we have a great obligation to set a framework that is to operate after as a municipality, as an energy company or as a housing association. So I really think that, as politicians, we should have the greatest focus on what kind of framework we are setting. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that we should try to find a road map on how we can involve more players in the further process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173338	Here you go. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173339	Well, I think that sounds very exciting, and I would like to hear a little more about what the questioner has done about it. I don't have a master plan on the paper I have here, but I think it's obvious to get as many actors involved as possible in this work. So I guess we can talk about that afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173356	Then it's mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173358	Thank you. It's kind of the same thing. There has been a lot of talk today that we are in full swing in the energy sector, but here comes, for example. This is an agricultural package which seems to push us back a little. How do the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party think that we could get the agricultural sector and the transport sector and the other non-quota areas into this climate work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173428	I do not want to say too much about the agricultural package, because negotiations are still under way. However, I can say so much that we are concerned about what CO2 is, as far as the non-quota sectors are concerned, we know that we are getting commitments from the European Union and we know that they are going to be at the high end. So it is indisputable that we are going to look at those elements too. Especially in the transport sector, we have to say that we have challenges. I see some exciting thoughts throughout the Maabjerg Energy Concept over there, which I also hope we can discuss in more detail here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173506	Then there are no further comments. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217173515	Thank you, President. I would actually like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, because I thought it was very nice to get the global perspective into the debate, but perhaps also some of the considerations that come from some of the developed countries. So I have to say, I just felt like the ceiling was lightening a little bit. That was nice. There is no doubt that there was light and joy in Paris when an agreement was finally reached. Some of us who have been following the climate negotiations over the many years they have been feeling that it was almost impossible for it to be possible to reach a legally binding agreement, and that is what we achieved. After all, the climate obligation is not just for business, although there are major business interests at stake, not least in Denmark. The fact that a legally binding agreement has been drawn up in Paris has a major impact on Danish business, as this means that countries must start investing in order to achieve targets by 2020, 2025 and 2030, on which they themselves have committed themselves. This will mean new export opportunities for Danish energy companies, not only those supplying renewable energy, but also in the energy saving sector. It is when you find out how to make better windows; it is when you put better pumps in the system etc. etc. Many Danish companies will benefit from this. But most importantly, the obligation we have to our children and grandchildren to leave a planet in the same condition as we have received it in. Imagine if you borrowed something from your neighbor: then you would never come back with it, at least not without being a little ashamed, if you had destroyed it or it was broken or otherwise had suffered damage. And that is exactly what we are doing at the moment with our children and grandchildren if we do not take responsibility for ourselves. So, yes, I was happy on Saturday when there was an agreement in Paris. We should also remember that what Paris then forces us to do is first of all not only relate to the two-degree objective, but actually to the one-and-a-half-degree objective. Secondly, Paris also obliges us to look at it every five years, and not just every ten years, as set out in the EU's commitment plans. Five-year evaluations must be provided; this is the mechanism contained in the Paris Agreement. Then it's legally binding. It requires climate finance, where Denmark has otherwise gone in the opposite direction. It demands 100 billion. Dollars and turn up after 2020. So these are binding obligations which also bind the Danish Parliament and the Danish Government. Of course Denmark has come a long way, but we must contribute to the EU's objectives both in 2025 and 2030. And there I think the government still lacks an explanation or an indication of what it should be: what are we going to negotiate in the European Union? There should be no doubt that the SF says very clearly that we want a target of 55% for 2030. We're at 40%. By 2020, we can reach 55%. in 2030, and then we'll have to discuss what it's gonna be in 2025. However, we need to set clear targets. These are not random figures that people have understood on this platform in the past, it is precisely to ensure a proper investment opportunity for Danish business, but it is also to make the right choices in good time. It is thus a good economy; it is responsible economic understanding that you do not jump from tue to tue, but have the long aim in mind. Then Denmark also has a commitment in the climate field in relation to climate finance. We have thus played out that we are going to give 500 million. kr. a year in climate finance, but now we have turned it down. The last time we had the discussion on this was yesterday in connection with the financial law debate, and it was quite clear that we are talking about 375 million. kr. So we turn down the ambitions that we have otherwise announced in the past and therefore we do not deliver on our commitment. The most interesting thing, and where the government really has to come forward in the shoes, is the question of the non-quota sector. It is not true that agriculture should not contribute. It is not right to say that the transport sector should not contribute. That's the new one from Paris. And it will be an interesting discussion how we will get the transport sector to deliver a goal. One of the things that was abolished in the Finance Act was that you could drive more green in business. It may sound a little bit like that, what does it contribute?• but it does contribute thousands of tons if people just drive more green. Many companies have already gone in this direction because they can see that it matters on the bottom line. For that matter, the agricultural checks could also be abolished and, last but not least, the insurance scheme could be abolished on geothermal sites. It was three things that all helped to go in the right direction; now we are going in the wrong direction in this Finance Act. So I think we still need to discuss some ambitions for the Danish follow-up to the goals. We can do something, we should do something. And we could start by saying to the government that we expect there to be a tax analysis that will make it easier to use electricity rather than biomass. It will be a step in the right direction. However, I would like to thank the authors of the question for the debate. I think it has been crucial that we have swung a little up to the ceiling, but also that we have come all the way down and have discussed in concrete terms what the government's priorities are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174032	Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174036	Thank you. Now I had perhaps the naïve performance when I heard that we have now found that we have reached a 40% reduction. in 2020, that SF would be well pleased with it and would think it was really good, because I thought that was the objective. But I understand that SF thinks we should just keep going in that track and have even bigger reductions. It is then a political position that the SF may have. Then I would like to hear how SF thinks we should achieve the higher goals. Does the SF still stand behind this catalogue of measures that the government of which the rapporteur was a part presented a few years ago? There they operated, among other things. to reduce the speed of motorways in order to promote the climate. Or, in the interests of the climate, will the transport allowance be reduced so that it becomes more difficult for people who have a long way to go to work to transport themselves to their workplace? Or, for the sake of climate, will higher taxes be levied on fuel for people's vehicles? Is that the way SF wants to go? Is that what was presented a few years ago when we sat in government, which we still support?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174147	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174149	I get a tiny bit warm about the heart when I hear the Danish People's Party say that it is good that we can reach 40%. in 2020. It almost sounds as if the Danish People's Party now also thinks it is a good idea to reach 40%. in 2020. I hope so, because then there is a broad political consensus in the Folketing that we must achieve 40%. in 2020. But it doesn't end there. I know that Dansk Folkeparti also regularly has a good contact with the Danish business community and also therefore know that they want to have a secure framework conditions. I have recently had the pleasure of having a debate with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Mikkel Dencker, where the rapporteur has just said that broad agreements are important to ensure stability in this area. That is why we have reported very clearly from the SF that we believe that for 2030 we should have a reduction target of 55%. It's possible to reach. You mention some of the elements in the medium catalogue. I have mentioned some others. I mentioned, among other things. Geothermal, I mentioned the issue of professional driving green, and I mentioned the agricultural check to mention some of the elements. I would like to mention one more element: building two offshore wind farms and deciding on this by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174253	Thank you. We must not use direct indictments against Members. Here you go, sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174256	I can then confirm that we in the Danish People's Party think it is important that in this area there are some agreements which, for the sake of business investment security, are quite broad. That's right. But what I really asked, and what I did not get an answer to, is whether SF still thinks that for the sake of CO2 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174332	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174333	I can answer no to all three questions from Mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174342	Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174350	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the fact that the rapporteur was out with such a very harsh criticism of the government's growth and financial law proposals, because more CO 2 is being emitted in this context, I would like to ask: what has happened since 2013 when the rapporteur himself was a minister in the government? At that time, a proposal for growth was presented, which actually derived about the same thing as what the current government has just presented? What has happened since 2013, when the rule did not apply in the same way as it apparently does today, when you are in opposition?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174435	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174437	First of all, Mr. Thomas Danielsen has noted that the growth plan to which the rapporteur refers, namely growth plan II, was adopted after the SF resigned from the government. I was a negotiator in the Treasury myself. I'm just saying that to make it clear that we weren't in government. However, the requirements apply both in relation to previous growth plans, but also in relation to current growth plans. I note that the Minister for Finance says very clearly in an answer that, on the basis of the Finance Act, 600.000 tonnes will be added. And I certainly think that is worthy of criticism; I think that is something I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174520	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174523	Thank you. Yeah, it was 2013. Now there has been opposition, and other buns have been put on the soup, also in relation to what the rapporteur has said, namely that we are doing far too little for transport and one of the most disadvantaged areas. After all, the rapporteur, when she herself was Minister for Transport, could have taken some initiatives. The price of public transport could have been reduced, which could have motivated more people to take public transport. I even believe that this was something that was put to the vote, that is to say included in its electoral programme. But what was the reason why all these good green initiatives should not be implemented when the rapporteur had the power to do so and the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174603	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174606	Thank you very much for that, sir. Thomas Danielsen. I'll take note of that, sir. Thomas Danielsen probably hasn't followed the climate zone at the time. But some of that, among other things. This was done in the Ministry of Transport, while I was Minister for Transport, because a green committee was set up to look through the various possibilities in the climate area. That committee was supposed to have carried out something right now, but the new government has chosen to shut it down and chose that the new climate ambitions in the transport sector should not be exposed to the public. I think that is actually thought-provoking. It is a clear statement that there is no green ambition in the current government. In addition, I would say that S, SF and R reduced fares by 20%. It was precisely on the basis of the ambition to get more people into public transport and to get more people to put the car down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174659	Thank you. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174703	Thank you. I just have one question, and it was for this with the many new wind turbines. I understand that the rapporteur envisages two new wind farms, that was an example, and we also see that competition to get the highest figures continues well. I wonder what the outcome will be if we continue with the debate until 1 p.m. 12 tonight. Because now we're up to 55%. and then even more wind turbines and even more jobs. We've heard that so many times. I remember that when we had the Red Government, we wanted to make various growth packages. And what was characteristic of energy policy was that we pushed the construction of some wind farms to create growth, because then we got funding to reduce some taxes and some taxes. How can growth be achieved both by setting up more wind turbines at sea and by not setting up more wind turbines at sea? Is it such a special SF logic or a special magician in this area when it is called energy policy and employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174807	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174808	I sense that in the Liberal Alliance, they are a little sad that they are not participating in the energy negotiations. For it was precisely in the energy negotiations that Kriegers Flak was chosen to be postponed by one year. And the reason why it was postponed by one year and not just so for all eternity, but one year, was that already at that time a great many wind farms were built and that it made sense in relation to the labour force, that is to say, that there was simply to be available labour. So it kind of made good financial sense. And the SF, unlike the Liberal Alliance, is very concerned about the socio-economic aspects. We believe that investment should be made where it produces the most socio-economic effect. It is therefore also obvious that we in the Folketing are already starting to decide that we should invest in two new offshore wind farms. After all, it is not some people who will have to be built tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but we must continue our ambitions. After all, the energy negotiations have just set out to start discussing the next offshore wind farms, and I would like to state clearly that it expects SF to discuss in the energy reconciliation circle by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174910	There will then be no further brief comments, thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217174926	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate and a huge commitment. After all, when you hear the rapporteurs in this area, there is a debate where there is a great deal of commitment, it is not least when we discuss the climate of the future, and thank you for that. In fact, I think it has been a good and constructive debate and I would also like to thank you for the many speeches. Perhaps on a day like this one you could enjoy how well things are actually going for the Danish climate and energy policy. If you look at the figures in the base projection that we got yesterday, then there is actually good reason to smile and perhaps on a day like this one too, be very happy, because this is not least because we in a very broad majority here in the Danish Parliament in 2012 have adopted a very, very ambitious climate and energy policy towards 2020. When we reached the agreement, we were all happy, and there was great satisfaction, and we rejoiced at what things were before us and how far we would go in a number of areas. When you look down over the chart on a day like this, you can, for example. welcome the fact that when we made the agreement in 2012, we all rejoiced that we would reach 35%. CO 2 more than we are committed to in the European Union. Now the figures came yesterday, and they show that we reach 40%, and there may be grounds for rejoicing. When we concluded the energy agreement, we expected to reach 35%. renewable energy by 2020, but we reach 40%. renewable energy by 2020. When we concluded the energy agreement, the expectation was that 50%. of electricity consumption would be based on wind energy, but we reach 54 per cent. in 2020. I have to say that on all parameters we go much further than expected. I would also like to say that it was based on broad consensus here in the Folketing, and I am actually very, very pleased that we have broad energy conciliation, which covers virtually the whole of the Folketing. It provides certainty as to what framework applies to climate and energy policy. It may be said that it has become a bit expensive, and I would agree with that, and I would also like to congratulate the Liberal Alliance. That is why it is perhaps also very good that we have a watchdog there, who may sometimes not be barking, because that is so violently said, but we must also bear in mind that there is also a price associated with the green transition. But when you look at the direction, you can see that it's going the right way. Denmark is • and I myself saw this in the context of the climate summit • quite, quite centrally located. Almost regardless of the statistics you are looking at, Denmark is among the countries in the world that are highest in terms of the share of renewable energy and in terms of the reductions in CO2 I think that I have actually used the last week to enjoy it, and fortunately we were also many who rejoiced about it. And one of the reasons for this is, of course, the broad majority behind energy policy here in the Folketing, and I would like to thank you for that. I would also like to mention that energy and climate policy also have some business potentials and not just potentials, but also gains. So in addition to ensuring that the world has a better climate, the climate agreement from Paris also means that Danish industry will have new opportunities, and we must do everything we can to make the best possible use of them. After all, the rest of the world must start a green transition, and much of that they can draw inspiration from in Denmark. We've been at the forefront of this field for so many years. Exports of energy equipment reached 75 billion last year. kr., and the expectation is that the climate agreement from Paris means that we can increase that export by 50 billion. kr. Towards 2030. It means increased income for Danish society, it means more jobs, and it really also creates the basis for part of our welfare and the opportunities to pursue an ambitious climate and energy policy. In fact, I think that, in a day like this, too, is a reason to rejoice very much. So I think there's a lot to enjoy. I would also like to say, in relation to the discussion on objectives, that the government's objectives are the European Union's objectives, which we are looking for. However, we are also prepared that when we arrive at 2017 and when the European Union has allocated the task of the reductions that have to be made in each country, and there is also the overall objective, we should set ourselves down and set a target for how far we should be by 2030 and how we deal with that task. That is also the reason why, over the coming months, the government will set up an Energy Commission, in other words to get good recordings and kicks into how we organise climate and energy policy from 2020 to 2030, so that we also achieve those goals in as efficient and hopefully cheap a way as possible. So these were my introductory remarks, but I would like to say thank you for a very good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175524	There are some brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175531	Thank you. I very much agree with the Minister that it is very gratifying that in the Danish Parliament there is such a great commitment to what is today's absolutely greatest challenge, namely to deal with climate change. I also very much agree with the Minister that it is gratifying that it appears that we are reaching the target of 40%.; work still needs to be done for it, but we aim for it and get there. I am also very pleased with the debate we have had today, but it annoys me so much that the government has chosen to create all that uncertainty. It annoys me a lot, and I think it was stupid to drop the target as soon as you got to it, especially when it looks like we're actually going straight to it. I thought it was incredibly stupid to go against a majority of parliament, and I thought it was stupid to create so much uncertainty for everyone, investors and all kinds of people in Denmark. It was foolish to do so and thereby create the negative awareness internationally. I hope that with this question today it has been made clear to the Minister, for the government, that there is still a majority of the people here who want a CO2 by 2020, and that the government agrees with me that a minority government must always navigate after a majority of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175659	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175702	Of course we take note of the views of the Folketing. The alternative could be frightening, at least for a minister. Then I would say that, for us, it is a matter of conducting a realistic and sensible climate and energy policy in which objectives and means are coherent in a sensible way. That is also the reason for the policy we have been pursuing since we were given government responsibility, and it is absolutely crucial for us that we continue the green transition, but that we do so in a way that we are also able to pay the bill for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175737	Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175739	After all, we all agree that we must achieve the objectives in a realistic and reasonable way. But the Government's own Climate Council says precisely that we can, precisely, say that the target of 40%. is the way to the long-term goal, says precisely that there are major socio-economic gains by going for the target of 40%. So I hope that after the question debate today we can bury this argument about the target of 40%. and say: Yes, of course that's what we're working for. And then we can start to focus even further on the medium-term milestones in 2025 and 2030, which the Minister is also proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175821	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175822	The Climate Council had also made some calculations on how much it would cost to have a national target of 40%. in 2020. Now we can be pleased that for many reasons we are achieving this, but they had nevertheless calculated that it would cost 900 million. kr. a year, so there's some kind of bill. I would also like to say today, also in the light of the comments of the Conservative People's Party, that everything we can reasonably achieve, including in relation to the implementation of additional CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175900	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217175906	I also find it interesting that this statement has been made, which shows that it looks as if we are reaching the target of 40%. reduction in 2020. I wish there was a greater focus on energy savings. It is as if it is forgotten a little in the big debate, because it is all about what kind of an energy system we are building, but not so much about where it really is that we can use the energy smarter and develop the technology. In addition, there is also reason for us to discuss biomass and CO2 but this is the increased biomass that is calculated to be CO2 So we have to both look at CO2 We have no charges now and it is not sustainable in the long run. I think the Minister for Finance will find out at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180012	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180013	In the government, we are quite concerned to ensure that the biomass used in the power plants is as environmentally sustainable as possible. We are therefore also pleased that both Danish District Heating, Danish Energy, DONG and other power plants, Vattenfall etc., have concluded agreements to ensure that the biomass imported is certified and as sustainable as possible. Moreover, I find it difficult to see what the alternative is to biomass at the central cogeneration plants. In fact, I think it is positive to replace coal with biomass. This is among other things. to ensure the supply, which is why I find it very difficult to see what the alternative is to it. Then I agree with your comments on energy savings and energy efficiency. More attention needs to be paid to this, and not just more attention needs to be paid to it in Denmark, but more attention needs to be paid to it internationally. The European Union has ambitious objectives here, and it is actually the case that we can achieve half of what we need to achieve in the world in terms of reducing CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180116	Thank you. And, you don't use direct indictment. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180120	I don't think we're gonna be able to unfold this whole thing in two times 30 seconds, so we're gonna have to get back to the biomass thing at another time. I think that on top of the climate summit there is some task that we may have to discuss in the energy conciliation circle: how it is that we get as many civil society as possible involved in the further efforts to reduce our energy consumption, convert our society into a sustainable society and convert to less CO2 I do not think we should just settle for the parties. I think that we can win by spreading the debate to more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180157	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, for the remark. I therefore agree that it is very important that there should be a commitment so that it is not just politicians who go in and out of the premises down in Paris, big politicians and small politicians and civil servants etc. The crucial thing, in relation to the fact that something is also happening in reducing climate pollution, is that there is a popular commitment, and I would like to discuss this with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180222	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180226	Thank you. An alternative to biomass, as we have often talked about, is heat pumps, both the large ones which can be included in cogeneration, but also the individual ones. It struck me a bit that they were up on several occasions yesterday in the context of the debate on finance legislation without, like, landing on anything positive. Does the Minister not see it as a great opportunity right now to boost the transition to an electric renewable energy system to help heat pumps much more along the way and possibly to finance it through some charges on solid biomass?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180309-2	We would very much like to promote heat pumps, and I would also like to say that this is something we are focusing on. To the extent possible within the Ministry's budget, I am also prepared to negotiate with the parties that are part of the energy agreement and the alternative is not, for many good reasons, participating to see whether it is possible to promote heat pumps in some way. For heat pumps is part of the solution, also in relation to ensuring the large production we have of electricity from renewable energy. There it is absolutely essential that heat pumps at some stage are implemented. There are many possibilities in this context, and I am actually prepared to look at that, also in cooperation with the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180356	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180357	Well, that sounds good, and then I could be tempted to ask: is that what the Climate Commission is supposed to do? Because there are many of us who are eagerly waiting to know what that commission is to do, compared to what the Climate Council is doing. After all, we have seen results from the Climate Council, which seems very sensible. They even use common arithmetic models and get good results. What's the Climate Commission supposed to do? For example, is it... to find out how we integrate heat pumps into district heating and heat supply at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180430	I'm counting on it, sir. Christian Poll thinks is the Energy Commission, right? Yes). Okay, thanks. I would say that it could be one of the tasks. One of the Commission's main tasks is to come up with good ideas on how to organise the energy policy from 2020 to 2030, also on the basis of the national climate targets up to 2030, which we need to achieve in order to achieve the EU objectives to which we commit ourselves and how we do it intelligently and sensibly. And that is where I believe that heat pumps can definitely be included as a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180501	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180505	I would like to thank the Minister for a very encouraging summary because I agree with the Minister that there is no doubt that the Paris Agreement creates opportunities for Danish companies. However, I also note that the Minister says in his speech that we must wait for the European Union before discussing our 2030 target and that it will have to be sometime in 2017. There I have to ask about the process, because there is no doubt that we need to renegotiate the energy agreement. And if we are to deliver both a goal in 2025 that Paris is setting for, plus by 2030, is 2017 time enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180548	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180549	That's what I'm judging right now. I expect that in the coming year we will have quite tough negotiations in the EU context on the redistribution of the task that we are facing in 2030 with a total CO2 that will not be an easy task, I can say, and Denmark will take a fairly significant share, as we have a high GDP. This is one of the ways to calculate how much each country has to take on. For the government, it is absolutely crucial that we know the 2030 target before embarking on energy negotiations. However, I have the expectation that we will get started with energy negotiations during 2017, after we have learned about the final distribution in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180637	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180639	I understand the need to know what the European Union is joining compared to 2030. I have no doubt that we in Denmark will have to turn up our targets, in other words 40%. Despite the fact that the EU is reaching 40%. By 2030, only 40%. Not the objective of Denmark, since we have a high gross domestic product, as the Minister has just said. That is why we will also have to deliver more by 2030. I look forward to negotiations on this. The second point I would like to ask the Minister is about the projection. It is just because there have been many rumors and myths about what the projection actually contains. And I would just like the Minister to confirm two things: that the projection does not contain the agricultural package that is currently being negotiated or the proposal that the government has put forward, nor does the projection contain the adopted financial law, but the draft Finance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180738	I would say this in that it contains everything that has been agreed in the Folketing and whether it contains the adopted Finance Act or the draft Finance Act, I will choose to answer it by means of a written question, if the questioner so wishes. And then I will reply to an earlier question raised by the questioner, namely the question of how the base projection has been implemented, i.e. whether it is on the same basis as in the past. And there I can just say that we have carried out the base projection on the same basis as the previous government did last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180809	Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180813	Thank you. I noted that the Minister mentioned that the government will set national reduction targets for CO2 It is not exactly the Danish People's Party's cup of tea, but we recognise that that is what the government wants. If we are then to achieve the reduction targets that the Minister intends to set, I hope that we will invest in energy savings instead of embarking on several expensive projects to build green energy projects which need to be supported, for example. with PRS funds charged over the electricity bill, but instead focus, as I said, on energy savings. Surely we can agree that saving unnecessary energy consumption is a much better energy policy than subsidising new energy. It is good economy for the individual family, for the individual company, but also for society as a whole. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180917	I very much agree with Mr. Mikkel Dencker knows that there are really great potentials in energy saving, energy efficiency, in general a sensible use of energy. It is also my expectation that it will be a central area and focus point and element when we have to organise energy policy towards 2030. But I also think we have to recognise that one element cannot do it alone. It will be a combination of several elements to ensure that we reach the target by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180947	Here you go, sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217180949	Good. I am pleased to hear that this is the focus the government will put on achieving the reduction targets that will be set. Another thing I would like to hear from the Minister is whether the Minister had the same experience as I did. Now I know that we were both together with many other members of the Energy Committee in Paris at this COP21 meeting last week. There it was also my experience that there was actually a broad recognition of Denmark, and not many from abroad spoke negatively about Denmark. Now I know that I have not been chosen to come abroad for praise, but does the Minister agree with me that the picture abroad is that Denmark is doing well, and not as negative as the Left tried to draw it in Danish media?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181036	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181038	I completely share Mr. Mikkel Dencker's statement. Everywhere I came to see that there was great recognition of the efforts that Denmark is making, and I was also very pleased to be able to represent a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, which is behind Denmark being so strong in terms of green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181056	Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181101	I would also like to sign for the broad majority we have at long last, by far most of it, even if that is not all we agree on. Today, after all, we have discussed some of the climate policy objectives on which we do not entirely agree, but it is gratifying that the climate seems to be changing and that we may be hitting 40%. Anyway. What I would like to ask is some of the things that have been raised. There was talk of biomass before, and I would like to say that I have an environmental concern if there is too much biomass, and perhaps I have the most concern because right now we have a tax structure that is too much, like encouraging it. So I am a little afraid of that and I want to know if the Minister can share that concern. The minister just said in reply to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that he saw no alternative to biomass, but I think I see many alternatives to biomass, for example. in district heating, in order to avoid that we get too much biomass into the system. Then perhaps I would also like to hear, as we know and the Minister has said a few times today, that we will have a reduction target at the high end • I think the Minister has called it from the European Union next year what the Minister is thinking. Then we should not start doing something, for example. on agriculture and transport, or should we just wait and believe that waiting will make it cheaper?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181214	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181215	We have to do something all the time, and so do we, but it is of course also crucial that we know the task before we throw ourselves a hundred percent into it. That is why we have decided that we must now engage in tough negotiations in the European Union, and that will be quite serious negotiations where we ensure that Denmark gets out of it as well as possible. That's the focus I'm gonna choose to have. And then I would like to say that the task will then be such that I expect us to convene the parties of the Danish Parliament and hopefully agree on how we will deal with the task and challenge towards 2030. In relation to biomass, as I said earlier in reply to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that the government is quite concerned that the biomass we use in Denmark is certified. We are also working on the • and it could be good that we could have some EU targets in this area, so that they are not just national targets. In this context, it is actually sensible to have common rules in the European Union as to what biomass we are applying to European cogeneration plants.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181317	Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181320	I agree with the latter, but I could also be a little concerned about Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen's Treasury, if there is too much use of biomass, because we do not have any tax revenue on it. So there too, I think the government might be a little dangerous. In relation to agriculture, the Minister says that it is right that we should do something all the time and that we should do something all the time. What has the government done to reduce agricultural emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181348	The government is currently in negotiations with a number of parliamentary parties on how to ensure that we also have an agriculture in Denmark in the future. I also note that the agricultural sector, the food sector in Denmark, has reduced CO2 emissions since 1990. So it is vital that we do what we can to ensure technological solutions, but at the same time also ensure that there is a future for the agriculture and food sector in Denmark. It is absolutely crucial for our economic situation, our opportunities to ensure sound social welfare, etc. So it is all about ensuring that there is room for growth, but at the same time also that solutions are implemented, not least through technological solutions that reduce the environmental impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181436	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181441	Thank you. I would also like to sign for a fine speech by the Minister. Fortunately, there is more that unites us than separates us, although we may have certain differences. I don't think it's a secret. I would just like the Minister to confirm that the government will undertake a work which will result in us getting a total Danish CO2 by mid-2017 at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181508	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181509	Thank you to Mrs Abildgaard for her question. I can confirm what I have also confirmed on an earlier occasion today here from Parliament's platform that the government is investing in and working for it, and that we are doing everything we can to achieve a reduction target for 2030 by 2017, after we hopefully at that point in time no one can guarantee that the negotiations in the EU have been completed on how we distribute that task between countries in terms of reducing emissions by 40%. in 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181539	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181540	Thank you, Minister. I would just like to hear whether we do not agree that, in the context of a new forward-looking energy agreement, we should, of course, endeavour to achieve the objectives we set ourselves for 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181558	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181559	I very much agree with the rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, that this would be obvious. But I think it is also the case that, in achieving these objectives, it is not enough that we alone sit in the energy conciliation circle and take decisions; there are also other areas we need to look at, not least in relation to the non-quota areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181620	Then it's mr. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181623	Thank you. At a recent meeting, I met the Minister and asked whether the focus on biogas, where manure is one of the main ingredients to ensure biogas, had a climate objective. I had doubts about this because agriculture is a major part of the climate problem, and so I asked whether it was sensible to invest so much in some biogas plants where manure is a prerequisite. There the Minister replied that it was clearly also an important reason for supporting biogas, namely that it wanted to support Danish agriculture in the way we operate it today. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181712	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181713	I am clearly of the opinion that biogas has developed into a greater success in recent years than it has been in the past, and I also very much welcome the fact that much of the biogas that is now coming down on the overall natural gas network is green biogas, which displaces fossil energy. So there are actually many good reasons to continue to bet on biogas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181739	Sir. Jesper Kiel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181740	Can the Minister confirm that at the meeting of a lot of Funen municipal politicians on an energy plan for Funen, the Minister expressed that a very important reason why this biogas adventure was even supported was that it would support Danish agriculture and ensure the growth of Danish agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181800	I'll give you that. This is also one of the reasons why we want to promote biogas, because biogas contributes to solving environmental challenges in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181810	Thank you. Then it doesn't look like there's any more questioners. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Friday 18 December 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181837	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217181859	Thank you, President. The climate challenge is one of the most important global challenges of our time, and that is precisely why it is important that we think and do not allow climate policy to be dictated by short-term sub-targets. This is not crucial for the climate, nor is it cost-effective to have a Danish national climate target by 2020. What is important is that the green transition is going in the right direction and that we act together with like-minded countries. There is much evidence that the initiatives we have already launched support the conversion in Denmark to a large extent. The new base projection also establishes this with seven-inch seams. According to the new base projection, greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by 40%. in 2020 compared to 1990 emissions. The Conservative People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution in which the Danish Parliament instructs the government to work to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2020. in relation to 1990 levels. I would like to thank the Conservative People's Party for their constructive approach to finding common solutions to the resolution. I would particularly like to commend the party's rapporteur for a very solution-oriented dialogue. I am prepared for a broad consensus in Danish climate policy. I think that we should now look at the future challenges of achieving the European Union's objectives by 2030. We need to find common solutions for financing climate action. The new base projection will today meet the proposed reduction target by 2020, but depending on the development of a number of assumptions that cannot be managed through the Danish climate and energy policy, it may be that next year's base projection shows a different level for 2020. There is therefore a risk that we will take swift and not fully thought-out action if we are already to set a short-term reduction target of 40%. In 2020, efforts are not decisive in achieving the long-term objectives of climate and energy. This is not consistent with the government's intention to pursue a green but realistic climate policy. I think, as I said, that we should instead start preparing a debate on two important issues. The first is the achievement of the EU's reduction targets by 2030. The government is working to ensure a high level of ambition in the climate area of the European Union, while at the same time assuming our share of responsibility. Therefore, Denmark makes a very significant contribution to climate action within the EU's common quota trading system covering the energy sector and industry. We also have one of the highest 2020 reduction targets in the EU in the so-called non-quota sectors, which, in popular terms, include the three Bs: farmers, cars and buildings. The expectation is that the same will apply to our reduction targets by 2030. It is no secret that it will be a challenge to achieve our expected high 2030 targets for the non-quota sectors. This could potentially be a challenge for our agriculture and for the transport sector in particular. The second important issue is what will happen in the energy sector after 2020. We must ensure that, when the current energy agreement expires in 2020, there will continue to be sensible developments in the field of energy. These are broad, concrete agreements designed to ensure stability and concrete impetus in the field of energy. The Government will therefore set up a Commission which will make recommendations for the organisation of the overall energy policy after 2020 and will identify cost-effective solutions for managing international commitments after 2020. I hope this and the government can be the start of a constructive dialogue with the Danish Parliament's parties on how to ensure a cost-effective green transition through measures that can benefit the climate and that do not unduly affect growth, employment and the competitiveness of Danish industry. It is my wish and that of the government that, with this debate, we should agree on the proportions of the climate debate. It makes the most sense that we have long-term solutions and international commitments in our sights. It is crucial that the Danes can pay the total bill for the green conversion. We need to find the right balance where the transition continues, but at the same time taking into account growth, business and employment. I hope that today's debate will form the basis for a joint resolution on the Conservative People's Party's motion for a resolution, and I look forward to continuing the constructive dialogue with the Conservative People's Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182424	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. It's first Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182427	Thank you very much. I do not quite understand what the Minister means by that it is very short-sighted to look forward to 2020. After all, we still have a few years to make sure that we reach the 40-percent target. I do not quite understand what the Minister means by saying that it should be ill-thought out. We have, of course, seen a Climate Council in Denmark which, not long ago, produced a report showing how it could be achieved, also with quite significant socio-economic gains. I would just like to know whether the Minister does not agree that, on the basis of this motion for a resolution, which requires the government to work for a 40-percent target by 2020 and for which there is a majority, we still need to have a look to ensure and to put into practice how we reach the 40 per cent. in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182521	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182522	The government is therefore prepared to look at how we reach 40% and to give concrete expression to how solutions can be found in order to reach 40%. However, it is quite crucial for us and, fortunately, here we share the view of our good friends in the Conservative People's Party that it should be implemented, it must not cost employment, and it must not cost competitiveness. And any proposals that need to be dealt with in this context must be made in the context of next year's financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182551	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182553	Well, then, I am pleased to note that there seems to be very, very broad support for a 40-percent target by 2020 and that, of course, it needs to be achieved in a way that will also give us jobs in the green transition, which, if we look at it historically, must be said to be quite, quite fulfilled. And, of course, we also have to finance those things and the initiatives to ensure that we reach the goal. I can only welcome the fact that there is an agreement between the government and the Conservative People's Party that we should go down this road; that we should flesh out how we get there; and that the efforts should, of course, be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182630	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182630-2	The government is not prepared for any national target of 40% CO2 We say that those who want to achieve a 40-percent target by 2020 must make the proposals in connection with the conduct of financial law negotiations. And then I would add that the government's objectives in this area are running away with the European Union's objectives, and we can, fortunately, note that in 2020, with the latest baseline projection, we are up twice what the European Union will achieve by 2020 as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182659	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182702	This debate follows on from the debate we have just had on achieving a target of 40% CO2 That is, of course, many years ahead, so why should it be aimed at? The concrete proposal here is, of course, to go for 40% reduction by 2020. I could understand it better if the Minister started talking about some higher percentage in 2030 that it was brought into the debate. I think that would be relevant. I do not think we should be alarmed by the fact that things can be complicated and difficult. I think that some frameworks can easily be changed without costing anything, so that other players are given better opportunities to work with CO2 So I do not buy that premise because it automatically costs jobs and a lot of state economy because you start adjusting the buttons. Does the Minister not agree with that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182807	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182808	That's not what I'm saying. I say that if you can find CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182834	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182836	Now I know that the Climate Council is coming up with another report. I think it was at the beginning of the spring that we had a consultation on all these analyses which, according to the energy conciliation, are to be carried out, and the Minister said in a consultation for approx. One month ago there would be three reports within 3 months, and there are so about. Two months to go. When they come, we will have an even better basis for adjusting the policy and for new measures. So I think it's way too defensive to start talking about 2030. I think we should stick to the proposal that has been put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182910	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182911	When we talk 2030, it is because the next objective that Denmark has to set itself here is, of course, a follow-up to the agreement that will hopefully be made in the coming year in the European Union, where we are distributing the task among the countries. After that, a reduction target must be set towards 2030, which is why it is natural for the government to take it in this context. Then I can confirm that the analyses that are being asked about taxes and duties, I expect that in the coming months we will be able to present most of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182938	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217182940	Thank you. The minister says that you are opposed to a national objective, but that you want to help make a plan for how we can get up against the 40%. What is the difference between the two things in the Minister's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183001	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183002	We're among other things. on the basis of the recommendations of the Climate Council prepared to examine and look at the proposals that exist and also discuss them with the parties of the Folketing, but at the same time we say that we do not want a national objective. But we are prepared to look at it, and should it turn out that there are some things that we can do that are absolutely free of charge, we are also prepared to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183021	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183023	I understand that completely free of charge doesn't mean a penny on government finances. But why should money be placed in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183035	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183036	That is if it is the case that the proposals cost money. The Climate Council pointed earlier on when we expected to reach 37 percent. kr. to achieve a 40-percent target per year. I don't think that's what I'm gonna find from one moment to the next so much money on a finance bill, and I think that's what other people are gonna have a hard time with. But if there is a political desire to do so, it is something that needs to be said in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183101	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183106	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that in Denmark we have a Climate Council whose task is to advise the government and that they have made a recommendation to maintain the 40-percent target by 2020. The steps to be taken to achieve this must therefore be fleshed out, but the Left has not committed itself to throwing its lot on the weight to get there. It must be up to the financial law parties to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183136	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183137	We are, of course, looking at all the proposals that are coming, including those from the Climate Council. We are also looking at and making calculations about some of the proposals that lie there. It is clear that it is a fairly comprehensive work presented by the Climate Council, and it is natural that we take all the elements from there and look at what proposals are there to reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183203	Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183206	I note that the Minister very much emphasises the 2030 target. The Paris Agreement states that the 2030 target must also include the non-quota sector. Therefore, it is quite crucial and obvious to hear, as Denmark must also contribute to the 2030 target for the non-quota sector, whether the government has calculated whether the proposal for the agricultural package that has been put forward contributes positively or negatively to our climate impact, and what that calculation shows.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183247	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183248	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. As the agricultural package has not yet been negotiated, negotiations on it are still under way, it is too early to say what a possible climate impact will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183304	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183305	Then I would have a legitimate expectation that, once the agricultural package has been negotiated, it will also contain what it has to do with our climate and, if it has negative consequences, that the government will also come up with a proposal on how to compensate for it. But I did not really ask about the final agricultural package; I asked the Minister about the draft agricultural package that has been put forward. I note that the economic consequences of this have been calculated. I would therefore like to ask whether the effects of climate change in the government have also been calculated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183343	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183345	I do not consider it appropriate to make calculations on the basis of a possible agricultural package that has not yet been implemented or presented. After all, when the package is ready, everyone is free to ask what the climate consequences might be of such a package.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183402	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183405	Thank you. I just want to hear the Minister if it doesn't impress the Minister when the energy industry goes out and says that they want goals and they want clear signals, because then they can continue to invest and feel confident that there is still a market in Denmark. After all, this is an area of growth rates of 15%, as we have also heard in a previous debate today, and it is also further international when we are relaxing our objectives or abandoning targets, because they then also think that all right, that is not quite what we want in Denmark anyway. Green technology, in particular in the field of energy, has enormous potential. Doesn't that impress the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183457	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183459	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. Of course it makes an impression. Fortunately, it is also the case that we actually have a very clear framework for our climate and energy policy in Denmark. Back in 2012, we adopted a rather comprehensive energy agreement, which by 2020 means total investment in Denmark in this area of no less than 100 billion. kr. So I have to say that companies and actors in this area are fully aware of what the framework conditions are for 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183530	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183532	But these are some of the conditions that have then been weakened or that have been called into question, which means that we see the industry and individual companies reporting out in the daily press: what can we count on here? Can we continue to invest in Denmark? Apparently, they've experienced another signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183553	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183555	That's a completely wrong signal. It's actually the case that there's a very firm framework around this. We still need to implement parts of the energy agreement from 2012 around some energy savings, around coastal wind turbines and another offshore wind farm. There are actually a lot of things in the pipeline. And there I see a Danish industry in the field of energy, which supports the line taken and is satisfied with the framework conditions that apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183619	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteurs. It's first, sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217183634	Thank you. The debate on the resolution follows directly on from the more general debate we have just had, but it is also a very specific discussion about whether we want to have an objective for our work. There should be no doubt that in the social democracy we still believe that we should have a goal. We still believe that CO2 should be reduced by 2020 and that, as the Minister said in his speech, it is not something new that he and the Conservatives focus on providing jobs. That is what the Climate Act, which the previous government, including the Conservatives, helped to do even before the change of government. So there is nothing controversial about it. But it is also important to have goals because you have to have something to aim for. I am pleased to note that the Minister is now saying that the government is willing to make a plan for how it is expected to hit the 40%. I may have semantically little difficulty understanding the difference between making a 40% reduction plan. and to have a goal of reducing 40%. As far as I know, no one has yet been at risk of being fined if they had not achieved the goal. Having a goal means precisely making a plan for how to achieve it. One can easily imagine a situation in which we are doing some things in one area that are moving in the wrong direction for the climate, because we also have other considerations. However, the objective and the objective are precisely the expression that then you might find some other handles, so you compensate a little so that we still stay away from the 2050 target, which we agree should be a low-carbon society. The Minister and all of us are looking into a situation where we know that in the non-quota sectors, as the Minister has said, which are transport, buildings and agriculture, we are faced with EU targets, which will be at the high end, as the government puts it. I very much agree with that. I also believe that with a relatively large agricultural sector in this country, with a high GDP and all sorts of other things, it will be unlikely that we will not get a budget even if the minister is good at negotiating a target at the high end. That is why the Socialists' call is simply that we should get this discussion under way. That is why I hope that in my reply to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr on the agricultural package and CO2, if the Minister says that it is not intended to count on that, then I hope that some of my colleagues who are sitting and negotiating will ask about it, because it is not insignificant what it means, both CO2 and CO2, I also believe that there are calculations of what the draft cost in CO2 so we should not agree that what we have is an ambition to hit the 40%? And what we're discussing is how we do it best. What are the most suitable tools to get there? We must discuss this instead of arguing about whether or not we want an objective, because we all obviously want to discuss how we can achieve it. So let's get to grips with those different tools, and let's also get to grips with some of the things that are going to be difficult. Because, as I said in my earlier speech on the second question, I do not believe that it will be cheaper and easier for agriculture if they have less time to adapt. It can therefore be said that when we know we have to do something, the sooner we get started, the longer we can, so to speak, allow people to phase in and the easier we can help them financially. That is why we are calling for it to be started. And by the way, we will maintain that it is appropriate to have a target for 2020, but we would also very much like to set one for 2030, because it is easier for industry, industry and all of us, if we also have the long light on and look at the stepping stones that must be towards the ultimate goal by 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184055	Thank you. Sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184058	Well, I understand, sir. Jens Joel's enthusiasm when he gives the Social Democrat rapporteur's speech, because what this resolution is all about is smashing the government out, and it's always fun to do that when you're in opposition. I've tried it myself for a while. I understand that the Social Democrats think that's funny. I am just wondering why the Conservatives are taking part as a willing tool in the Left's attempt to run around with the government, but it is fun to do that as an opposition; I understand that. But sir... Jens Joel confirms to me what the resolution is all about, namely that Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 must be reduced by 40%.? That goal has been achieved, so this is a blow to the air.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184147	Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184147-2	It will probably be difficult to confirm that we have reached 40%, all the time that we are in 2015 and therefore cannot have reached the target by 2020, and the closest we can get to it is with a forecast that we might be on our way to it. That is why I am simply saying that I welcome this and that it is very good. However, I can also see and have heard the Minister say several times today that next year we will have objectives to see in the non-quota sector, which is at the high end, and that is why we might as well start discussing which tools are the smartest to take out of the toolbox if we are to deliver on those targets. I will let the Conservatives themselves answer why they are involved in this, but I do not really see it as something to do with the government or the opposition. I actually see that, before the elections, we had a majority in favour of achieving this objective and that, after the elections, we still have that majority. Well, that's basically just what's doing it. I would also like to hear the Minister say today that, of course, he also accepts this as part of the reality in which the government lives, and that is why he would like to contribute, if I may say so, to a plan for how we can then reach 40%. in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184255	Sir. Mikkel Dencker, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184257	It is clear that the Minister accepts the terms on which he is here, because if he did not, he would be voted down. That's the way it is. We know that. But what I asked Mr. Jens Joel about, was: Isn't it true that the Danish Energy Agency issued a forecast yesterday saying that Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 have been reduced by 40% and that this is what you want to adopt with this? Does this not mean that the government is required to work to ensure that there are seat belts in cars? So this is a blow to the air. - Sir... Jens Joel confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184331	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184332	No, I'm not sure you can look at it that way. So, with regard to seat belts in cars, I would say that if we were to abolish that law so that we no longer had to put them in the cars, it might be that some people stopped doing so, and then we would see that there are some accidents on the roads, and that would not be appropriate. That's why we still have that law. The reason why we say it is important to stick to a 40-percent target is that if you do something, which may be legitimate enough, in an area that may be drawing a little in the wrong direction, or if there are some things out there that really change, so that the forecast looks different next year, then we have to say, if we are to take each other seriously, what can we do to get back on track? That is why it is very relevant to say: that we have achieved our goal because we have a forecast in 2015, as the Minister himself says is very uncertain, because an objective by 2020 would be to lay down in the hammock, and I do not think there is any reason for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184423	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184440	There is a certain danger that I will repeat what I said up here from the platform three hours ago, because we have actually just had a question debate on the same subject that we are dealing with here. However, what this resolution is about is requiring the government to work to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2020. in relation to 1990 levels. Yesterday, the Danish Energy Agency came up with a prognosis that said that this objective has been achieved, so this resolution is actually a blow to the air, because it has already achieved the objective that the proposers are going to impose on the government to work for. So I had actually hoped that the Conservative People's Party, which tabled the motion for a resolution, would withdraw it, because it is quite a blow in the air to put it forward. But what I can read between the lines is that there is a left who is dissatisfied with the government's policy, i.e. that the government has not pursued the previous government's climate objectives, and it is really enough that some parties are not satisfied with it. Then there is the Conservative People's Party, which, apparently incited by the possibility of media publicity, will have voted through the fact that we are imposing a certain policy on the government, and that is done with its friends on the left. It may then be surprising that it may be conservative policy to introduce these climate objectives, which are equally expensive for Danish society, which provide more expensive energy and less competitiveness for companies. But it is then a choice made by the Conservative People's Party. In the Danish People's Party we are working to ensure that Denmark's energy policy provides Danes with a good, stable and cheap energy supply, and therefore we cannot be involved in creating climate targets. We were actually satisfied with the policy put forward by the government earlier this year, namely that the government had no climate targets for CO2 and that is why we cannot agree that some new climate targets are being created, and we cannot even agree with the resolution here, because it is a blow in the air which is nothing more than requiring the government to work for something that has already been achieved. So in these words, I must say that the Danish People's Party does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184721	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184726	Thank you. I think that we should respect the majority that may appear in each case. It is not long since we had to consider a proposal to allow the cultivation of three GM maize varieties in Denmark, where it ended up with the left being joined by the Danish People's Party. Then there was a majority in favour of preventing the GMO maize from being grown in Denmark, and I think that was actually quite fair. So, there are some people who have elected the Danish People's Party into the Folketing, and then you use their votes. Sometimes it is with the left, and I do not think there is anything wrong with that, just as I do not think there is anything wrong with the Conservatives here joining the left, and then there can be a majority to hold on to some CO2 and by the alternative going by, there can be a majority in favour of it. I would like to know whether it would not be more reasonable for the Danish People's Party to vote in favour of this proposal, since the rapporteur says that we have come to the 40 per cent target. CO2 I guess it's not that dangerous, even if the Conservatives are on board.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184829	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184830	As I have said a few times today, the Danish People's Party is not in favour of these climate objectives, so we cannot support the adoption of a climate target, even if it is a climate target that has already been achieved. But of course I recognise that it is Enhedslisten's policy to have a climate target and work for it, and so you do. Then you get a majority out of the government, and it is even more festive when you are in opposition. So it's good for the Enhedslisten. However, the Danish People's Party does not want to participate in this because we do not agree with the purpose of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184910	I would like to point out that it is not so dangerous, and I would also like to point out that this whole thing about having some goals is quite natural. I think it is a little strange that so much attention is being paid to objectives on such a day as today when a financial law has been adopted for the coming year. There are, of course, lots of objectives in such a budget law, and there are also some intentions that there is some economy that should apply for four years. So setting goals is something quite natural. Well, there was no reason to get up in the morning if you didn't have some goals for what you had to work for. So I can't even understand this rejection of objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217184946	It is true that we all have goals, and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's and my goals are certainly quite different in many contexts. But just because there is a majority in the Folketing for some objectives that are not mine, I do not agree. So even if Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's party has a majority here in the Danish Parliament, which we are not part of, for this goal, then Dansk Folkeparti is not part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185010	Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185014	Thank you. I would like to follow up on this with whether the Conservatives commit a mortal sin by creating a majority together with the centre-left, and I just want to ask whether it is a new strategy on the part of the Danish People's Party, and whether the Danish People's Party could never imagine voting together with centre-lefts in the future, for example. About GMOs. We have seen it before in connection with bisphenol A-sucking bottles. Is it generally the case that one cannot imagine areas where one agreed with the centre-left and that one cannot vote with them because one cannot because of loyalty to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185053	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185055	After all, every party must organise its tactics as it pleases. I believe that the right path would have been to negotiate with the government in remembrance. Now the Conservative People's Party has chosen to table this resolution because it knew that there was a majority with the whole left, and then it could be forced through in that way. You can choose to do that. I would have preferred that the Conservative People's Party had negotiated things with the government and the Danish People's Party and for example. Liberal Alliance. After all, the bourgeois parties support the government that is, and it would have been natural to negotiate with the government rather than to vote it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185142	It's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185145	Now I think we are at the heart of the debate. Because I think it is a very interesting new political signal from the Danish People's Party, if the Danish People's Party does not at any time imagine being able to bring a government into the minority, because it is a bad tactic, and because it is better to negotiate with the government. This means that the Danish People's Party has deposited its future negotiating opportunities with the government. So I would like to ask: why does the Danish People's Party not just sit in government, because that is what is usually done in a government? I will take note of this, and I will say that now I understand much better why the Danish People's Party ran from their daily allowance vows. Apparently, it's the new tactic. However, I would like to thank the rapporteur for making it clear that the Danish People's Party does not consider it possible to create a majority in the future, together with the centre-left. It was new to me, but thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185243	There is nothing new about the fact that the Danish People's Party believes that at least in the first place one should try to negotiate political results when dealing with a government that is supported at least in the daily work. There I think it would have been better to have tried to achieve the results by negotiation rather than in this somewhat barren way just trying to vote through things. It would have been preferable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185309	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185311	I have to tell you exactly the way it is. I thought that was a completely absurd speech from Mr. Mikkel Dencker's side. The Conservative People's Party believes exactly the same as we did before the elections. I also think there are many voters who wish that the Danish People's Party thought the same after the elections as you did before the elections. You do that in this one area, and I acknowledge that. The hope of negotiating with the Danish People's Party in the green area is not so great for me when I hear the Danish People's Party's rapporteur say in response to the climate summit: now Denmark does not have to do anything anymore. We finally got the others into the game. Then the rapporteur calls for us to negotiate with the government. I can tell the rapporteur that we have done so. The Minister for Climate Affairs has not of his own free will come up with the idea that we should have a national 2030 target. This is something we negotiated with the government. So would not the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party recognise that sometimes the Danish People's Party also creates a majority in an alternative way, most recently in relation to GMOs?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185413	I would just like to say that a few direct charges were used in the brief remark made to the rapporteur. We should very much like to avoid this under the Rules of Procedure. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185422	Well, sometimes it may be necessary to use, one can say, power by voting through the Folketing with some things, but in this context, with this resolution, I know the timeline in it. I know that the negotiations that the Conservative People's Party has had with the government have taken place after this resolution was tabled, so it has been with the knife for the throat. So I think the Conservative People's Party should perhaps have used what is good practice when you are a support party for a government, namely to take things at the negotiating table first and see if it does not bear fruit. It had looked prettier. However, if Mrs Mette Abildgaard speaks again, she may be able to answer why it is that the resolution has not been withdrawn now that we are actually in line with the things that are stated in the proposal to impose on the government. Then it is a blow in the air to have this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185518	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185519	It has not been withdrawn because our recommendation will be to adopt a report which, I hope, a broad majority can support. Then I just think it is crazy that the rapporteur is wise to know what negotiations have taken place when the rapporteur has no evidence to know. I can tell you that I've been to coffee with the Minister of Climate and Energy more times than I'd like. There has been nothing fruitful about this, and that is why it ended up with a motion for a resolution. But it's a little strange that you learn something you don't have a basis to know about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185551	Those are hard words that are being used: that what I do is crazy. I'll be damned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185611	Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185612	Actually, I got a little curious here too. So, I think it is really wise for the Danish People's Party to link it, that one has placed a certain prime minister in the prime minister's chair, with the beginning of being, one can say, believe it and then not run around like the Conservatives now and make a majority bypass. But is it to be understood that the Danish People's Party will not? Is it to be understood that negotiations had taken place with the government before calling the left and asking about all sorts of things here over the summer break, where you would like to make ferry tickets or anything else? The Social Democrats' response to that was precisely that you have to negotiate with your minister. So I kind of agree with Mr. Mikkel Dencker in that this is how you have to do as a responsible parliamentary basis, but is it new that the Danish People's Party will then refrain from the other, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185655	I would say that this is the way in which the Danish People's Party usually works. When we are parliamentary basis for a government, we take things at the negotiating table. That is the way to achieve results. Then you can ultimately get into a situation where you have to vote things through, but I do not think that has been necessary in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185718	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185720	Well, I don't understand. The fault of the Conservatives is that they mean the same thing before and after the elections. I thought that was a virtue. And Mr. Mikkel Dencker also thinks that Mr. Mikkel Dencker... Mikkel Dencker can judge if they've tried to negotiate first. On what basis does the rapporteur base it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185739	I am not aware that there should have been any debate before this resolution was tabled. Nor have we heard anything from the Conservatives about whether we could help these things along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185753	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185755	Thank you. I would just like to address this issue of objectives again, because I am a little surprised that the rapporteur is questioning the very purpose of setting targets. This is something you use in your personal career development; it is something you use in school classes; it is something you use with students; it is something you use in universities; it is something you use in business, in relation to where you want to go. You can set ambitious targets and you can set basic targets that just ensure that you land at a level that is common and expected, but which ensures that you can see all the time: how are things moving towards our goals? If you don't have a goal, you can't follow the direction. And an objective such as what we have here in the proposal today is precisely the purpose of asking whether we are on the right track; we can look at the next year and next year again and next year again. Does the rapporteur not recognise that this is the purpose of an objective and that it can be a very good purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185857	Yes, I fully recognise that objectives can be very good to have. When you want to work in a particular direction, it can be used as a yardstick or a milestone to see if you are going the right way. So that's an excellent consideration, sir. Christian Poll's coming with us. In this context, the Danish People's Party does not want these climate goals, and that is why we rejected it as a concept during the previous debate. This is also what we are doing in relation to the motion for a resolution here. The specific motion for a resolution here seems to us to be completely superfluous in that the objective to be pursued has been achieved. Well, that's what we got the Energy Agency's word for yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185944	Here you go, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217185946	But the Danish Energy Agency's assessment says that we can be somewhere between 35 percent. and 44 per cent, which means that we are not quite sure about achieving the goal. So I guess the idea of setting a target here is to say that we should at least achieve 40%. And that is fair, given that the whole world agreed this weekend that we should stay below a temperature increase of one and a half degrees. So is it not a reasonable basic goal to set ourselves for 2020, so we are sure not to smoke above 11⁄2 degrees or in the worst case 2 degrees by 2050?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190018	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190020	Well, what came yesterday from the Danish Energy Agency is a forecast we are in 2015 and the forecast relates to 2020 in that it is difficult to predict the future. But the Danish Energy Agency is quite good at that, you can say, predict or predict how the energy mix will be. They have some expertise in that. That's why I'm pretty sure when the Danish Energy Agency says we're gonna reach 40%. By 2020, it will also be true. If this is not to be the case, we should start to dismantle some wind farms or increase Denmark's energy consumption dramatically, and I do not think that will happen. So it is very likely that what the Danish Energy Agency said yesterday is also true.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190119	Thank you for that, President. After all, this is another debate like the one we had during the previous question debate, and now we have a debate on a resolution on exactly the same subject, namely national climate targets. Therefore, I am not going to give the same speech as I did during the first point, and my answers to the questions will also be about the same, but of course you are welcome to ask if you should have anything on your heart. I would just like to point out that this competition for who can propose the highest sub-target here in the Folketing is uninteresting, and I therefore hope that we can have a more debate on what we want to do when we are about to talk about climate action from 2020 and forward-looking. Those are my words. My rapporteur's speech on the previous item is still in effect, even though it has been an hour or so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190226	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190232	Thank you to the rapporteur. In addition to the fact that I am pleased that the rapporteur states that we have a 40-percent target by 2020 and that we must also have a target by 2030, I am glad to see that I am quite concerned about the measures that are needed. I would therefore really like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur's thinking is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190254	I do not see when I should have said that we had the milestones to which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr refers. If I should have said something about some sub-targets, it is certainly not a sub-target that we support. We have the ambition that we should have an objective that is an EU objective, that is, a long-term objective that we must pursue, and that is the first one by 2030. In relation to what I think we should give priority to, my point was precisely that we should take this debate across the conciliation circle about what initiatives we should take from 2020 and forward-looking, and perhaps we should not do that in a random question debate that does not even have it on the agenda. It is also quite hopeless for me in just a few seconds to have to make a statement on it, and I have not prepared it either. However, there is no doubt that what would be natural to want to do more is to implement something more electricity in our heat supply, our transport, etc. It is also an objective which I know is shared in the Folketing in most parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190408	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190410	There are two things I would like to follow up on. One was to say Mr. Thomas Danielsen, that you do not support a target by 2020, that is, that you only have one target for 2030? It is important for me to make it clear. The second question I would like to ask the rapporteur is that of the means, because I did not bring it up. The rapporteur himself said in his rapporteur's speech that the rapporteur would rather talk about means of action. That is why it was the obvious question to ask what measures are being taken. There should be no doubt that the Paris agreement very clearly requires the agricultural sector to deliver, that the transport sector should deliver, that households should deliver • together with the other quota-coated sector. That is why I asked about the instruments and I would still like to ask for an answer. I agree with the issue of electricity tariffs. Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190502	If it is not clear and clear, I will say it again: we in the Left are not in favour of a 2020 milestone, where we have a CO2 compared to when I talk about discussing what instruments we need to do more when we have these political debates in the conciliation circle, well then it is because somewhere it is uninteresting who can run around and come up with the highest goal. There may be so many reasons why the CO2 target looks as it does from one year to the next. After all, emissions do not always fall because some of the most environmentally friendly things happen. It can be due to lax and random things like rainy weather etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190541	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190546	Thank you. I have taken the floor for the same reason as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, in relation to the issue of the instruments. However, my question is actually that the rapporteur said that we must then sit down in the energy conciliation circle and I would very much like to talk about it in order or whatever it is called, but that it should apply from 2020 onwards. So my question is really: is the position of the Left that there should also be climate policy measures by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190615	Well, I think you can be absolutely sure that there will of course be more climate policy initiatives by 2020, and there will be ongoing climate policy initiatives, just as we saw last week when we launched a very big research effort. This will undoubtedly be the case by 2020. What my appeal is about is the next term of the agreement. We must try to make binding agreements with each other here in the Folketing. The overriding reason why we are so strong on the climate policy agenda as we are is precisely that we are making these broad, long-term and forward-looking agreements across the parties in the Folketing. There is the next agreement to go from 2020. It is, in fact, a warm-up to what I think could be more interesting to take some discussions off. What do we want? What will be the right solutions? There will be the tax and subsidy analysis on the table, and it is quite natural that we should have some of those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190719	I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that we are not using direct indictments in the Assembly. Sir. Jens Joel for his second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190727	Thank you. There is great support from this point of view for the rapporteur's plans that we should agree in a broad circle on what will happen from 2020. It is also clear that what is happening up to 2020 is important, and that is where we hear the Minister say that a plan will be drawn up. I have to understand that it is the government that, like it, has a bid for how we can get up to 40%, and then I would just like to call for some of the other political parties to be involved. That is why we are here today. We would also very much like to help the government achieve the target of 40%, whether the government would call it an objective or just a plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190806	To look at the possibilities of achieving a CO2 we have done so several times in the past. That is why the challenge today is well if we are going to talk further about it • what to do when you have reached the 40%, then if you are going to achieve a further CO2 but we have presented several calculations, and the government would of course like to continue with that, I am absolutely sure if it is requested, and that is also what I hear from the Minister. So, of course, we must continue to look at what will be the best possible technology forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190847	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190852	I also think that these instruments and the players in the industry are incredibly exciting. Now that the Left itself has no vision of how to reduce CO2 There is a huge commitment to energy policy and climate policy, we can sense that. We may not be sitting here so many, but all parties have given priority to having rapporteurs on whom there are visions that go some way further than those of the Left. So I would like to hear whether the rapporteur does not see that this issue of instruments, also with regard to something that could work by 2020, is something that we in the energy conciliation circle must have taken care of very soon and must have discussed, instead of focusing only on what could happen by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217190939	Unfortunately, I do not fall on the tail of all the visions of the opposition and their supporters. Because just as soon as there is a catalogue of remedies, which then indicates what is the recipe, what is the medicine, there is also typically a bill, and then everyone runs away and does not want to take responsibility. That's what we can see. The last time there was a catalogue of drugs, it was hurrying to distance itself from everything. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was also asked about some of the things that were discussed with regard to the media catalogue. There was a hurry to say: No, we do not support that. There is nothing in this catalogue of measures that you support. The only thing that some parties then talk about is that we have to send the bill to agriculture, which is an industry that cannot pay the bill. That's why I just have to shake my head over all the visions you have. That's fine, but show it to the financial law negotiations. Show in practice that you will prioritize it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191032	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191034	I am happy to take part in such dialogues, and I can, for example, do so. If you give the municipalities a freer framework, then you will be able to achieve something. If you give the municipalities more the right to have energy companies and you give the municipalities a freer framework to decide that the profits of that energy company can go to other things than investing in renewable energy, that it, for example. can go to renovate buildings, then we are in the process of providing the municipalities with tools that can create a positive spiral, which can set the municipalities free and which can be a dynamo for sustainable conversion. It's just one suggestion I'd like to make with 20 others.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191107	I didn't understand it as a question to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191110	The next short remark is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191114	Thank you. In 2007, when I was an employee of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, I helped to set in motion the campaign called Klima municipalities and one of the main ideas behind this project was that the municipalities could go in and commit themselves to annual reductions, i.e. set themselves a target year by year to get out of the way in the right direction. Today, as I recall, there are 76 climate municipalities, so it has been a great success. The reason it is moving is that there are targets year by year. Does the rapporteur not recognise that this is the whole idea of setting a target, that is to say that when you have a target right in front of the nose, you know what to work for, and if it starts to wobble a little, you have to set a few more things in motion so that you can achieve your goals and thus also help us to stay below a temperature increase of 11⁄2 degrees worldwide?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191210	No, I don't recognize the random sub-targets. I recognise that there are some politicians who point to what they are going to do to help the climate to move the climate in a better direction and also to refer to funding. I recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191228	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191231	But now that we're one of the richest countries in the world and we're gonna be part of this global deal that's just been signed, 40 percent is. I guess 2020 is not an unreasonable target.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191245	I do not have to deal with what you think is reasonable or unreasonable; I am just saying that I respect the fact that you refer to the instruments and not just talk about random targets, because they are not very interesting. If I ask the rapporteur what he thinks of a great reason why a CO2 has been achieved, then if I know the rapporteur correctly, the rapporteur will say that the rapporteur is not quite so enthusiastic about this. But okay, now you've achieved your goals, so is everything okay, or what? No, of course not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191324	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191340	Thank you. Today we are debating a resolution by the Conservative People's Party on the national climate target for 2020, where the Conservative People's Party will impose a 40% reduction on the government in Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions. in 2020. I think it is incredibly positive that the debate we have just had on Denmark's climate targets shows that there is a green majority in Denmark that is still fully behind Denmark's climate target of reducing CO2 by 2020. There has been a lot of talk about jobs and about the fact that a green transition, a climate change, must not cost jobs, and that, of course, allows for a broad interpretation. So far, we have seen how Denmark's leading position in the green area has given us thousands of green jobs and a burgeoning export of among others. solutions for renewable energy. So it has to be said so far that Denmark's green conversion has created a great many jobs. If we look further forward, we will have to dare to ask this question whether we imagine that it is the same jobs that must be maintained in Denmark forever. Does the workplace argument need to be used consistently to put things at a standstill? Do we imagine that society and the economy will look exactly the same in 2030, 2040 and 2050? Or can we not agree that the challenge is to look ahead and discuss how to reach a low-mission society? What does the economy look like if we are not to derive CO2 at all? What does agriculture look like? What is the transport sector like? And how do we ensure that the green transition towards the low-carbon society also creates jobs, of course? So here I think we need to face some truths. We need to recognise that in a climate change world where world leaders have promised each other that the global temperature increase must not exceed one and a half degrees, there is no future for an agricultural production that imports tons of soya from South America to produce 29 million pigs to be exported to markets in China and Japan. In the long run, that will not be the case. So when we look at jobs, which makes very good sense, it is absolutely necessary that we ask ourselves: how do we ensure strength positions within an agricultural system and a transport system that does not emit CO2 how should production and consumption look in a low-carbon society? Here it is time we dare to formulate visions for the societies of the future that do not burden the climate, that we become ambitious, that we take on the task and that we say that we must maintain an inspirational model for the rest of the world and, of course, create jobs in the societies of the future that do not destroy the climate. So, while we are fully behind the resolution in the Enhedslisten, which we support, we also think we should bear in mind that the workplace argument must not be used to put the green transition to a standstill, but rather must be turned on its head by asking how we can continue to secure positions of strength in the green transition not only in renewable energy but also in the next sectors that we need to address when we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, namely agriculture and transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191752	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217191807	Thank you. If we have had doubts as to whether these are symbolic matters we are discussing, we will not have to do so after this debate in the second round. We have a motion for a resolution in which it says: "The Danish Parliament is instructing the government to work to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2020.' This has happened. The Minister has explained it. It has even happened in this way, of course, that you take the energy conciliation and put the elements into what you know, and take the decisions that you have taken, and then you have reached the 40%. Now we have to discuss how to achieve a percentage that we have reached. How on earth are people supposed to take us seriously? Then it is said: well, there is uncertainty. But then we're supposed to find something for 22 or 23 percent.? I just don't understand. However, something that has been completely absent from the debate is the question of the economy, and now I would like to read out from the energy conciliation. I just Googled the financing annex in the energy settlement, and it says that in 2015 we will need 200 million. kr. in the PRS tax, that in 2016 we will need 300 million. kr. in the PRS tax, and then it grows slightly until 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may say so, and I am allowed to say so, the President nods we spend over 8 billion. kr. in the PRS tax. No one is interested in that, but we spend hours discussing the need to achieve a goal that we have already achieved. That is an incomprehensible way of discussing energy policy. So to the Conservatives who have tabled this motion for a resolution and who have obviously also decided not to withdraw it, that must be how I understand it, when we are now going to step around in this for a few more hours: it is said that you cannot both blow and have flour in your mouth, but that is actually what I think the Conservatives are doing here. They write that some goals have to be achieved. I assume that they wrote that when it was estimated that it was 37 per cent. It's going to be enough to reach this 40%. At the same time, it is written that competitiveness must not be affected, that growth must not be affected, that jobs must not be affected, etc. So we have two things here: one means taxes, but it must not affect the other. So we have to think about taxes that cannot go beyond growth. I hope that the Conservatives will come up and tell us how the two things can reach each other, because if you set up wind turbines, it costs even more PRS, and we have already exceeded it by several hundred percent. Then there is also talk of the transport sector and agriculture. Well, then, do we need more taxes on transportation? Is that supposed to give rise to growth? As far as I have learned, if you put a tax on mobility, you are quite sure of getting the opposite of growth. I have to admit that I do not understand that we have the debate, nor do I understand that the Conservatives can put forward something so contradictory. They say that we have to have some taxes, and we have to, because it is too expensive, because otherwise it would come from itself. We need to use some of the citizens' money to boost these renewable energy sources, otherwise we will not be able to achieve the larger goal, and that is what was probably the purpose when we were thought to be at a different level from what we saw at the time. I know I have said this many times, but we are pursuing politics as if we are living on a desert island where we have to be something very special, knowing that the energy-intensive companies will, of course, as soon as we get more taxes will fly out and take jobs with us. I have mentioned the 8 billion. kr. A few times, and it can only increase if you want more, and we have to remember that, and the amount of 8 billion. kr. You can only get bigger if you want something more. How much growth is there in this? So I am glad that earlier this day the Minister for Energy stressed so strongly that we must of course be in the EU track, but that we must not, of course, compete for any random figures in order to boast that we know something. And when we have already reached that point, it will be even more absurd. But let that talmagic be put down at the bottom of the paper pile. I hope we do not have to get it up for the third time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192344	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192350	Now the Liberal Alliance rapporteur speaks very passionately about the fact that if we are to do something for the climate, it must automatically be via taxes. That is not necessarily the way to go. Let me give you an example. This Finance Act has abolished three elements of climate, which cost 40 million. kr. It is the question of agricultural checks, it is the question of professionally sound driving, and it is the insurance scheme on the geothermal system. That's 40 million. kr. This would have led to a reduction of approx. 300,000-400,000 tonnes of CO2 Instead, the Liberal Alliance chose to reduce registration fees for some of the most expensive cars and some of the environmentally heavy cars in Denmark. We can make different priorities, that is fair enough, but the Liberal Alliance must not stand there pretending that they never spend money. The money's pouring out. As soon as you look at the Liberal Alliance, you really talk about economic irresponsibility. If you look at what the Climate Council recently presented, you can see that it gives a good socio-economic impact • socio-economic impact • of 1.1 billion. kr. Doesn't that make any impression? Are social calculations just such a hokuspocus for the Liberal Alliance, or do you sometimes take it a little seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192514	The CEPOS has carried out a report a few days ago which stated that every time you raise by approx. One degree, it costs 800 million. kr. The environmental economic wise men, who have so far published reports year after year, have repeatedly stated that every time we spend a penny on a green job, supported by public funds or PESO, it may be the same, we will lose just as much or up to 1.8 jobs in ordinary. So you have to be careful with those social analyses. You have to have the whole math. Of course, I think there's a lot of difference between the approach you have when you calculate some of these things when they can fall out differently. Therefore, I simply use my own sense of reason and say that if you put taxes on something and take people's demand out of the economy and put it into a special sector, then I think you get distortions in the economy and then we get lower growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192630	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192632	This means that the Liberal Alliance does not recognise the economists of the Climate Council, nor does it recognise the way in which economic wise men are calculated, because they both say that the socio-economic benefits of delivering on our climate objectives are good. I've just taken note of the fact that sir... Villum Christensen quotes EPOS, and the chairman of the Climate Council, Peter Birk, a recognised Danish economist, has, of course, reviewed the EPOS calculations and shows, among other things, that what the EPOS has done is that they have taken the most expensive measures in the media catalogue and that they include: has not dealt with one of the cheap instruments, offshore wind farms. I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur maintain that the CEPOS has the right basis for calculation, or can a supervisor like Peter Birk still make a little impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192724	The Climate Council has included a cost-effectiveness we wanted, whether we did one or the other. In other words, it has nothing to do with whether or not we raise the level of ambition. That is why there are many key nuances to the interpretation of the text, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr does. So I'm still saying away, as I said before, that there are many approaches to this, but generally to come and would convince me that extra taxes in the economy, which you channel down into a particular sector, should give growth, were not included in the textbook I read at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192808	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192812	Thank you. I have, of course, heard the rapporteur mention in a debate earlier today that it might be relevant, for example. with a kind of CO2 This is because what is called externalities, that is, the social disadvantages or costs of using fossil energy, is not really calculated into prices, and that is why we have, for example, the cost of using fossil energy. A quota system which unfortunately does not really work on CO2 Is the rapporteur still prepared to put a price on CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192854	What I have said before is that I understand perfectly well that one can argue in favour of putting a price on the environment. It just needs to be general and the technologies must compete equally. It should not be politicians who come and say: it costs so much and it costs so much, vice versa if it is subsidies, it does not really matter. I can understand that. But the very best thing you could do in relation to what the questioner has said would in fact be to buy a big bag of CO2 It is of course not very sexy, but it will really work on the climate because it is a zero-sum game. So if you remove some, we are sure that we are doing something for the global effort. If we only discuss our efforts within the quota area, then we all know that the zero-sum game will make you weed somewhere else if there are quotas left over. So the very best thing we can do is almost do nothing, so buy quotas and then throw them in the trash.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192957	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217192959	I myself helped sell quotas when I was employed in the Danish Nature Conservation Association, and my experience of it was that there are too many quotas, that they are too cheap, so it doesn't make much difference. If the quota system had been set up with a ceiling that was much lower, then it could have a certain effect, that is true.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193022	After all, the quota system has been set just where it corresponds to the level decided upon in the European Union. That is to say, if you reduce the number of quotas, it is the same as putting yourself on a higher CO2 level. It may well be that we are aware that the price is low, yes, but it is not necessarily the same as saying that you have not reached the target. Because in the quota sector, whatever happens is absolutely absolute and that is why the best thing you can do is buy some and then throw them out if you really want to reduce. The other thing is just moving it around.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193058	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193103	Thank you. The rapporteur, as I heard, stated the view that CO2 cannot be restricted. I certainly sensed that there was a contradiction between the two. But I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he has seen the Climate Council's report, in which, among other things, there is one. It is pointed out that one of the instruments which would have a very, very significant effect is to reduce electricity charges. These are the taxes which the Danish state is demanding today. It would cost some money because there will be less tax money in the Treasury, but it would have a very large climate effect because it would mean that we use the electricity in our district heating system. So I just want to know whether the rapporteur cannot agree with me that this was one of the methods that could be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193154	I fully agree that we need to reduce taxes, and it is true that if we reduce taxes on electricity, we can have a more appropriate tax system. We need to get energy into the heating sector when we have decided and have given investment support to so many wind turbines. It is clear that we should not give the power away if we can get it into our heat sector. This is one of the things that the high electricity tax of almost 80 billion seems to be. kr. help prevent it. So I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193225	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193228	I am just glad to hear that the rapporteurs and I can agree on that, and I shall not prolong the debate any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193233	Wait a minute, rapporteur. Mr President, there is one more brief point I should like to make. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193240	Thank you. After all, we have a great deal of respect and respect for what Mr. Villum Christensen often mentions economists, and that is why I was a little puzzled, because when reference is then made to economists, Peter Birch Sørensen and others who have been esteemed for their professional skills for a long time and who then make a report that actually shows that there are social gains in doing some of the things we are discussing today, then Mr. Villum Christensen: Yes, yes, but I do not believe that, because my common sense tells me etc. Then I would just like to see what they are wrong about, that is, why you do not listen to their financial calculations when there is supposed to be a social gain in them, because there must be a reason why you overlook them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193332	This is because, among other things, some packages are put together where the cost-effectiveness that we would get, whether we did it or not, is taken into account. It is a bit technical, but it is a question of kicking in a door and then saying that now we are raising the level of ambition, and the income that would have come in any case, we are counting on the countboard, because then we can all come together from the package we are now putting forward, show that we have a gain. It's the best way I can explain it, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193407	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193409	Without being too polemical, it is quite often that politicians say that it is a little technical when you are a little out in deep water. Let me ask quite flat out and down on the ground: do you not recognize those calculations because there are some other economists you believe more in? That's what I don't understand. Either you have to acknowledge an economic theory or you don't. And if you don't believe it, it has to be because you think they are manipulating the figures. Is that what reflects the position of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193444	After all, I think it is thought-provoking that we have had an Environmental Economic Council which has presented reports year after year and where the red parties, every time the reports were presented in the Energy Committee, were lost, because they did not like to hear that. Yeah, there was one or two. I have sometimes been sitting where there was only Per Clausen, but then he went after half the time, because it seemed to be something that was disliked, because there was criticism of energy policy. The President-in-Office of the Council of the Environment Ministers said: energy policy is double absurd. So these are violent expressions from a wise man. Then we will have a climate council that comes up with some other calculations, and it is as with everything else that it has a lot to do with the assumptions you put in. That is why I also took the liberty of quoting the CEPOS that one can always shake one's head precisely to underline the view that it is always the assumptions and assumptions that are the basis of which is typically decisive for the outcome that comes out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193606	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one more brief comment, and that is from Mr Beazley. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193611	I heard the rapporteur mention that the electricity tariffs would amount to 80 billion. kr. I just looked it up, and the figure is about 11 billion. kr., so shouldn't we try to get some objectivity into the debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193629	I'm sorry, I meant 80 cents. I got it mixed up with something with kilowatts. That's 80 cents.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193639	Will Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen put on again for a brief comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193644	It is difficult to have a conversation if we do not hear what the rapporteur is thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193654	Thanks for the correction. But it's also a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193658	There will then be no further brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193705	It has been a rather curious experience to be at COP21 negotiations in Paris, because we are known to be a country that gives it gas in the climate area. I have experienced many come to me and say: Well, you are a politician in Denmark, it is exciting; can I hear what you are doing? I could tell you a lot of good things, but I could also tell you that things are going a little backwards in Denmark at the moment. That is why I am very pleased to be here today with this proposal which shows that we now have a climate majority which will what we would call a base level in the alternative. 40% reduction by 2020 is a base level that we endorse, and I look forward to working on it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193805	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217193815	In the Radical Left we think that Danish politics might well need a little more visions and a little more goals. After all, in the last session of the Parliament, we discussed all this with a breach of promise that the then opposition brought up all the time. There was such a political culture in which, if you set an objective or presented a vision, you would immediately have to present a full plan to achieve that goal. This has meant that the government we have been given has not really dared to set itself any targets for anything, because one is afraid to get shot in the shoes, that initiatives should actually be taken to get there. We think that is a pity. The climate area is one of the areas where you have cancelled to have a target for what responsibility Denmark should take on to address climate change. The Radical Left believes that we have a responsibility to do something. I think it is very nice with the agreement that has been made in Paris, and that is why we are sorry that we cannot agree here in Denmark on some goals that should be drawn towards getting something done about these climate change. We also believe that this is something we make really good money on. In Denmark we have a high security of supply. We have low electricity prices if you compare with abroad. We have had growth and employment, built a welfare society over many decades, while at the same time doing something about our climate footprints. That is why I am very pleased that the Conservatives have chosen to make this proposal. We did not really think this was necessary, because we do have a law that says the same thing, but it is good enough to confirm that the majority that was created around that law is still in force, even after the elections. And it's really nice that in what is popularly called the blue block, there are also some who want to help set some climate goals, namely the Conservatives. That is why, of course, we support this motion for a resolution, which is also an expression of the policy we followed when we had the power of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217194026	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217194032	I have one question for the rapporteur. The rapporteur was so excited about COP21: what happened down there was so nice and then we come back to Denmark, and then we really don't want anything. It was like it was in there. Can the rapporteur not confirm that in Paris we were not in a position to set emission targets? A temperature was referred to, but the emission targets were as much as possible. Now we are discussing something with a 40% reduction that we have already achieved, and what do I know? Isn't it a little strange to highlight Paris as something absolutely fantastic, and then when we get home, it's like nothing, despite the fact that we have actually delivered on the objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217194124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217194126	No, I don't think it's weird. I read somewhere I can't remember who's quoted for the fact that the Paris agreement was much better than feared, but far from enough to solve the challenges. That is why it can be said that the Paris Agreement is just the beginning of the work that the world needs to do. I agree that that agreement is, of course, not ambitious enough to solve the problem of climate change, but it means that we are in the process. Then I would just like to say that yesterday there were some forecasts that we appear to be achieving the 40-percent target by 2020, and I am very pleased about that. What I am worried about is whether the majority we have obtained in Denmark might well adopt some things that are beginning to move in the other direction. And that is why I am pleased that the Conservatives are joining us here, because that means that, after all, and hopefully, there are some who are fighting for the initiatives that will come in next year's Finance Act and next year's agricultural package again, what it may be, after all, is not going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217194224	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217194237	The SF can also support the motion for a resolution. There should be no doubt that when, for the first time ever, the SF entered a government together with the Social Democrats and the Radical Left in 2010, one of our ambitions was that Denmark should be the world's most ambitious society in terms of climate objectives. And the first objective we put into the government base was 40%. in 2020, and it was an ambition that the rest of the world looked at, something we could be proud of. Then I have heard many myths that it bothers business to grow, that it creates fewer jobs, but the reality is different. If something has grown in Denmark, then it is employment and growth precisely in the green transition. We have many small and medium-sized Danish companies, among others. in the middle and west Jutland, which makes a living from developing components, both for renewable energy, but also for energy savings. And then we also have some of the great ones in the world. We have Grundfos, we have Danfoss, we have Velux, we have many more who live from the fact that we have always had goals in Denmark. Let me just give you one example, and that is that we have doubled our economy since 1980 and doubled our economy without using more energy. This would not have been possible if we had not been ambitious in terms of energy savings. And it's nothing to remember to turn off the light when you go out of space, even though my husband thinks it's the most important ambition in the world. It is, for example, that we have thermostats on our radiators, or that we have energy-efficient pumps, or that we have developed windows in our houses that can help create energy in reality instead of using energy. These are some of the solutions we provide to the rest of the world, because believe me, there is something the world is asking for, so it is energy saving because energy is scarce. That's what we do, among other things. I am therefore pleased that we are still maintaining great ambitions and great hopes for the future. There should be no doubt that Denmark is very concerned that the green companies want to stay in Denmark and use Denmark as their home market. There is a great competition in Europe to be first. We see this from both Britain and Germany; there is a great desire to be a little faster than Denmark if they can get to it because they want to be the place where they develop the new solutions. You know that this is what creates new jobs and new export opportunities. I think that we should maintain 80 000 jobs that we are talking about, and that is approx. 9% I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. I think that is possible after the ambitions of Paris. And I have to say that there is a temperature increase of less than 2 degrees is actually an insanely ambitious target. I don't think we're gonna make it. I hope so, because I'm very hopeful by nature, but I think it's going to be difficult. And in relation to the fact that it was turned up further, i.e. that we are talking about 11⁄2 degree, one should have no doubt that this is going to be insanely difficult. If we do not reach 11⁄2 degrees, and it would be a dream that we could reach 11⁄2 degrees, then there are places in the world that will experience floods. We have recently seen on Danish television that Bangladesh is one of the places where they have experienced whole agricultural land being flooded with salt water so that they have nothing to grow; they live on dams. And there is nothing to argue that these people should stay in Bangladesh. At some point they start to move away because they really become climate refugees, and then we will face a completely different challenge in the future. So we have to solve the problems now and here, both if we want to have fewer climate refugees in the future, but also if we want to deliver in relation to the objective. It's ambitious, and it's gonna be hard. I think Denmark can make some opportunities out of it. We can create jobs in Denmark. I also believe that, if we do this, we can have some pride in delivering the planet to our children and grandchildren. I sometimes think that is an ambition when it comes to politics. So we support the motion for a resolution. There should be no doubt that we are constantly going to push the bar and want to be even more ambitious, just so the Conservatives know that they cannot lie there and sleep on the couch. For there is a sincere wish in Denmark, both at SF, but I think it is also broadly in Denmark, broadly in Danish business, that we should constantly push the bar so that it is we who are the pioneer country that we have employment that we deliver the innovative solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217194716	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217194734	Thank you very much. I must start by admitting to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that the couch could seem tempting at the moment, this evening, but not when it comes to the green transition. I would like to thank the Minister for a friendly speech and a good speech in the debate and, of course, also the many rapporteurs who have been up and talking about this motion for a resolution. I must honestly admit that, in the light of the question debate we have just had, I did not really envisage such a long debate, so I shall not make my speech here too long. However, I would like to stress that it is important for the Conservative People's Party that Denmark takes the lead in the green transition, not because I actually imagine that the Danish contribution alone will prevent global warming, which will wipe island states from the world map, which will cause massive drought and associated famines, and which will cause massive rain, which will destroy the fertile layer of land, more violent storms and extreme weather. After all, my Danish self-understanding is not that great. We are a small country. But world leaders tend to play the game after you, sir. It is in this way that when there is a need to act, we are always waiting for the others to take the first step. There is a need for nations that do not wait, but act that do not look on, but who say not. I want Denmark to be such a nation. We have tabled the motion for a resolution here today because we believe that Denmark should have an ambition to have reduced its CO2 by 2020 compared to 1990, as long as it does not cost Danish jobs. We thought so before the elections, when we voted in favour of the Climate Act, we mean that after the elections, together with a majority. There's no change in that. However, as I said, there are always our reservations about Danish jobs, competitiveness and employment. We could simply go to get this voted through and to put the government in a minority, but frankly it would be more politically teasing than responsible to the climate. You can force the horse into the trough, but you can't force it to drink. Therefore, it serves Denmark and the climate best if we try to work constructively together on this proposal and we jointly set some long-term goals for how Denmark should have reduced its CO2 It should of course also be seen in the light of the figures presented the other day, which show that it seems that the forecasts show that we are well on the way. I do not want to go so far as to say that we have reached 40%. in 2020, because it may also be that we have reached 35%, but it looks more positive than the previous forecasts have shown. I have been in a constructive dialogue with the government on how to make the best of this forward-looking. That is why this proposal will go on to committee and the recommendation will be that we agree on a report, and I have had a very good dialogue with the government on that. I would like to read it out briefly: Denmark must have a climate policy in which high green ambitions are combined with common sense for the benefit of consumers and businesses. It is important that Denmark is active and ambitious in resolving the climate challenges for future generations. At the same time, however, it is important that climate action is cost-effective and implemented taking into account growth, the competitiveness of Danish business and employment in general. Climate action must create jobs and not cost jobs. Based on the published status of the Climate Council and their recommendation on maintaining the 40 per cent target, it needs to be fleshed out how Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced by up to 40 per cent by 2020 (compared to 1990 levels). This must be done without impairing our growth, the competitiveness of companies or employment. It is up to the parties to the future finance laws to point out the financing of further climate policy initiatives. Finally, the government will set a single national reduction target for 2030 by mid-2017. We see it as a very great victory that Denmark is now going to have a single national reduction target for 2030, and we will fight for it to be as ambitious as what our neighbouring countries have, but we should not draw that conclusion now. There's still some time left. However, we would certainly recommend involving the Climate Council in the work that awaits. That is what I wanted to say, and I look forward to a good discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195233	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195238	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur has tightened up to this car with the severe weather events of storms, floods, etc. Is it the case that the rapporteur can help me because I have been looking for a very long time to find the link between CO2 Is it the case that the rapporteur is familiar with professional sources or places to find out if there is such a connection? Because then there is no reason to make people nervous if it is as DMI writes, namely that we have fewer storms now than we had before. I would like to understand those concerns, so if the climate rapporteur has such sources, it would be very welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195331	I am rather surprised that the questioner refers to the DMI, because they actually have a lot of interesting data on this. I cannot follow the interpretation of DMI's data provided by the rapporteur. Honestly, I have to admit that. I believe that I am far from being the only one who points out that violent weather is the result of climate change. I know I'm not the only one who has that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195355	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195358	I think that many of the storms may have more consequences today because we live as we do because we fortify our urban areas and such things according to the fact that we have more CO2 but let it be. At least we don't have as many storms now as we had before. Then I can see in this amendment that a discussion has begun on where to find the money. In other words, we need to find money, at the same time as we need to be more ambitious, and back to what I said from the platform before: how on earth can we be more ambitious, without the loss of growth and employment, if we are to find more money for subsidies?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195452	Well, one of the things we could choose to find money for, for example, is to lower taxes on electricity, which is one of the things the Climate Council has recommended. It goes hand in hand with Danish growth and employment. So it would be obvious to find money for it, and I could imagine that will be one of the things the Conservative People's Party brings to the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195513	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195519	Thank you very much. I think we are all interested in the green transition also helping to create jobs, but I think it is so incredibly important that we do not get too square and too dogmatic an approach to this talk about jobs. We have a problem that, in the worst case scenario, will make large parts of the globe uninhabitable for people, so let us not say that we should only solve this problem if it does not cost jobs. Then it becomes extremely absurd. So let's just agree that even if you can probably get someone to make some kind of note that shows that certain very necessary measures, for example. In the case of agriculture or the transport sector, it can cost jobs in a sector, so what we need to do is to see that we also create positions of strength in those areas, for example. the climate-friendly agriculture of the future or the climate-neutral transport sector of the future. That is what we need to see, instead of thinking that the jobs we have in 20 to 30 years are the same as we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195625	I agree with the rapporteur that we are going to have some other jobs in Denmark. Hopefully we will have more green jobs. The wonderful thing about them is that they are often located in the outskirtsdanmark. It is a cheap way of getting jobs rather than perhaps moving out quite so many. But I would just like to point out that in the text I read there is also employment in general. In fact, it is also a recognition that there is a development in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195650	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195652	I am very pleased because I think it is incredibly important that we have this broad approach to employment and jobs here, and at the same time recognise that, in the future, in 10-15 years' time, the sectors that we have not really gotten on the road yet, which are agriculture and transport, will look significantly different than they are today. That is the only way we can achieve the long-term CO2 and, as the rapporteur also says, as soon as we look forward to 2030, those sectors will certainly have had to undergo a very massive green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195724	It goes without saying that we are getting some commitments from the European Union. We already know that. If we on the Conservative side stick to it with jobs, it is also in recognition that, although it is important for Denmark to take the lead, we do not do so alone. Sometimes you also have to make the assessment whether a further Danish effort is as valuable as putting pressure on other countries. This is something we have to solve together, and I think it will benefit if Denmark takes the lead. That is why we have the view we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195753	Thank you to the rapporteur. We need to see if Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr is on. A brief comment on Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195811	Thank you. I'm sorry I got in and out and everything. I didn't mean to confuse anyone. This is like a follow-up to Mr. Villum Christensen's speech. In 2009, when the Left and Conservatives sat together in government, the Climate Commission, which was the then government commission, presented a major work on climate change in Denmark and also on the global consequences, including more unsteady weather, flood problems, drought challenges, challenges due to a warmer sea, for example, a warmer sea will. That means that corals will die, and if the corals die, there are small animals in the sea that feed on the corals that die, and then the fish will die. It can actually be a huge challenge, which also has consequences for Denmark, even if it happens far away from us. Does the rapporteur of the Conservatives believe that the results of the Climate Commission, which the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen praised, are useful and that Mr. Villum Christensen can therefore choose to look into the 2009 report?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195934	Of course, I think so, and I am actually happy to get that source on. I'm sure there are a thousand others. That is also why the question put by the previous questioner was rather surprised at me, because I do not really see it as if there is a very scientific discussion that this is a consequence. Then I am pleased with the reference to the source.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195953	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217195954	I would like to follow up on that, because I believe that almost 99.8%. of global climate scientists recognise that there are man-made climate change. I also hope that a broad majority in the Folketing recognises this, despite the fact that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur does not believe that there is a question of man-made climate change. So it's just to stress that I think there's quite a lot of evidence of those claims.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200021	I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200023	The next brief remark is from Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200029	I think that Mrs Mette Abildgaard has been a fresh, green breath for the Conservative People's Party here after the parliamentary elections, and I am also full of praise for this proposal. However, I would like to raise a critical question for this agricultural package, the 16-point plan, with which the Conservative People's Party played out before the elections, because it increases CO2 tonnes according to the Danish Energy Agency. After all, the Conservative People's Party brought the agricultural package before the elections, then there was an election campaign where we did not really hear anything about climate, and now we want a 40% target again. Can the rapporteur understand that there is a little doubt as to how much the Conservative People's Party really thinks about this, when there is such a big difference between such an agricultural package and this Finance Act and the objective one wants to have?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200125	Now negotiations are under way on the agricultural package, and I know that both my party and your party are with it. No agreement has been closed yet, but we are very aware of what CO2 This is something we are asking about during the negotiations, and I think that your party should do that too, and I am sure you will. It is more to say that it is difficult to comment on when we do not have an agreement yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200150	I must again draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that there is no direct indictment in the Assembly. Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200200	[Sound Outfall]... our great careers... [Sound Outfall]... I am just wondering that the Conservative People's Party has not made sure to have it in such a 16-point plan that a CO 2 would then arise but great praise that you now remember it during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200224	I regret very much that I am here in the Chamber in the tenth hour, so I can feel that I am not so sharp in my head anymore. I would just like to say to the rapporteur that it is true that this element should have been included even when the chronicle that led to the 16-point plan was made, but I think, after all, the most important thing must be that it is an element of the negotiations now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200243	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. It's agreed. ]
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200326	Thank you, President. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal here. The Enhedslisten envisages banning all activity related to shale gas in Denmark, and the proposers also believe that the Government should withdraw the one existing permit concerning shale gas. The government's line on the question of shale gas is clear: the Government does not wish to pre-depreciate the possibility of revenue from the possible production of shale gas as long as it can be carried out in full environmental and safety terms. We must not forget that since the production of oil and gas began in 1972 up to and including 2014, the state has had revenue from oil and gas activities in the North Sea, equivalent to 404 billion. kr. The authors of Enhedslisten travel among others. the question of the climate effects relating to shale gas. All forecasts require that fossil fuels, despite the extensive green transition, will be an important part of the energy system in Denmark for many years to come, and therefore there is also good sense in bringing natural gas onto the market. Especially if the natural gas replaces the much more polluting coal, it will be on the plus side of the climate. If Denmark refrains from exploiting any new sources of gas production, the potential Danish gas production will simply be replaced by gas elsewhere, without guaranteeing that production elsewhere will take place according to as strict environmental requirements as in Denmark. In my view, therefore, there are no climate reasons for stopping the investigation for gas in Denmark. Another issue of concern to the proposers is environmental considerations. I understand the concern about drinking water and our environment at all. It is precisely for this reason that it is important to stress that there is a great deal of thoroughness in the previous environmental studies on new projects. This is among other things. It is also precisely the concerns about the environment and drinking water, which are the reason why we have chosen to continue the temporary stop for the granting of new permits for the extraction of shale gas introduced by the previous government in 2012. For me and the government it is crucial that the future of shale gas in Denmark is taken on as good a basis as possible. The stop for the issue of permits is therefore maintained until we get the overall results from the drilling in North Jutland and the national scientific analysis on shale gas, which will form the basis for a thorough evaluation. When the evaluation is completed, the Danish Parliament will have a more general discussion on whether to investigate and recover shale gas in Denmark and under which framework it will be possible to do so. When I assess the consequences of adopting B 18, there are three things that speak directly against the proposal. Firstly, Denmark risks losing tax revenue if it turns out to be shale gas that can be recovered commercially, environmentally and safely. Secondly, Denmark could appear to be an unstable country for investment in oil and gas activities if Total's authorisation is revoked. This could have negative consequences that go beyond the question of shale gas recovery. Thirdly, the motion for a resolution could result in a claim for damages from the rightholder of the Northern Jutland permit. The Government stands by the agreement with Total and the Nordsøfonden regarding their permission for exploration and extraction of oil and gas in North Jutland. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200718	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200724	Thank you very much. After all, I noticed that the Minister was very pleased with the agreement made in Paris this weekend, where all the countries of the world have committed themselves to working to ensure that the global temperature increase does not exceed 1.5 degrees. This means that over 80%. of the well-known stocks of fossil fuels must remain in the ground, and this means that there are some who should not pick them up. If it is not to be Denmark that also contributes to not picking up some of the fossil fuels that can be in our underground, who will it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200810	Thank you for the question. Fossil fuels will be needed for many years to come both in Denmark and internationally, before we can hopefully be independent of fossil fuels in Denmark in 2050 at least. Until then, it is important that we use fossil fuels with such a low CO2 level.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200846	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200847	I should like to start by pointing out that there is a great deal of uncertainty as regards the measurements that exempt shale gas, i.e. that it should be a significant alternative to coal, among other things. Because it does not take into account the emissions of methane around the drilling. So let's make it number one. The second was that the Minister did not reply to what I asked. It may well be that in the coming years globally we will still be dependent on fossil fuels, but surely we should not contribute to a race where it is about picking them up as quickly as possible. Some have to leave their fossil fuels underground if we are to reach the 1.5 degree target because over 80%. of the known stocks must stay down there. If it is not to be Denmark, who will it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200931	To the extent that Denmark can use energy resources in the underground and we do so in a way that does not affect the environment environmentally, including does not affect drinking water etc., we are ready for it. It also helps to make us less dependent on oil and natural gas from politically unstable areas in the Middle East, Russia and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217200954	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201001	Thank you, Mr President. Part of what happened in North Jutland was the release of what is called alumshiffer, which consists of the substances uranium, thorium, radium and radon. The reason I mention this is that these are substances that cause radiation. I can see through a public access to the State Institute for Radiation Protection, and I quote from a report from 21 August that:... according to the above analysis results, the activity concentration of naturally occurring radioactive substances varies down through the upper part of the alum slate. Activity concentration is in more cases higher than the values for exemption levels... that is, there is actually more radiation than that allowed. Now that we are discussing what these demands are, among other things. Is this not the result of the State Institute for Radiation Protection that should be for the environment and for the protection of human beings, should it not be a reflection of thought and mean that the government is proposing that we should ban shale gas, when we can now see that it actually has quite violent consequences and also more violent than had been expected?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201117	The conditions mentioned here by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr will be conditions that must be included in the subsequent study of experience from North Jutland, as well as experiences both nationally and internationally. That basis must be in place before the government is prepared to grant new permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201139	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201141	[Sound emission]... radioactive waste has subsequently been dumped into an ordinary landfill. After all, we all know that radioactive waste is to be deposited as radioactive, and there we are faced with the huge challenge that just the radioactive waste that we have from Risø, there are, in fact, no municipalities in Denmark who want to subsequently deposit, and if we get additional radioactive waste in connection with drilling after shale gas, it will only increase that problem. Does it not give the Minister some thought to the challenges we face, and should it not therefore be a more fundamental decision than just a moratorium and therefore a decision that drilling after shale gas actually has such serious consequences that it makes sense to impose a ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201226	Thank you for the question. I think it is quite appropriate that before we decide whether to grant new permits, we should look at all these different conditions that have been around drilling in North Jutland. It is also my very clear view that, in the drilling that has been carried out, all environmental requirements that have been made and they have been quite significant, both municipal and state, have been complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201252	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201256	The Enhedslisten has now formulated the proposal in such a way that the Danish Parliament requires the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that a ban on the exploration and recovery of shale gas in Denmark is introduced. After all, the government can choose to receive this in such a way that it is forward-looking and that, in such a way, it does not touch the authorisation that Total has until June 2016. That is how you can choose to see it, but it is clearly the position of the Enhedslisten that we should stop with everything as soon as possible. I know that the Minister has been very committed to what rights municipalities that have the prospect of coastal mills should have and how they should be involved. There has been no discussion at all about what rights municipalities should have in relation to shale gas drilling. There are a number of municipalities in northern Jutland that do not think they have been properly involved. I would like to hear from the Minister what rights the Minister imagines could be given to municipalities if it is the case that more permits are to be granted for shale gas drilling.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201402	Thank you for the question. There must of course be dialogue with the municipalities where there could be potential opportunities to exploit shale gas, and it is important that there is a good and positive dialogue, including with local populations in those areas. I must also say that it is so that if it turns out that there is shale gas in the underground in a particular place, it is a national interest, and then it is the overall interest of the State in relation to what is applicable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201426	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201427	One has been able to read in the Worker quite recently I think it was yesterday that this shale gas drilling in North Jutland has cost about 480 million. kr. and that the Nordsøfonden has to pay 98 million. kr. of that amount. I think that is a rather large amount of money in that it did not make much of it either. I think it would be interesting if we could get into a process of reviewing what the resources of the North Sea Fund are to be used for. It could, for example, be done. be that they could help to get drilled after geothermals in Denmark. I would like to know if the Minister could see any potential in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201503	There can be a lot of potential in many different contexts in this. I have to say that the worker is not exactly the kind of newspaper I read every day, and I would recommend that the questioner put a written question as regards the verification of these figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201517	Thank you, Minister. And the first rapporteur is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217201538	Thank you for that, President. I am really pleased that the Enhedslisten has tabled this motion for a resolution. I think that in fact there has been far too little debate on this area in this House. Outside our glorious Danish country, however, there has been much debate and of course not least in North Jutland, where a lot of people have been concerned about the prospect of shale gas extraction. And as a Social Democrat, I fully understand the concern. For it has always been our clear position that shale gas should not be extracted if it can be at the expense of environmental protection, for example. our groundwater and other things that risk being destroyed for good. I think it has been said very, very many times that we will not compromise on it. But it is also clear that if there is to be any sense that the things we are discussing are actually taken seriously, then it requires that there is openness about the discussions we have had. And that's where I think we've gotten a little backwards into the discussion about switching gas. Because at the time, some of these permits were granted, there was very little transparency about what it was actually about and what the consequences were. When we were in government, we were helping to tighten up some demands. Some decisions were, so to speak, taken to Copenhagen, to the state, because some of the things left to the municipality in North Jutland should not have been handed over to the municipality alone, all the time that it was a responsibility that we should have assumed here in the Folketing. It was also a discussion which was of national interest, as the Minister mentioned. When the Social Democrats were in government, we introduced a temporary stop, and the current government has chosen to continue that stop. I think that is wise because we are waiting for evaluations of both what has happened in Dybvad and the other experiences and analyses, if that is to say, as the current Minister for Agriculture and Food is in charge of, in other words, the national one. There are also some international experiences, and of course we look forward to getting those things on the table when the government has gathered those experiences. We are also looking forward to having a hearing on this matter in the Folketing, which, as it were, has already been announced, and I look forward to having the discussion. However, it is also clear that it would be somewhat backwards if, at this stage, before the discussion on whether it can be done environmentally soundly and safely, it were concluded that it would not be allowed. That is why we are not voting in favour of the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, because it would, of course, be a conclusion before we have taken part in the evaluation which, in many ways and rightly, should have taken place in much greater openness when the process was entered into. So, to sum up, we Social Democrats are voting against the resolution here. But of course we say yes to a thorough evaluation and collection of international experience and yes to looking at what experiences and experiences have been gained in Dybvad. And it must then be summed up so that we can consider whether there should continue to be the temporary stop that the Socialist-led government introduced or whether different conclusions should be drawn from the extraction of switching gas. As the Minister has said, it is also clear that it is potentially a question of quite a lot of money, and if we could make it environmentally responsible, it would also be a little irresponsible of us to say in advance that it will not help to discuss this at all, regardless of the fact that it could then cost the Treasury a great deal of money. It should also be remembered that the revenue that can be obtained from it can also be used for very sensible things. We have used them in the past to ensure that the foreign oil companies in the North Sea paid the same as the Danish ones, so that the Train Fund DK could get on track. This is something that we in the Socialist Group feel both a green transition and a positive development in which we can easily see ourselves. So we do not support this resolution, but we are very, very aware of the concerns that have been out there and of the evaluation and the discussion that we should, as it were, have on our backs when they are gathered.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202028	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202033	Thank you. I would just like to say that I think there have actually been a great many of these shale gas conferences where we have become reasonably clever that we know a lot, but that we know it relatively uncertainly. What I think is relevant and why we are positive about this proposal is that this case of shale gas is so much about applying the precautionary principle. In other words, there are a lot of risks here, which are about whether there can be damage to houses, whether we can destroy our drinking water, whether we can have gas leaks, etc. Does that not concern the rapporteur and is it really not enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202125	We in the Social Democratic Party are very much in favour of the principle that Mr. Christian Poll refers to, namely the precautionary principle, one can say in particular in such cases, let us call it serious situations. We do, of course, when we otherwise extract oil elsewhere, even at sea. Well, we're taking special precautions to minimize the risk. And, of course, when we say that it should be environmentally sound, it is also with that in mind: what is at risk if it goes wrong? So it is clear that the greater the consequence, the cost, is that things are going wrong, the more certain one has to be that it does not. So the precautionary principle is also relevant in this context. However, the precautionary principle does not make us refuse to discuss whether it can be done in a way that is sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202217	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202220	That is interesting, but I would also like to say that the next question is: if damage occurs, what then? And there I have the impression that for example. The environmental liability directive, which has been implemented in Danish legislation, will not apply here, because when you have given an authorisation from the authorities to a company, the company is not responsible for remedying the damage that could be done on houses, on groundwater and on other things. Then it will end up as something we all have to pay over the tax ticket in some form or other.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202255	Well, we've recently shown just before the election, so sir. Christian Poll probably wasn't involved in the discussion • discussed extraction in general, what kind of demands we make on how companies should insure themselves. So it can be said that we can tackle the problem, that it is done legally to insure against some things, and if that is what we are like stranded on, then I think we should also discuss it. Even if you always have to wear what now, if the hat is on, then of course the most important thing for me is to ensure that the risk is minimal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202332	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202336	It's fine to want to collect international experience. There are, among other things: Some countries in Europe which, after trying to drill after shale gas, have banned it. We have examples from some countries which do not normally have earthquakes, but where suddenly there has been intense sentence damage to buildings, so you have had to prevent people from entering those houses. So I think it is quite easy to take some experience from other countries and say that it is very uncertain what is happening, because the underground is not the same in all countries. Then I also think there are some aspects that are about how many drilling towers will come in North Jutland if you really had to extract shale gas there. You know, you have a problem here and you have a problem setting up a single windmill. So I think that we already have enough international experience so that I do not think it is reasonable for the Social Democrats to say that the emphasis is on the economy so high that we cannot distance ourselves from shale gas in Denmark at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202443	I have a great deal of respect for the fact that Enhedslisten and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has come to their conclusion. You could also understand Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's colleague, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, says that there is a fundamental discussion about whether to extract more fossil fuels at all. I would just like to say that we in the Social Democratic Party are looking differently at the issue, all the time that we want a very ambitious one, that is what we have spent the last few hours at the level of how we phase out fossil energy and how we phase out the use of fossil fuels. But we do not have an ideological attitude as to whether it is one or the other kind of fossil fuel. There is also, and has been, in many places even though it is controversial, a positive effect of switching from coal to gas. What we have to do in the long term is to get completely away from fossil fuels, but in the short term there may well be a discussion about it. So we are not ideologically opposed to discussing shale gas. We just want extraction to be environmentally sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202548	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202552	I believe that all fossil fuels must be extracted on a sound basis. I just think there are so many indicators from other countries that there are some side effects that there are some risks when you go into this field of shale gas drilling. Then I think there must be a price. So, the fact that you have made one drilling in North Jutland and that you are up to the amount of 1⁄2 billion. kr., I think we should consider what an expensive fossil energy supply you want to invest on instead of spending the money on renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202629	There is, of course, always a discussion of how to do it, and I am in favour of the fact that, according to the worker, there is at least an investment from the Nordsøfonden, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen referred to earlier. And then you just have to say that this is an area in which private investors invest, and you have to assume that it is because they consider that there is something to come and pick up. Of course, I fully agree that we must also and to a much greater extent invest in the development of our renewable energy sources. But this is not the same as saying that, while we are converting to renewable energy, we must not extract fossil fuels which, moreover, we can extract environmentally and safely. And I believe that there must be extra stringent requirements for shale gas to safeguard us from the uncertainty felt by a great many citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202721	The next brief remark is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202726	There are very high risks associated with shale gas drillings. That's the way it is! And I am quite aware that a study has now been launched to find out how safe this can be, but there will never be any complete guarantees for anything. So what will always remain, no matter what the results of this science come up with, is that it will create uncertainty... completely unacceptable uncertainty... for the people who are going to live around these boreholes. In fact, I think that the fundamental question of fossil fuels is very important, because otherwise we will end up with this climate debate being a little bit of a double standard in one way or another. Because if we say that we think we should change our own society, but also know that we should make 80% globally. of the fossil fuels remain in the ground, we also have to decide if it's okay that we empty our own subsoil.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202841	I agree with Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding that this is a matter of principle, but I think that we in the Social Democratic Party are in a different place from the Enhedslisten, and I have some doubts as to whether Enhedslisten also believes that we should stop the extraction in the North Sea, because that might just as well be thought, if we take the principle of leaving fossil fuels alone. That would be perfectly legitimate, but that is not the way we are going. What we are going to do is to ensure that the use of energy for the use of renewable energy is converted and that we will ensure that this has been done completely by 2050. However, as long as fossil fuels are used, we actually think it is a better idea to pull them up and use them, just as everyone else does, to invest in some of the things we all agree to do to transform our society, and that could be our electric train operation, as we decided to do in the previous reign.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202934	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217202936	Of course, these are two slightly different discussions. With regard to what is about shale gas, we just need to be very aware that we are dealing with an unconventional form of fossil fuel, which requires simply blowing up the underground with the huge risks that will always follow, for groundwater and for people living around it. There we must have the political courage to face up to the risks that we are putting the population at risk. Then there is the issue of fossil fuels: yes, I can assure the rapporteur that we are always voting no; we are always rejecting applications for new concessions and we believe that the new 1.5-degree target should lead us to consider whether we can get out of existing oil wells more quickly, because we have a moral responsibility here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203028	Well, we can discuss that easily. I would like to see the funding of how to maintain it here, from the Enhedslisten, before we start discussing whether or not it makes sense. Because you can't just say: we wash our hands and leave the morals if you don't want to discuss the price of it too, you can say, moral stand as you have. And you can easily maintain that you are less interested in it. Because the Social Democrats are about making a balance. When I said before that I think you should be extra careful about shale gas, it is acting among other things. about that we have some other conditions around the shale gas on land than we have around some of the boreholes in the sea. That is why the two security systems, if you may say so, cannot be just one for one. That is why we can discuss what special requirements we should make when extracting shale gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203119	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203123	Thank you. I think it's a little hard to figure out what S means in the shale gas case. Well, it's also clear that you're waiting for an investigation, so it's hard to make a specific statement. However, as the rapporteur speaks of caution, I would still like to hear from the rapporteur: even before the drilling tower came up on the drilling field up in Dybvad, there was a rainstorm which, according to photos found among the shale gas protesters up in North Jutland, shows that the site was completely flooded. This means that if at that time there had been drilling after the shale gas test drill, the sample fracket and there had been radioactive waste water in the large sewage basins, then it would have been flushed all over the surrounding area. When the rapporteur thinks that this is the precautionary principle, what impression does it make to the rapporteur that we have been so close even before this adventure has started to have a real disaster of radioactive pollution in North Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203232	With all due respect for the fact that we would like to have a clear position at this stage, the questioner is also right that the reason why we have not concluded anything yet is that we do not know what it shows. But when I say that we in the Socialist Group are going to discuss this, we did it when we were in government, that we made a temporary stop, and we also tightened up the procedures and the permits that we could and which we took home because we think it is very important to get under control. But when we have said that our final position is, of course, also awaiting the experience of Dybvad, I assume that the experience and pictures of the protest activists who were around the borehole in North Jutland will be part of the experience we have in relation to North Jutland, that is, what was happening or not happening in the given situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203327	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203328	Well, the Social Democratic Party is to be thanked for the temporary stop you have helped to make, and at least all your efforts to be careful about shale gas. We're gonna need S when we're gonna get the shale gas final out of Denmark, I'm afraid. But I would just like to hear the rapporteur's thoughts on another matter. It is the case that there may be real, very much shale gas in our underground, and it can lead to a long-lasting adventure with technology and lots of drilling sites etc. Does it worry that we are going to get on with it, not the rapporteur, in that we might be preventing the development of alternative, renewable energy, which could have become a necessity if we had not got really, very cheap shale gas into the market?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203422	I think we might overestimate the presence of Danish shale gas in relation to what it does to the market as such, if we think that the extraction of shale gas makes it impossible to invest in renewable energy sources, and I have referred a few times in the debate to what we have referred to, among other things. In the past, it has produced revenue, i.e. a tax payment, from the extraction of fossil fuels in relation to making a sustainable green conversion. So for me, it's not necessarily each other's opposites. It is clear, of course, that the extraction of fossil energy and the price of it have an effect on the comparative price of renewable energy, if you like. We cannot simply sit on our hands and do nothing and not make money in Denmark to prevent the world market from having very cheap fossil energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203512	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203531	I would like to begin by saying that in the Danish People's Party we reject the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, and we do so on the grounds that we are in favour of making the best possible use of natural resources in Denmark for the benefit of its citizens and for the benefit of the country's economy. We have a decades of experience of exploiting oil and gas deposits in the North Sea, and this has led to Denmark, among other things. is self-sufficient with oil and gas. This has also led us to obtain substantial revenue from the Treasury for the decades that have passed. In Denmark there are also deposits of shale gas in several different locations. Most recently, test drilling has been carried out in North Jutland, which has shown that there is shale gas in the underground, but which is certainly not used commercially in this process. In the Danish People's Party, we hope that in the long term it is possible to extract shale gas if it is present, among other things. in order to pursue the strategy of Denmark being self-sufficient in energy, and we hope that the shale gas can help to prolong self-sufficiency for many years to come. Thus we can keep Denmark independent of having to import energy from foreign countries which might want to exploit such dependence politically. It is also the case that we in Denmark have a very good gas infrastructure network. We have our natural gas grid, on which many households are connected. They thus get their warming from the North Sea. The Skifer Gas could also easily be available and help to supply Danish households with good and relatively cheap energy for heating. There is also the advantage that using the already existing gas network could open gas stations if we start using gas in the transport sector to a greater extent than is the case now. There are many advantages in using gas, for example. for urban buses, because the exhaust emissions from urban buses operating on gas are much cleaner than the exhaust emissions from diesel-powered urban buses into the environment. So there could be a good environmental argument in using some of this shale gas as fuel for city buses. I would also like to say that we in the Danish People's Party stress that it must be done in an environmentally sound way if we are to extract shale gas in Denmark. It is important for us that the residents who are going to live near the places where the shale gas is extracted feel safe about it and that it is happening in an environmentally sound way at all and that the neighbours do not feel insecure about it. For it must be in order both environmentally and healthly. In other words, we see prospects in the extraction of shale gas in Denmark, not only for the sake of self-sufficiency but also for the sake of the economy. As I have said, the Treasury can get a large amount of revenue in the long term because of this, but it is at the same time stressing that it must of course take place environmentally soundly. So I can conclude that we in the Danish People's Party reject the resolution. Furthermore, I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance and say that the Liberal Alliance also rejects it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203849	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217203855	There are absolutely no environmental benefits of shale gas. What the rapporteur may be referring to is a hypothetical climate advantage, which comes only from some specific calculations which do not measure the methane emissions around drilling. The extraction of shale gas causes great risks to the people living around the wells and great risks to our common drinking water, and I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Does the rapporteur, and is it the position of the Danish People's Party, believe that it is reasonable to expose the people, the people, in Denmark to such great uncertainties and concerns when they can look abroad and see what has resulted from unfortunate consequences, that is to say serious pollutions, people affected by serious diseases, earthquakes in areas where there have never been earthquakes, because you drill so deep and make horizontal blasts of the underground to grab this gas? Does the Danish People's Party consider it an acceptable uncertainty to expose the population to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204008	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we in the Danish People's Party believe that the extraction of shale gas should take place in an environmentally sound manner and where safety is of course in order. Therefore, there must be commercial use of the shale gas, which has been established there. And then it has to be done on the basis of thorough studies and on the basis of the experiences that you have, both from Denmark and from abroad, and we feel quite confident that these things will be analysed to the bottom before you start actual extraction on a large scale.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204048	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204050	The Danish People's Party's confidence in what can be scientifically predicted is touching, but I think it is very important to make it clear that this is associated with great uncertainties. We do not have the full overview of what can be caused by the consequences of drilling several kilometres into the underground and horizontally out and making blasts with dangerous chemicals to pull up a gas again. You can examine and read documents from here and forever, and you will never be able to guarantee the Danes that it will not pollute the drinking water and that it will not cause completely unacceptable consequences for the people who live around these wells.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204130	I have to point out once again that we do not use direct indictments in the Assembly. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204135	Yes, the rapporteur would like to reply to the questioner: I can only say what I have said all along, and that is that we are in favour of safety and the environment being in order. I am not an expert, and I assume that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding is not, either, even though it might sound that way to the way in which the votes are conducted and to the conviction that is being expressed, but we are, as we know, lay people here in the Folketing, so we must listen to the experts who may be there and to the analyses and experiences that may be from elsewhere. And so do we in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204211	The next brief remark is from Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204216	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions a number of needs or uses of gas, and I agree with him, because there are many advantages in changing some of our technologies in a transition from coal and oil to gas, for example. But we can get gas in many other ways, and the great potential that lies right in front of us is, after all, to produce biogas to a much greater extent from our green waste, from our slurry. In this way, some of the smell problems that are in the countryside could also be solved by manure application. When you consider that 98 million have been spent. kr. of North Sea Fund money just on this test exploration drilling, is it not reasonable to spend this kind of investment much more on producing biogas for the future instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204310	I would like to say that one of the main elements of the Danish People's Party's energy policy is also that we of course use the resources there are, but that we also use the cheapest possible solutions. So we are not rejecting biogas as a future source of energy in Denmark, but I have to say that at this stage, as we are now, the technology has not been developed enough to compete with other forms of gas production without having to be subsidised on a larger scale. So if the biogas becomes cheaper at some point, it is obvious that it is used, but we have no ideological claim for shale gas, other than that we would like to use the resources that are there if it is competitively justified and of course also environmentally sound, but I think I have repeated that four or five times today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204402	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204404	If you look at it in a social context, I now believe that there are benefits also in the socio-economic context for biogas. Some of the disadvantages, or some of the barriers, are that the green waste is being burned at the moment and that you want to fill up the ovens. If we can find a mechanism to improve the bio-forgassing of green waste, then we will also solve the climate problems, which we have talked so much about in the past. So doesn't it have those benefits too?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204435	Now it is the case that no matter how much value is attached to the research that says that CO2 So I do not think that we can save the whole world by using biogas instead of shale gas in Denmark. That is why, as my party's rapporteur, I would like to say that we still believe that we should take advantage of the deposits of gas that are in Denmark, whether it be natural gas or shale gas or biogas. We need what is most economically viable, but also, of course, if it is environmentally sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204516	The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204520	Now I have understood all the positive things the rapporteur has to say about shale gas recovery, but I would also like to know what three things the rapporteur thinks are most worrying about a potential Danish shale gas reversal and fracking.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204543	I do not have a sufficient basis for commenting on this. Of course, there is a risk of accidental incidents in any form of activity or productivity, where one is going to waste or where there will be emissions of some kind. This is also true of energy production, as shale gas is, and of course we must try to minimise that as much as possible. But I cannot answer on a stand-by basis what three worst risks are involved here, nor what three worst risks are involved in other forms of energy production.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204617	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204618	Then I would like to know whether the rapporteur has been in Dybvad and seen the drill field up there, and in that case what the rapporteur would think of imagining that vision, i.e. a drilling field the size of several football fields with a large drill tower in the middle, a hundred or perhaps a thousand places in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204645	Now I can almost figure out that the rapporteur imagines that several thousand drilling towers would be set up so that a very large part of Denmark's area would be covered. I didn't imagine it was on that scale that we were gonna use the shale gas. I myself have not been to Dybvad and seen the facility up there, but I do have a good colleague in my parliamentary group who actually lives in Dybvad and who has described it. So I have an impression of what it might be like. This is not something that I imagine should cover the entire area of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204719	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217204733	Thank you for that, President. B 18 is Enhedslisten's proposal for a ban on both exploration and extraction of shale gas. In this respect, the position of the Left is clear. We should not pre-empt the possibility of extracting shale gas. Of course, there are both advantages and disadvantages of shale gas, just as the debate also reflects it today. For example: shale gas is a more environmentally friendly gas than natural gas and coal. In addition, Skifergas postpones our dependence on other countries for a longer period of time if we were to find shale gas that can be extracted and currently. We know that we run out of what we know as natural gas in the North Sea within ten years. In addition, Denmark has gained some experience, which we have also discussed and have to discuss further, and that experience needs to be brought up, and it needs to be evaluated, but we have had some good experience in this area, which so far, I think, reflects some relatively small pollution risks. Previous minor pollutions, which are examples in the world, have occurred mainly on the surface. These are pollutions on the surface, which have been particularly noticed in drilling in Denmark, but which must of course also be controlled. In addition, the State has major economic interests if shale gas could be found. There is, of course, the North Sea Fund, but in addition we have a fairly high tax on extraction companies, which are taxed at 64 per cent. What we just have to recognise on a bottom line is that the green transition takes time. Whether you want to be free of gas in Denmark for ideological reasons, we have a dependence on it. But of course we need to be careful and, of course, we need to have a proper evaluation here during 2016 and then it must be more appropriate to take this discussion in the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205013	Thank you. The first comment is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205018	Thank you very much. Now the rapporteur and I were together in Paris, and we were both very happy when this agreement was concluded this weekend. One of the consequences of the global climate agreement is that some countries should leave their fossil fuels underground and not pick them up. There are plenty of countries that are very committed to doing so, also in the short run, to ensure the maximum economic gain. That is to say, there are some who must refrain from this temptation. There are some in this world who have to take responsibility and say: we choose to leave some of our fossil fuels underground because we know that we are going to ask other countries for the same thing. Is it not the rapporteur's view that one of the richest countries in the world, Denmark, also has a responsibility in relation to that task?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205114	The rapporteur is of the opinion that we have such an obligation to take responsibility for the agreement reached in Paris. That is also why I welcome the fact that we are one of the most advanced and leading countries in the world in terms of climate and energy. So, yes, the questioner is absolutely right. Denmark must, of course, also take a great responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205138	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205141	Thank you. But you have to take two kinds of responsibility here: you have to ensure the transition from fossil fuels nationally, and then you have to take stock of your own fossil fuel inventory and then assess how much of it you have to leave underground. That is the task of all countries. Because if all countries keep digging and pumping for full hammer, we won't reach the targets. So this obligation in relation to the 1.5-degree target has to be two-tier, and that also applies in Denmark. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205219	However, a green transition in which Denmark is independent of gas within 10 years does not seem realistic to me. The question therefore arises as to whether Denmark should be a net importer or a net exporter of gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205235	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205240	Thank you. As the rapporteur probably heard, I asked the Minister about the radioactive waste in connection with the drilling for shale gas in Dybvad. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is reasonable to put radioactive waste on a landfill site afterwards, and I think the rapporteur will say no to that, since it is illegal and how we prevent it from happening at a future new drilling site, since the permit is still there. Will the rapporteur be involved in setting very clear requirements, environmental and health, also to ensure the aquatic environment, since Denmark is, of course, obliged by the EU Water Framework Directive to reduce the discharge of dangerous substances to our aquatic environment and also to protect our groundwater, watercourses, streams and lakes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205338	Is it safe to throw radioactive waste into an incineration plant? No, it's not. How do we prevent that? That's one of the things we have to look at in this evaluation, that's how we're gonna deal with this. Will we be involved in making demands? Yeah, we'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205404	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205406	After all, this is not a new case; it is actually a case that has been running well for some time, and I have asked several questions to both the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Health and the Minister for the Environment, both before the elections and here after the elections. And I have to say that on the basis of these questions, I am still not quite sure that the government is aware of how necessary it is to put this in place quickly. This applies both to water quality and to the use of chemicals in fracking, and it is also a question of the subsequent radioactivity. And when the rapporteur says that we must come back to that, the rapporteur is very happy to make it clear to me when we will get back to something and whether it will just be another slow-down process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205456	It will be in 2016, and it will not be another delaying process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205500	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205504	Thank you. We are used to in Denmark when we talk about exploration of oil and gas, that we are both talking about something going on far out in the North Sea that you have to fly a few hours in helicopter or sail to to reach, it is not something we see, and we are also used to it happening on large drilling platforms that produce the same place for many, many years. What is the matter here in relation to what we saw in Dybvad and in general shale gas production in Denmark is that there will be many drilling towers and that they will have a relatively short lifespan, because such drilling will be exhausted in a month or a few years, and then you have to pull the drill up, and then you have to drill a new place. So there will most likely be a lot of drilling towers running all the time. Can the rapporteur confirm that this will mean a great deal to the countryside and how the citizens of the area will experience the local area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205608	I can confirm that you will be able to see it in the landscape, yes, if you set up drilling towers. I cannot answer the question of how many drilling towers will be set up, but the technology is developing, which means that you are not drilling as close as you used to. It is not the case that drilling towers are set up side by side in the same way as previously, now that you not only have to drill vertically, but also have to drill horizontally in the same drilling. Therefore, there is no need for the same number of drilling towers as has been seen in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205650	I think that duttery's gonna be a little contagious tonight. The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205659	I heard the rapporteur mention that it was for ideological reasons that Enhedslisten was against shale gas. It's not. It is, of course, some general environmental considerations that Enhedslisten takes, where we try to look at what is of negative experience elsewhere. With shale gas, it is not just a question of making a single borehole, and then you can have one drilling and suck gas up the underground for a lot of years. This is the fact that you have the prospect of a reality where there are several drilling towers and where there is uncertainty about our groundwater interests and how we protect our groundwater. It is of course extremely important that we have groundwater in the future. Then there is a near-miss environment, and there may be some people living in that neighborhood, and then we have this fracking, which means that sentence damage can occur. These are the experiences of other countries. And you can't just say that because it's like that in a particular city in the Netherlands, it's like that in Denmark. We have a precautionary principle that is more supportive here. It is for environmental reasons and because of a precautionary principle and not for ideological reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205804	I'm not quite sure what the question was. Many things were mentioned, among others. challenges relating to drinking water, and it is of course the case that the drillings made after shale gas are in a soil layer which is significantly below the drinking water layer. As far as this fracking is concerned, it is something with which we have relatively great experience in Denmark. We have, for example. ed approx. 130 of these fracking explosions in Denmark, so the pollution risks, as I said in my speech, are relatively small, given that there are, of course, always risks in extracting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205853	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205856	Now it says 9 seconds on the clock, I guess it can't be right. I think it's fast that time passes. Well, I look forward very much to having this conference where we get things together, because that is what several of the rapporteurs are looking for, namely that we have to pick something up. Well, then, let's pick up the individual borehole in North Jutland and pick up on what is of foreign experience. And then I very much hope that we will get into a process where you can see what is most risky: having solar cells and wind turbines and geothermals and some large solar collectors for our district heating system, or to bet on fracking on shale gas. And that is where I hope the rapporteur is open to looking at things with the glasses of the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205937	Like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I would very much like to discuss this in depth, even after both consultations and what else we can do, and then, on a more enlightened basis, take this discussion again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217205953	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210033	Thank you. There is no test drill after shale gas in Denmark right now, and this is because the French energy company Total has made a temporary stop for test drillings. After drilling in Dybvad up in North Jutland, they have taken up the drill, and they are in the process of finding out what to do, where to drill, whether to drill elsewhere. It has been blown up in the media as if no shale gas drilling or fracking is coming in Denmark, so there are actually a lot of people who think that the problem is now solved and that those who want fracking are annoying. But at least there are many people who have the impression that this is a problem that is no longer interesting. There is nothing that could be more wrong, because even if there is no drilling right now, Total is entitled to find a new place to drill. They can do so until June and possibly longer, depending on whether they can get their licence extended. And if we imagine that Total does not drill on, there is one thing that is quite certain, because I dare promise that the price of oil will rise at some point, and with quite a lot of shale gas lies under Denmark, I wonder if large international companies will again see the Danish shale gas at some point in time. This also means that up in North Jutland the opponents of shale gas are in total readiness, one is still ready, and the moment there comes a plan, an activity, a new place to drill, then one is ready with demonstrations and with protests and what it takes. We are ready to continue the work of making as great popular demonstrations as it took to get nuclear power out of the country, if necessary. It is not only in North Jutland, it is also in the rest of the country. For although Nordjylland has become a test cloth for the shale gas test drilling in Denmark, according to Danish and American geologists, shale gas belts have been estimated in many places in the country • probably also here in the underground under Christiansborg. The estimates I have seen from Danish and American scientists say that especially under Sjælland there are plenty of shale gas. So shale gas is a national problem, that is, the problem that we run the risk of getting hundreds, perhaps thousands of drilling towers in the middle of large drilling fields, where nature is rooted in sizes up to what corresponds to a football field. The problem of possible contamination of groundwater, both if there is a leaking bore pipe or if there is flooding, is also a national one. Possible pollution in relation to the transport and disposal of radioactive waste water is also a national problem. All climate, environmental and natural problems are not North Jutland issues, but national issues, and this also means that it is a national problem that it will be fatal to our development of renewable alternative energy, which we are at the forefront of in Denmark, if we are now to be delayed by a long, polluting shale gas adventure that prevents the need to continue producing wind energy, solar energy, continue with the experiments in wave energy, geothermal and all the promising things that are on the way. So not only will it have natural and climate consequences, we will also be at the end of the bus in order to offer the sustainable global labour market of the future with job-creating Danish renewable energy solutions. I do not believe that we are getting a stop to shale gas today, but I think it is very good that Enhedslisten is once again tabling a resolution on this, is persistent and is making sure that the debate gets under way, not least so that those who follow on TV are further enlightened and can spread the message about what shale gas and fracking will do to this country. I would just like to say that I look forward to continuing the fight against shale gas with those parties which support the motion for a resolution to stop shale gas in Denmark once and for all. The alternative supports the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210545	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Husted, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210551	Far down the road, we probably share the view that shale gas is problematic. But there is one thing that puzzles me: why can we not wait for the hearings and what has been set up in a very short time? Why do you need to profile yourself like this? Why not go into dialogue and find some good solutions together? Because I think it will actually show that it is not possible. But why has the conclusion been reached before the final results have been seen?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210620	Thank you for a good question. Go to Google and googl shale gas, and you will get so endlessly many We do not use direct indictment in the Assembly Hall), sorry! If you go in and google and I know it's a little unscientific problems about shale gas online, you'll see endless amounts of examples from the United States and from other countries where incredibly many things have gone wrong. You want to see European countries, for example. The Netherlands has a small country the size of our country which has chosen to take a timeout while they find out what other countries the size of our country might do. There is then our children's future nature, climate and environmental. So for us it can only be too slow.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210713	Sir. Per Husted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210714	But does the rapporteur not think that exactly the same things will also appear in the statements and what will come in the future? So what the rapporteur is talking about is history. Isn't it important to look at where we are exactly now? Does the rapporteur not have confidence in the system we have, namely that we are looking into things properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210735	Thank you. I think that things are also I am nervous that there will not be an environmental approval that is good enough for the alternative. Many, many of the places in the world where things have gone wrong, there have been environmental approvals. So it is a fundamental opposition to a thing that can so much harm the climate, the environment and nature for our grandchildren. And, as I said, we are ready to act immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210802	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210808	Quite apart from the fact that we in the Social Democratic Party can also be very nervous about some of the risk elements that may be there and I also respect the fact that Mr. Torsten Gejl says that the alternative has I also seen some of the terrible examples of things that have gone wrong in the United States, but there is no one here, and I do not think the alternative imagines that we should have the same approvals as those that have been given in the United States. There is, of course, the fundamental difference that in the United States you own the underground, and you have had a lot of landowners running around drilling in their backyards because there was suddenly money in it. It is, of course, a completely different situation that we have when we in Denmark control and control and approve at national level. I would very much like to take the concern of the Alternative seriously, but we owe it to each other that we also take the discussion so seriously that we do not refer to google searches for an American situation which, in my opinion, cannot be compared.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217210922	It is quite fair to claim that regular googling is not the most scientific thing you can get. No, we are also referring to resolutions from other European countries. We rely on a great many different findings. It is often the case at home in Denmark that, for some reason or other, no matter how many people have investigated it, no matter how well it has been examined, no matter what it has to wait for a study or a study, wait for some commission, have to wait. For us, the general picture is not just the American things you can google yourself up to so well that we are ready to make a crucial stop for shale gas recovery right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211005	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211008	As I said, I respect the fact that you've come to your conclusion. After all, we have also proposed that international experience should also be included in this evaluation, and that is certainly other European experience. So that part of it we can't disagree on. Can I ask the Alternative's rapporteur just to clarify why it is that foreign oil companies' investment in shale gas should make our renewable energy development impossible at home, as the rapporteur said in the rapporteur's speech? 'Cause I'm not sure there's that one-to-one thing. I would very much like to support the rapporteur in that we must continue to develop renewable energy, but then let us focus on it instead of pretending that it will be excluded from the fact that Total chooses to invest in shale gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211050	Well, that's because I'm nervous that at the moment there's so much focus on shale gas, at the moment there's going to be technology for shale gas, the moment we need investment for it, the moment we have to focus so strongly on it, there's going to be something from the economy that we should have used for renewable energy, and something from the necessary focus on renewable energy. The windmills we create are also the ones that give us power. And if that's how we're going to get an abundance of energy, I'm afraid it'll take focus, power and concentration from our expansion of alternative energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211125	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211138	Radical Left is opposed to granting new permits for shale gas drilling and studies in Denmark. We would very much like to support that part of the proposal. Then there is a permit that has been given back when the Left, Conservative and Danish People's Party had power in the 00s. This is the authorisation given to drill in northern Jutland, which is what most rapporteurs have discussed here today. It has been shown that so far nothing has been gained from the drilling; at least many people expect that no shale gas will be found in North Jutland. I think it would be unwise to adopt this motion for a resolution and withdraw that authorisation, because then, from our point of view, there will be a pretty great risk that Total, who has the authorization, will sue the Danish state. That is to say, this already ski-gas adventure may end up being a big bill for taxpayers, and we see no reason for that. It is the case that if you withdraw permits for some of these big companies, the Danish state as such risks losing credibility, even when we need large international companies to build a Femerntunnel or build a large offshore wind farm, and therefore it is basically a good idea to hold onto the permits that have been granted even if we would not have given them if we had had the power at that time. So if we can agree in committee to make some kind of formula for future permits, we would like to support it. I also understand that there are some rapporteurs who read the text of the proposal as if the most important thing is future authorisations, but if you read the comments, you can see that this is also about the existing authorisation. We think it would be a bad idea to withdraw it, because we think it would create some pretty big problems, and it could end up being pretty expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211348	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211354	Thanks for the post. Does the rapporteur think that there is a possibility that this licence can in fact be extended so that the time when Total is finished and the game could possibly be stopped will never come into being? Is the rapporteur sure that there will be a period when no licences have been issued at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211433	This is a technical question which I would recommend to Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl to put on the committee, because the Minister for Climate and Energy can certainly answer that. As far as I remember the case, Total's permission expires at some point in next year or in 2017, and otherwise they will have to seek a new authorisation, and we will be against that. But, as I said, I think that Mr. Torsten Gejl must ask that question in committee so that it is properly answered and answered under the law of ministerial responsibility and not freely after my memory.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211509	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211510	But we are just in danger of the situation that the Radicals are looking for never coming. We may not get into a situation where we can avoid paying compensation. The second is: does the rapporteur really believe that if we buy Total out here, it will cause so much fear of investing in Denmark that large international companies will miss out on profits by trading with Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211542	Yes, I think it will create quite a lot of uncertainty if we start withdrawing permits. Now Mr. Torsten Gejl that we're going to buy Total out, but I think it's gonna be pretty expensive, and I don't believe they're gonna find any shale gas. So I don't think we should start negotiating that bill with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211558	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211618	SF has always opposed the extraction of shale gas in Denmark, and we continue to do so. What was a relatively absurd situation was that a permit was granted under the previous bourgeois government, that is, under the Left and Conservatives, an authorisation was given to extract shale gas in Denmark, where the parties of the Folketing were not informed of it, but had just been told that it was a case of extraction of ordinary gas. And exactly the situation has made there has been a lot of criticism from various parties of the Folketing in relation to the way one has been allowed to extract gas in North Jutland. There should be no doubt that SF thinks it is a bad idea to extract shale gas; we are in favour of a ban on shale gas; and then it is a challenge with the actual permit right now and here. I think that we should work in committee on a joint report in which we can get as many parties as possible in the Folketing to ban shale gas and future permits and not make it possible when Total's current authorisation expires to extend it. I think Enhedslisten has done a fantastic work, and we would like to help further work on this, but I am a little tired, I believe to finish in committee. We would like to contribute to this because we see so many challenges in the use of fracking in Denmark. There is both the question of the use of chemicals in the underground, the question of radioactive waste, and there is the use of, among other things. water from lakes, streams and streams, which we know we are complying with the EU Water Framework Directive, have some requirements to protect. And besides, there are some health aspects to this, which have not been fully elucidated despite a great many questions and answers to the Ministry of Health. So I think it's time we made a decision in principle. There should be no drilling for shale gas in Denmark in the future, and we must invest in renewable energy. It's kind of our strength. It is both cheaper and smarter, so why not use low technologies such as sun and wind instead of spending unbridled financial resources on something that really can turn out not to deliver anything in relation to our energy system, but which in turn will create many environmental and health problems? I'm sorry I was a little tired!
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211856	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think a certain amount of fatigue is spreading, but sir... Per Husted, the Socialists, has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211902	I shall try to be brief so that the rapporteur can come home and rest. The rapporteur is right in saying that it was a disastrous process in connection with the permits for drilling in North Jutland. At the same time, the rapporteur says that we need to find common ground. Then I do not understand why we cannot wait for the hearings and the reports that come, where we get the knowledge there and then decide on it, so that we get the common ground. Because does the rapporteur not agree that creating a division can be said, by having actually drawn the conclusion now, of course, is not conducive to the common ground, as I would call it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217211949	Now I have been asking questions to both the Minister for Climate, the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Health for the last 11⁄2 years and received several answers. In fact, I think I have over 100 pages of answers on environmental problems, health problems and other issues. I have a very great understanding of processes. I'm just worried that this is another thing that's going a little too far. Since we know that the consequences are quite dramatic if we do not have control of the chemicals and if we do not have control of the radioactive waste, and since I know that the Socialists, like the SF, have experienced the great challenge of the location of the radioactive waste that we already have in Denmark, I am sure that we can make a decision in principle in the Folketing in relation to shale gas. I am worried about the tone that is, that now we have to wait and see that it can also be and that we may have to give another authorisation. Because I honestly admit that I do not trust this bourgeois government, and I can be concerned that they will be able to give another permission to Total. I want to prevent that from happening through a resolution in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217212057	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217212113	Thank you. And thank you to Enhedslisten for giving rise to this debate. Conservatives also want to be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. This is necessary if we are to have the hope of meeting the climate agreement we have adopted in Paris, which is to ensure temperature increases of the maximum. 11⁄2-2 degrees at the end of the century. Therefore, we also find it difficult to imagine that shale gas should play a major role in the Danish energy supply in the years to come. It has to be said, however, that there are a few years before we hit 2050. We still have about 35 years, ahr, almost 34 years to run on. We are also well aware that if we are to ensure this less emissions of CO2 we are not, however, in favour of any ban on shale gas. If the gas can replace coal, there is actually a CO2 that I understand the market doesn't look like right now, at least I think I have read it, but I have to admit that I have a little difficulty in making myself an expert on that. But it is also difficult to say what the future offers in relation to market mechanisms and what it will be able to replace. In addition, it is also difficult to know how technology develops, whether technology develops in a way that allows extraction that is less polluting and less environmentally harmful. I have read up on the shale gas prior to the discussion we were going to have this evening, but I have to admit that I actually find it difficult to get the exact CO2 absolutely clear. I think I have read a lot of different answers to it, so in some way there is still a lack of knowledge, at least from my own perspective. So no hot dream that shale gas should play any major role in the Danish energy supply forward-looking. We have a target of 2050, which we stand by completely, but we also recognise that technology can develop and that there is still a long time to 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217212338	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217212403	The Enhedslisten suggests that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure a ban on the exploration and extraction of shale gas in Denmark. We believe that shale gas belongs to the past. After the Paris Summit on Climate Change, it must be clear that climate problems should not be solved by finding more fossil energy in Denmark. The energy settlement from 2012 sets a course for the transition in Denmark to 100 per cent. renewable energy. August 17th this year was a special day. Enhedslisten had asked questions to the new Minister for Climate and Energy, who had just said that he thought that we in Denmark should take as much shale gas as possible out of the underground. We had a greeting meeting with the Minister, and to the Climate and Energy Committee, which was scheduled for inspection at the test drills in North Jutland, there was shortly after a clear programme. Everything was arranged: even information about titles and shoe size. It was just planned everything, and then came the announcement that Total had given up drilling; the test drilling would stop, and the drilling had to be sealed because there had not been enough gas found. It was a very special day; a happy day and a kind of part victory over the shale gas in Denmark. The drill tower has now been tampered with, and we await the feedback on what they have found in the underground. We believe that the fight against shale gas extraction only stops in Denmark when the Folketing decides to stop all future exploration and extraction of shale gas in Denmark. The basic political debate on the use of shale gas has never been taken. You could say that we have a bit of it today. However, it would have been best if that debate had been taken before the permit for the exploration and extraction of shale gas in North Jutland and North Zealand was granted in 2010. But it was given by the then energy minister Lykke Friis, and to the political level to be informed it was informed that it was hydrocarbon extraction. There wasn't a single word that said it was shale gas or fracking in the underground. What we have then experienced afterwards is that Total has dropped searching for shale gas in North Zealand, and then the permit cannot be transferred to other companies. It can be said that clean drinking water is safe in North Zealand. North Jutland remains, and Total has the right to investigate until 2016. I am well aware that our motion for a resolution can be read at two points when you read the very last remarks, but the motion for a resolution states that the government is required to set out guidelines. So the motion for a resolution can easily be modelled on the fact that it only concerns future exploration and recovery if that is what a majority in the Danish Parliament attaches importance to. Greenpeace has been active in these processes and among others. sent some calls to city councils in Denmark, where there might be shale gas in the underground, and I very much hope that there are several city councils in Denmark that will seriously relate to shale gas and make decisions that you will not have extraction in their own municipality. I think it is a little special to see that the Minister for Energy and Climate has taken a stand on whether municipalities should have a right of consultation or a right of veto when working with coastal mills, and that is not the position taken by the Minister when it is a matter of considering that municipalities should also have a significant influence on the granting of permits for the extraction of shale gas in Denmark. The long-term energy agreement in Denmark sets this transition to 100 per cent. renewable energy up to 2050. We have plenty of opportunities to ensure that the energy supply in Denmark is based on sun, wind, geothermal and a little biomass and perhaps also a little wave power in the future. We do not need the extraction of shale gas in Denmark. The recovery of new fossil energy sources must be prevented. It is therefore a thing of the past after the Paris Summit. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the citizens who have worked hard to inform and protest the shale gas drilling and to share in informing about all the environmental dangers involved in processes and equipment that pump various toxins into the underground to extract gas, and at the same time use techniques that trigger small explosions underground. I think a very serious job has been done. I would also like to thank the local politicians in North Jutland who have engaged and spent a lot of time on shale gas cases, who have taken care of local political interests, who have defended the right to clean local drinking water and environmental interests, and who have defended the citizens of the municipality. Last time Enhedslisten put forward proposals on shale gas stops, it received very little support in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I would like to welcome today the fact that the alternative rapporteur has supported our proposal and pointed out that this is a national problem. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Radicals, who has indicated that if it is only about future permits, then the Radicals can see themselves in the proposal, and I would also like to thank the SF for their commitment to work for a joint report in which it could be said that these are only future extractions. Then I look forward to having this hearing, which will involve foreign experience. For then it must be quite clear that with the European experience, it must be very easy to say no to shale gas drilling in Denmark, where we would like to take care of some groundwater interests where we can see that we have the opportunity to expand with other energy sources up to 100%. conversion to renewable energy, so it will be good to get the doubters reversed, so that there can be a majority against shale gas in Denmark. These are other solutions that we need to focus on. I think it will be nice to be able to reach that decision and devote all our energies to the fact that it is conversion to renewable energy, it is energy savings that we have to invest in, and then conclude that shale gas is a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213039	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Husted, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213044	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report here, and I can confirm that the debate that preceded the authorisation of boreholes in North Jutland at the time was under all criticism. There was no satisfactory debate, and we must learn from that. But I would just like to ask the same question that I asked earlier: why can we not wait until we have had those hearings and then have a proper, serious, good debate between all parties and then, hopefully, find common ground? It works best in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213124	So, from listening to today's debate, from what I have heard that the Left and the Danish People's Party have expressed in the Chamber, I find it rather difficult to see that we come to a whole common ground. I have listened to the fact that the Social Democrats' rapporteur and spokesperson in this debate wanted a little more research to be carried out and a little more experience to be gathered together, and then we will have to conclude at a later stage. It can be at different speeds that parties make decisions and respect about it. So I look forward, of course, to a day when there are so many documents that people should not just be left to google on information themselves, and that social democracy can also come to the conclusion that shale gas in Denmark is a really bad idea. So I look forward to getting there. Then it is also my experience that sometimes you have to have a debate several times before you win. That is why I think it is good that we have had the debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213226	Sir. Per Husted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213228	It is always good to have a debate and an exchange of views, but sometimes it can block future cooperation if a prior conclusion has been reached. I sense that Enhedslisten has already done so. I was so pleased that the rapporteur said earlier today that there were indications that it could not be done environmentally soundly, while one of the rapporteur's party comrades actually drew a conclusion that it is dangerous. That is where I would like to ask the rapporteur: are these the indications we are counting on, or are they the conclusions that have already been drawn from?
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213313	It has to be said that when we are dealing with shale gas, there are a large number of risk elements. So we're not just dealing with a case where there's one risk element. There are several things that can go wrong because you use different chemicals that you pump into the underground, and it is certainly pumped very far down, but on the way down to the area where you want to get the chemicals down, they just have to pass some groundwater, and when you have to pull the chemicals up again, it has to pass the groundwater again. And then you have to blow up the subway. I would not just conclude that because things have gone wrong in different parts of Europe, it also goes wrong in all parts of Denmark, where you have a different subsoil several kilometres down. I think it would be too irresponsible just to say that because things have gone wrong in different places in the Netherlands, it will also go wrong in Denmark. Then it is quite possible that you could find that there are some places where the risk is lower than elsewhere, but I am on the side of the environment. I have to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213406	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151217213423	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 18 December 2015, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
