ParlaMint-DK_20151022100021	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen): Motion for a resolution No. B 16 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ratification by Denmark of the Agreement establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151022100052	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022100112	Michael Aastrup Jensen (V) and Anni Matthiesen (V) have applied for leave from 22 October 2015 due to temporary deployment in public office. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022100144	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Fatma Öktem, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 22 October 2015 on the occasion of Michael Aastrup Jensen's leave and that the First Deputy of the Left in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Hans Christian Thoning, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 22 October 2015 on the occasion of Anni Matthiesen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022100223	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The Committee's recommendation has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022100255	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022100318	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022100354	The debate is open. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022100500	Thank you, President. My most important message today must be: Social democracy is ready to enter into constructive negotiations with the government on the Finance Act for 2016. We are facing a Finance Act which represents a crucial choice for Denmark. After our economy is out of the most extensive crisis since the 1930s, we now have the opportunity to ensure that the whole of Denmark feels the recovery. However, this requires that the Left choose broad cooperation rather than easy solutions in one direction or another, such as: irresponsible tax cuts or excessive public spending without any link between revenue and expenditure. The priorities of social democracy are clear: we want a financial law that ensures two things: better core welfare and more jobs. Firstly, it is crucial for social democracy that core welfare is lifted. Quality needs to be strengthened. All our elders must experience an old age with respect, care and dignity. This requires that we give priority to better care for the elderly in the Finance Act, so there is time for a talk, a walk in the fresh air and a safe environment for our demente and their relatives. Several have to survive a cancer diagnosis, and the million Danes who suffer from chronic diseases such as arthritis, diabetes or may have a bad heart must have several good years of life. Their disease must be detected earlier and treated better. Psychiatric diseases must be treated in the same way as physical diseases. It requires more hands, less use of force and shorter waiting lists. The 2016 Finance Act will ensure this. Our kindergartens and crèches must be better than today. The children must thrive, learn and evolve. They must be safe and therefore more educational staff must be employed in the day institutions. Secondly, we must take advantage of the recovery. Denmark is once again facing a modest recovery. It must be felt throughout Denmark, and therefore the Social Democracy will have an ambitious growth package in the Finance Act, where we create more private jobs and make it easier to operate. Smaller companies must be able to borrow money when a good idea arises and needs to be realized. Today, too many get a "no', even though their business is healthy and potentially large. Better access to capital is essential for growth and development, including in rural areas. For the Social Democratic Party, it is at last crucial that the unemployed get the skills to be able to reach the new jobs that are being created. Therefore, we will invest in the upgrading and further training of unskilled and skilled workers and ensure proper conditions in our labour market. The priorities of the Left are unlike our unambitious, both in terms of welfare and the objective of creating more jobs. The Left's growth initiatives provide very few jobs, but, on the other hand, large tax cuts to very few company heirs. The green ambitions have completely disappeared and it costs jobs. On top of that, the Left will cut into the core welfare of the elderly and the smallest children. It speaks for itself. Social democracy is the guarantor of a responsible economic policy. There must be a link between revenue and expenditure, and we therefore point to three main sources of funding. Firstly, we see no reason to reopen a tax gap, just as we want to cancel the government's inefficient housing job scheme, which costs the Treasury barely 2 million. kr. per job. That money can be better spent. Furthermore, as is customary in financial law negotiations, we want to make our mark on the implementation of the reserves in the draft budget. This applies, among other things, to: the government's negotiating reserve and the pool of government initiatives. In addition, we also want to discuss the implementation of the scope for investment in nuclear safety in the coming years. In this respect, I note that the government has adjusted the estimate upwards for the scope of the coming years. The upward adjustment from 0.6%. to 0.7 per cent. in 2017 and onwards, you will find in the draft budget. According to the Minister for Finance himself, there is more money, not less money, in the years to come, even though the Minister for Finance, I admit, has worked hard in the public debate to create a completely different picture. We are prepared to enter into constructive and responsible negotiations on the Finance Act. There is a need for a robust financial law that makes Denmark stronger. We can deliver that. The Left therefore has a clear choice. Dear Government: You can choose a path where the lack of responsibility of the Danish People's Party is to be reconciled with the attack by the Liberal Alliance on our welfare society. The result will be lost opportunities for Denmark, and it will lead to uncertainty about the political direction if the financial agreements are concluded by such a narrow majority as the parliamentary basis of the government. Instead, you can choose a different path where the development of our welfare is strengthened and where we maintain with financial responsibility a broad cooperation in the Folketing. This will benefit both companies and citizens. The government has to make that choice, but if I have to say so myself, then the choice should be straightforward. Because if we look at the largest bourgeois party in the Folketing, we see that their schooners have run into high seas. The chairman of the Danish People's Party has had to crawl under deck in a storm of annexes. However, one thing is clear in that storm: now that there is little doubt about Feld and Feld, it is certainly not possible to use the EU funds in the financial law negotiations. Then there is the promise of the 0.8% growth in the public sector. As you know, it was a promise that was so central that the Danish People's Party did not believe that they could participate in an intergovernmental cooperation. But uh, split my bramsails, if not the Danish People's Party has chosen to throw exactly that promise overboard. Even before the negotiations on the Finance Act, the Danish People's Party's great influence outside the government has thus manifested itself in accepting a public growth rate of 0.3 per cent. The difference is basically just the salary of small 6,000 home helpers. With a seasick party chairman of the Danish People's Party, Danish financial policy is left to the liberal outside wing of the Danish Parliament. I think even the 49 mayors of the Left will be upset about that. At any rate, I understand that they do not want to see their signature for the election campaign changed to a minus growth on the Finance Act, but it is precisely the minus growth in the municipalities that the government has now proposed. My impression is also that the United Left's billions of savings in public transport and business development in the province are hardly going down in even good Left Muld. Nor does it sound that the government's green harvesting of vocational schools will at a time when we need more skilled workers. This will also mean the closure of important training places in rural areas. I am also sure that the electorate of the Left will fully support the creation of more private jobs than the 500 jobs that the government's Finance Act can create overall. I think they can see the idea of securing funding for our many small and medium-sized enterprises that lack capital rather than reopening a tax gap as the government wants. Social democracy raises its hand. We offer the Left a broad cooperation that promotes sensible, stable and responsible solutions. The alternative is that the common crowd between the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party is making the difference. It will not be good for Denmark. We recognise that we will have to make compromises in order to reach a financial agreement, but, as you know, that recognition goes both ways. Therefore, in order to demonstrate our willingness to negotiate, we have not made the ultimate demands in advance of the negotiations either. This reflects our draft budget. The bottom line in the calculation for Denmark is simple. The best result will be achieved if the Left chooses broad cooperation on the 2016 Finance Act rather than unambitious block policy. That must be my call today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101501	Thank you. Direct charges were used a few times, and this is not done according to the Rules of Procedure. Then there are some brief comments. It's first, sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101518	Thank you. The sound is very bad...
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101525	Wait a minute. We may need to adjust the sound. I have actually had a few comments about the sound being very bad. Is it better now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101539	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the rapporteur. This is quite interesting when you talk about public growth, which is probably going to fill something today. It also filled something in the election campaign. What I really want to ask the rapporteur is: when you sat in government, you made an economic statement in December 2014, and the Social Democratic led government budgeted for zero growth in 2016. This was partly because there was a very high level of expenditure, among other things. integration and asylum, which under the previous government increased by 6 billion. kr. annual. Now you stand and say that you want a great increase in public sector growth. We welcome that as a matter of fact. We in the Danish People's Party would also like to see growth in the core welfare areas. But can the rapporteur not talk about how to finance it? We do not want to vote in favour of the proposals which, among other things, are: introduce take-off assistance and other services. How does social democracy finance its policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101633	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101634	I note soberly that from 2017 onwards, according to the financial bill, there is indeed room for real growth of 0.7 per cent. and not only 0.6%. In other words, there is a slightly greater real growth than there was in our economic statement. This follows, of course, from the last check-up that has been carried out, not what the government carried out immediately after it took office, but the new check-up which has been made in connection with the Finance Act and the Finance Bill. And, as you know, it is also clear from Budgetary Table 3 that there is in fact more room for manoeuvre in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101712	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101716	Well, that's absolutely correct. What's interesting is what you want to use the room for. Now we can hear from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament that this will be applied to the children and the elderly. That sounds very good; it also sounds good in the ears of the Danish People's Party. At the same time, however, we do not want to add votes to the austerity measures that are in place, among other things. the area of asylum. This means that we will continue with the high expenditure pressure of 6 billion. kr. annual. If we do not vote in favour of the austerity measures, it is because we want to bear the costs. Then we just ask calmly: when you want to do both things we are happy that you want to do something in the social field, but you want something in the area of asylum too, how do you finance it? It is also said that you do not want the craftsman's allowance. Nor was it included in the Social Democrats' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101757	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101759	It is quite true that the money can be spent much wiser on something other than the craftsman's allowance, namely on something that creates more growth and more employment. We think that would be sensible. However, it is also clear that part of the budget negotiations are going on at the level of the Minister for Integration. And it is clear that we are, of course, going openly into the negotiations where it can be done. I understand that new negotiations have been convened in the Ministry tomorrow. We'll have to take that with us. As I said, we are willing to negotiate on this and have not put forward any ultimate demands in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101831	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101834	Thank you. The sound must have been bad, or it was distorted, because I heard the rapporteur talking about the government choosing the easy solution. I do not think it is an easy solution to have to present a financial bill with the economy that is available. It was, after all, a different economy from that which was claimed to be present. We are then trying to make things work together, but it is not an easy task; it is not an easy solution. So I think there must have been a sound disturbance along the way from the rapporteur down here to my place. The rapporteur then says in his speech and thanks for it, moreover, that he raises his hand to the Left. And, of course, we are glad that people are raising their hands towards us, but the question is, of course, what is in the hand. What is it that lies in the hand that is being stretched forward? That is why I just want to ask: when are the Socialists going to present their well-defined financial legislative proposals to which we can relate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101926	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022101927	If sir... Jacob Jensen sincerely believes that it is a problem for the Social Democrats to come to the negotiations with the desire not to make ultimate demands, but with the desire to enter into the negotiations. Jacob Jensen emphasizes on several occasions that this is something that is appreciated, but which one would also like to see proved that the Social Democrats actually did so it is a little strange when we then come up with a proposal and with wishes that are not closed, to have to stand here and hear that it should be a problem. It sounds more like we're reaching out an open hand with the desire to accept the Left and meet a fist the other way. It's a weird way to react.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102009	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102011	No, I have no intention of fist-fisting, absolutely not, because we are a minority government, and we must of course find the majority who are present. But I just wanted to know if there wasn't a financial bill coming up. So, I know that such a medium-term chronicle, or whatever you might call it, has been circulated with intentions that are well-intentioned and positive far along the way, but the only thing I can see in such a way of priorities or other things is that it is usually what lies in a draft budget. These are the only numbers in this. And I do not know whether that is what you refer to when you talk about a budget bill. But perhaps the rapporteur can confirm that it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102050	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102051	As I said, we have made a financial bill which is about being able to enter into a financial bill negotiation with the government. Apparently, it's not something to the left. I think that's a little too bad. But I have to remind you of that, because I think that is essential, and I did not get the answer at first, that it is actually the case that there are some other figures on the table today than there were when we were in government. That is absolutely correct. The growth estimate, what is real growth from 2017 onwards, is not 0.6 as it was in our reign, but it is 0.7. This means that, overall, in the years to come, there will be more, and not less, money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102129	Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102133	Thank you. One of the things that will be discussed in connection with this Finance Act is, of course, the unemployment benefit system and the fact that we have an unemployment benefit system that does not work. And the Socialists voted against it when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl suggested that the Left significantly reduce the benefit system. At the time, the Socialists said that it was unreasonable that 2 000 to 4 000 would fall out a year. It turned out to be far worse than that. Well, far more fell out of the benefit system. Now the benefit commission has put forward a proposal for a benefit system where 6,700 people are expected to fall out annually. And that is what is called a normal economic situation. We are obviously not in such a situation now, which means that in such a situation as the one we are in now, with the unemployment rate, it will at least be 10 000 people who are expected to fall out of the benefit system per year, that is to say, considerably more than when the Socialists said: no, it is unsustainable. My question is: can the Socialists accept a permanent benefit scheme, where so many thousands of people lose their right to benefit, fall out of the system?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102247	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102248	Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen and I cannot disagree on the fact that it was an inappropriate benefit system, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the then government carried out. There is no doubt about that. That is why we must also have a different and better benefit system. It is clear that we are starting from the work of the benefit commission, but it is also obvious that, despite the fact that the benefit commission has done an excellent job, there may be a need for a little more funding for it, and that is what we are going to have to negotiate on, hopefully, and find a solution soon, so that we can have a better benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102326	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102328	I have heard the Socialists say that there is a need for additional funds, and that is, of course, very sensible. I think it is so obvious that one cannot patch up such a huge gap or solve a problem created by billions of cuts without adding some money. But what I am asking is whether the Socialists can accept a permanent benefit system which says from the outset that it is expected that 6,700 will fall out a year and probably many more, because it is only in the so-called normal economic situation that it is 6,700. Is that acceptable? In addition, there have been proposals for a so-called mouse trap clause. In other words, if it turns out to be even more and we have seen examples in the past that it has been a little difficult to calculate, then you are committed to changing the system. Do you back it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102418	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102420	When we enter a negotiating room, it is, of course, without other ultimate requirements than that we have to create a better benefit system and that we also have to find the money needed to make it stick together. That is why I am not going to deal with specific negotiations which will run smoothly and which, moreover, are not necessarily part of the financial agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102442	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102446	Prior to the last elections and in the election campaign, the Liberal Alliance presented an economic plan that meant that all parts of the public sector had to be made more efficient on average for 1%. a year. When we did this, the Socialists were very, very strongly opposed to it. They said that it was something terrible and that it could never be done without all sorts of nuclear welfare. Now the new government has presented it as the government's policy: agreed with the municipalities, agreed with the regions, set for the state itself that the municipalities should streamline for 1%, the state 2%. and the regions are also 2%. I'm just gonna let them keep the money. And that's part of this finance bill. We are then told that the Socialist rapporteur says that the Socialists are very open to reaching an agreement on this financial law, which is based on the efficiency policy that was very opposed to when the Liberal Alliance presented it. Why is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102548	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102549	I don't know if sir. Ole Birk Olesen has not heard my rapporteur's speech, but, as you know, what we will be going into the negotiating rooms with, if we are invited, of course, is a desire to strengthen welfare, including close welfare. And that is why it is also clear that, if so, it is a question of some of the funds being recycled in the area of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102613	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102614	However, in any case, whether the funds released are to be used for new welfare elsewhere, whether they are used to lighten taxes or what they may be used for. The efficiency is there. It is written down in the agreement between the government and the municipalities. It is written down in the Finance Act of the State. It is written down in an agreement with the regions. The efficiency of at least 1%. That's it. And I can now understand what Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, that the Social Democrats are quite willing to achieve that efficiency if only the Social Democrats can help determine how the money is to be spent afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102648	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102649	In other words, out in the real world, I understand that there are not so few municipalities that are almost planning to save them, including finance negotiations. in the area of the elderly. So the efficiency of cuts is hoped for in the context of the financial law negotiations, and we shall have to see that. This is quite a lottery for the municipalities concerned to implement. In any case, this is not a significant increase in efficiency, but real cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102717	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102722	Thank you. It is not that long ago that the Social Democrats were in government, and when the Social Democrats were in government, the Social Democrats repeatedly called for the Liberals' financial law to be put out for debate. And the Left came up with a financial act. We came up with a financial bill play... that's the state budget... and that's where we presented what we wanted and what they cost and how they were to be financed. The Socialists demanded this of us. And I also think it is quite right that we should ask each other what the priorities are and how they are economically linked. So my question to the rapporteur for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is therefore: how can it be that the Socialists do not meet the demands of the Socialists themselves to the largest opposition party when they were themselves in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102809	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102810	I have answered it once, and I am happy to answer it again: we have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102815	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102817	In other words, do the Socialists believe that it is responsible to make a budget without assessing how much is being proposed and how it should be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102826	I believe that it is absolutely real to come forward for negotiations with the government and to show what it is that you want and what it is that you want to finance it and that is exactly what is included in our draft budget. I think Mrs Louise Schack Elholm knows that too, but that is probably not what Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's questionnaire says.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102849	Thank you. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen, who was skipped a little earlier, but the system's a little crazy up here. We're trying to make it right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102856	It's okay. Social democracy is, of course, Denmark's largest party, but I wonder a little where the Danes are in the Social Democratic Finance Bill, for example. the 6 out of 10 Danes living in their own homes. It may be Steen and Hanne Lorenzen, who live in Vanløse in a bungalow of 100 m2 overlooking a floor building behind which pays 46,000 kroner in property taxes per year and has the prospect of rising property taxes, and who sits with a stomach ache and wonders if they can stay in their homes. Where is social democracy in relation to homeowners?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022102933	It's almost a shame that Mr. Simpson... Brian Mikkelsen was skipped because I was waiting for a question about the reason, which we well know is the absolutely most important issue for the Conservatives in this context. I also believe that Mr. Brian Mikkelsen is aware that the Social Democracy prefers to prioritise better welfare for the elderly, better efforts in kindergartens, better efforts in relation to our demented and all the other elements that I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. But I don't think sir... Brian Mikkelsen is in doubt at heart that we are there for the Danes and not for the relatively few who may have some challenges in relation to the guilt. We recognise that there are challenges in relation to the root cause of the calculations, but we must also remember that pensioners in particular have the possibility of freezing their basic debt payments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103035	Thank you. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103036	I do not believe that the Socialist voters who live outside the rapporteur's own constituency in South Jutland agree with him. Let us take the voters who are in Copenhagen, Ballerup, in Albertslund and Rødovre. It is the voters who pay the most in property taxes in relation to their income. I grew up in Ballerup myself. It is not such a prosperous city as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht suggests here, but it is the city that pays the second most in real estate taxes that is approx. 5% of the family's income. And the families are out there, playing with the kids out in the garden, having kids at school, sitting with a stomach ache. Can they really afford to stay in their residence in Ballerup, Albertslund, Rødovre and Copenhagen when property taxes rise year after year?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103123	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103124	Well, it's really good that sir. Brian Mikkelsen cares so much about the landowners in this area. I should also like to remind you that there are other areas which are also pressing. I believe that for the citizens of Ballerup, Albertslund and Rødovre, it will also matter if they receive less welfare, lower schools, poorer care for the elderly, etc., and that will be the consequences if we give priority to tax relief to houseowners rather than giving priority to close welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103155	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103159	Thank you. After all, the draft Finance Act is not the only legislative proposal we are discussing today in this debate, because we are also discussing two other legislative proposals that have far-reaching implications for our society and for our welfare, and it is the two so-called 'cost ceilings' that set the framework for municipal welfare, among other things. in the future, and it is quite frightening what the government is proposing here. They want Parliament to vote to force the municipalities to cut 2.4 billion. kr. a year • 2,4 new billion kroner a year after • so that the municipalities, when we reach 2019, have 7 billion euros. kr. less a year to do well, and it is therefore at a time when we know that there will be more elderly people who will need help. That probably corresponds to such a blow on the bag that somewhere between 15.00-00.000 low-paid municipal employees have to be dismissed if this is carried out, and we also see that a large majority of the municipalities, including the municipalities with the Left Mayors, are really yelling at this. The Social Democrats went to the polls against zero growth, and this proposal is, after all, a proposal for outright minus growth in the municipalities. That is why, of course, I would just like to confirm that the Socialists cannot support the two proposals, i.e. L 2 and L 3, which means a reduction of 7 billion. kr. in the welfare of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103315	Thank you for that, and I would just like to say that we do not address each other directly, including the President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103319	Of course, we respect that, President. It is, of course, a perfectly correct analysis, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted says that what is now in sight is a real minus growth in the municipalities. It is also clear that, regardless of whether we are talking about legislative proposals L 1 or L 2 and 3 which we co-examine here, there needs to be a process of negotiation, and that is why I would like to stress that we are not in favour of minus growth in the municipalities. However, it is also clear that we are primarily interested in influencing the financial law negotiations that exist, and thus also ensuring that more money is provided for welfare, not only in the 2016 Finance Act, but also in the estimates, where, as you know, there is real growth, which is slightly larger than what we really expected. And it is also clear from the draft budget that it has increased from 0.6 to 0.7.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103425	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103426	I was glad to hear that we were opposed to this, but it was rather unclear to me whether we would reply that these proposals would not be supported. So I would really like to ask quite simply: if the Socialists do not enter into a financial law agreement, i.e. that the financial law agreement be concluded with other parties, then the Socialists will vote no or table amendments to these two legislative proposals, which means that the municipalities will not have to hand over 7 billion. kr. A year? As the rapporteur knows, if the money is taken, then the municipalities are going to cut, and that is what they are telling them themselves. And then it may be that you come back if you are lucky enough to make finance law next year, and can bring back some money, but the damage has been done. So it is important for me that the rapporteur makes it clear how the Socialists feel about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103515	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103516	Our intention is clear: we want to be involved in the financial law negotiations. We would like to help influence the fact that there will be more funds for welfare, not only in 2016, but also the years after that. We are not in favour of negative growth, but I would also like to be quite clear about the fact that we want to be involved in a debate on finance law, and that is why I do not want to put up barriers in advance as saying: what if not one or the other? First of all, we will be involved in the budget negotiations, and then, if we do not come along, we will decide on how we are going to proceed, including what types of amendments we are going to table for both L 1, L 2 and L 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103556	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103557	I would like to follow up a little on the re-priority contribution. If there is going to be a financial law that will contain minus growth, also in relation to the years that will be about the re-priority contribution, where there will be a saving of 2.4 billion in the municipalities, is this a financial law for which the Socialists will vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103620	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103621	In the end, then, there will be elements of the Finance Act, of which the Socialists will also be a part. For example: After all, some financial agreements have already been concluded, for example, concerning the phasing-in of electric cars into the general tax system. That is why it will be clear that the final Finance Act will, of course, be part of the Socialist Group, but we must then decide whether or not we are in negotiations. First of all, we want to be part of the big financial law agreement. I do not think I have concealed that in any way from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103657	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103659	But if L 2 and L 3 on the re-prioritisation contribution in the municipalities are adopted, will the Social Democrats be included in an overall financial agreement, which will then mean minus growth in the municipalities? That is a question, should it be relatively easy to answer yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103717	Thank you. Benny Engelbrecht We would like to...). The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103719	I'm sorry, President, that I answered earlier, I'm sorry. We want to be part of the financial law negotiations. That is our priority. I must also be quite clear and say that we do not want to make it too simple for the government to throw ourselves out of the finance bill negotiating room in advance. First of all, we need to be invited.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103742	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103744	Thank you. I listened with interest to the rapporteur's speech. There was not much about one of the major challenges we have at the moment, namely the great migratory flow that is coming up through Europe and which, of course, currently means that Sweden, which has been very receptive to receiving a great many asylum seekers and migrants, is now considering the introduction of border controls. I'd like to hear Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, in that in Sweden you can see that in Denmark too, it is a huge challenge for the state finances that you accept so many asylum seekers, whether the Socialists agree with, when we talk about finance law, that Denmark should introduce a border control, as has been done in Germany, and inform Schengen that because of this completely incalculable situation we currently have, we want border controls and passport controls on the Danish-German border.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103847	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103848	In the matter of the Finance Act, it is quite clear that I think that should also have been shown on several occasions ■ that the Social Democratic Party believes it would be sensible for the Folketing and the government to reach a broad agreement in the area of integration. That would be appropriate, and that is why, of course, we also intend to come up for all negotiations, including negotiations in the area in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103913	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103915	That sounds good, but that's not what I asked. What I was asking was whether the Socialists, in the light of this very large migratory flow that is coming up through Europe, and which means that Sweden is now probably going to have to close the border and introduce border controls, will help to tell the government in the negotiations we are going to have about the Finance Act that now it is necessary for us to have border controls on the Danish-German border to ensure that we are not flooded by the very large migrant and asylum-seekers flow, which will also come to Denmark and which is coming to Denmark at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103952	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022103953	I must therefore remind the rapporteur that I actually answered the question put by the rapporteur, which is, after all, about the Finance Act. A question of whether or not the Scheng rules will be used in a situation as Germany has done and, as is envisaged in Sweden, is, if so, a task of authority and not a task of financial law negotiation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104016	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104019	Thank you. Can the rapporteur explain how many private jobs the Social Democracy has ambitions to create, according to your plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104029	I just wanted to say that you don't need a direct indictment. I know it's new and so on, but I'm just saying it. Marcus Knuth Sorry). Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104041	Thank you and thank you for your question. Marcus Knuth. It's quite simple to answer. If you do not give any relief in the inheritance tax to some particularly wealthy families, if you do not spend money on a housing job scheme where a job costs about 2 million, but spend it on something else, then we will be able to create more jobs than the government's financial bill proposes. It's pretty simple. But it is also clear that we want first of all to enter the negotiating room with the government, with the Left, and to achieve better results. And the two priorities we have are more welfare, more core welfare, and that is more jobs. I don't know if sir. Marcus Knuth disagrees that there should be more jobs, and I do not know whether Mr. Marcus Knuth disagrees with the need for better welfare, but I certainly hope not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104145	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104146	I agree that we need better welfare and more private jobs, but my question was how many ambition is to create.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104156	The ambition is to create more than the government's draft Finance Bill. And that's what I'm sorry to have to say here... relatively easy to have that ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104207	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104209	Thank you. Since the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs came into force, the media have, after all, brought countless examples of seriously ill citizens being forced into work tests, resource cycles and flexible jobs of a few minutes' duration. This is very often done in opposition to the statements made by specialists that the citizen is probably only more ill by it. I think we all, as parliamentary politicians, receive requests from these citizens. I certainly receive an incredible number of people describing how unhappy they are and how insecure they are about their situation, not least because of their economy. My question is, of course, to the rapporteur: what do the rapporteur and his colleagues in the Social Democratic Party respond to these people? Are you saying that this is the case and that it is a fine law that has been made that works as intended?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104311	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104312	It is clear, then, that there is an ongoing need to look at the laws which are being implemented in the Folketing. I must also say that this is not, of course, an issue which concerns the budget law and the allocation of resources, but can be about how to implement a given legislation in practice. With all due respect, sir. I think that Finn Sørensen's question would be most appropriate to discuss it in the forum of the Employment Committee and in relation to the respective minister and our respective rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104350	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104351	From the perspective of Enhedslisten, this issue is very much about the Finance Act. That is why we have put forward proposals for social recovery in the context of the reform that I am referring to, which brings many people into an unhappy situation. We have put forward a concrete proposal for this. So it's about the Finance Act. And then I would like to know what the rapporteur responds to those people when they sign in. The rapporteur answers that this is just the way it is; that the law is the way it is and that it is a fine law. I would ask the rapporteur to take a look at the fact that in the vast majority of cases the Ankestyrelsen approves these measures, even against the attitude of the municipal rehabilitation system that the citizen should actually have an early retirement pension. I guess it's the law that's wrong with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104437	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104438	Now I'm getting a little confused, sir. Finn Sørensen. First, Mr. Finn Sørensen says it's a matter of resources, and then Mr. Finn Sørensen, it's because there's something wrong with the law. I shall not be able to deny that it can be both. However, if there is something wrong with the legislation in this area, it must be addressed in the legal field. So I would like to refer it to our labour market rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104508	Thank you. And that was the last one in the line of questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022104526	Thank you, President. Then we are here to debate the Finance Act 2016 and these are some negotiations that the Danish People's Party is looking forward to. Surely we can also welcome the fact that the Social Democrats have come out of the corner where they did not really want to negotiate, and now they say that they are actively entering into the negotiations on the Finance Act for 2016. The Danish People's Party has three such larger blocks in relation to the negotiations that we are going to have, and I will deal with them a little bit. The first is the area of the elderly: when we look at demographic developments in Denmark, and that is how the population composition is, it is very clear that we are getting older. We are delighted in the Danish People's Party that we live longer. We also welcome the fact that we live longer with the disadvantages we have, and therefore there is a need for a boost in the municipalities in the care of the elderly. That is why we would like there to be an elderly billion, a genuine elderly billion. And why do we call it a real older billionaire? We do this because it has to follow the demography. It must go where the elderly are and it must be earmarked for the elderly. We were very sorry that the KL negotiated the removal of the older billion. We do not think it has been for the best of the municipalities to have the elderly billion negotiated away, so it went beyond the block. It has just done so that the provincial municipalities in particular now have fewer funds for the elderly, and that is precisely where we can see demographic figures that the elderly live. That is why we would like to see a boost with a genuine elderly billionaire. Unfortunately, in the field of health, which is the second, we have challenges. Unfortunately, we have great challenges with people lying in the halls. Unfortunately, we still have major challenges with the fact that processing times are too long. When citizens get sick, there is one goal, and that is to recover as quickly as possible, both for the sake of the individual's own quality of life, but indeed also the economic aspect of getting back into the labour market. We are pleased that the government has, in this way, also delivered on that agenda. We welcome that. Now, of course, in the context of the financial law negotiations, we must also translate the money that has been set aside in the government's proposal. Then we have a third big package, which we call security. And what does that mean? This means, among other things, that we must have the police area lifted. I think everyone is aware that the police are facing a very, very great challenge. The police are faced with a great many tasks, as the police are doing very well, but we can see that this will be difficult in the future. There is a need for us now to get the wheel going quickly, which means that we will have more officers trained. Unfortunately, training more officers takes a number of years, which is why we need to get started as quickly as possible. Part of the security package is also border controls. Border controls and the demand for this have never been greater than it is now. Now we can see that even countries like Sweden are talking about introducing border controls. That is why it is incredible in relation to the challenges that we face that we have not already introduced border controls in Denmark. However, when we speak of border controls in the Danish People's Party, it is not only in relation to the current situation with the large flows of immigrants coming to Europe. In fact, the Danish People's Party had managed to introduce a border control for a short period of time, unfortunately only for a short period of time in 2011. So did it help to have border controls for three months? Yeah, actually, it did. If you look at the seizure of drugs, you can see that it increased and now you have to listen very carefully to it by 13.743 per cent. The number of drug seizures increased by 13.743 per cent.! Then some people say, "Oh, that can't be right." That's because you got a whole truckload of cat. You shouldn't count on that, it was probably extraordinary. If we take it out, the seizure of drugs in 3 months is over 2,000 per cent. higher than when there was no one at the border. So it should also be remembered that border controls are not just about immigrants. It's also about when you're out at primary school and everyone's outraged that now there are 6th classes being offered hashish, and I don't know what's going on out there. You're very outraged about that. Where could you find it? How could we deal with what our young people are being exposed to? It could be done at the border. That is why, of course, we also go to the police negotiations with a wish that we should have border controls. Of course we do, both in relation to the current situation, but certainly also to the normal situation. I can also inform you that, in the last three months, 293 illegal weapons were seized at the border in three months! Border controls are effective, and that creates security. No doubt about it. What is important when you look at the Finance Act is also how we obtain the funds for the wishes of the Danish People's Party. We are glad that the majority now accounts for the fact that we are also looking at foreign aid and that we are lowering it to 0.7%. We welcome that. We also welcome the fact that we are going to talk about how we then spend the remaining funds, which are still a very, very large and nice amount, even when you look at it internationally. There, as we did in connection with the previous Finance Act under the previous government, we want to help in the neighbourhood, and as a party we had 400 million. kr. to help in the neighbourhoods, precisely in order to withstand the great pressure that Europe is facing. We also hope that more parties have now realised that it is a matter of helping in the neighbourhoods. We are also pleased that a new government, in which the Danish People's Party was a support party, succeeded very quickly in tightening up a few things about the asylum rules. We are very pleased that we quickly tightened up the benefits for new arrivals in Denmark. We are pleased that there has been tightening up so that you do not have the right to full cash benefits, but that you now have the right to a start-up benefit after coming to Denmark as an asylum recipient and having taken up residence. We are very pleased about this and there is no doubt that it has helped to stop the influx to Denmark in these very months. This shows that it was important for us to have a new majority. It should be remembered that expenditure on asylum increased by 6 billion. kr. a year under the former government. Therefore, when we talk about growth in the public sector, there is no doubt that the Social Democrats and Radicals and others would like to see growth in the public sector, but what was the money for? They were to be used in the asylum area for new arrivals in Denmark. The Danish People's Party does not want to give priority to this. We want to give priority to close welfare. It is, of course, a financial law that is not so easy. We fully recognise the cashier's check-ups that have been made. We fully recognise that we must pursue a responsible policy and 2016 is a difficult year in relation to the Finance Act. We also recognise that when you look at the construction side, there are challenges, compared to the fact that we in the Folketing have broadly agreed that you should keep your hand under the employment side, including during the crisis, and therefore have launched a number of public projects, which has also made Denmark well out of the crisis. However, we can see that a few things that have been up in the press and elsewhere that you want to postpone pose major challenges, and we will of course discuss this in the context of the Finance Act. One of the lumps is e.g. a Storstrøm bridge, which it has been necessary to postpone, but which is incredibly important, both for the infrastructure and for the local area, and indeed also because it is a bridge that is in a really bad state, and must large investments be made on something which will have to be demolished in a few years' time? Of course, we also have this in our deliberations on the Finance Act. Otherwise, the Danish People's Party is ready for the negotiations, and we hope that it can be a good financial law, where there will be an opportunity to prioritise among others. the elderly area, health and safety for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105411	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of questioners. The first sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105416	Thank you, President. I have, of course, taken note of a number of the statements that have been made, both before the financial negotiations started and since then, from the Danish People's Party and from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, partly from Mr. René Christensen. In this respect, I would like Mr. René Christensen just explains the wondering public how it can really be that the party is prepared to accept the rather modest real growth planned for 2016, i.e. a growth of 0.3 per cent. However, it is relatively far from the 0.8% that the party has reported quite significantly was quite crucial. I do not think that is entirely in keeping with the rather benevolent statements that have been made to be included in the current Financial Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105517	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105520	That's right. After all, we fully recognise that there is the economy present and there is a potential of 0.3 per cent. in public growth. We still have a goal of • we would like to see growth of 0.8%, and why so? That is because that is what we think is needed. But, of course, we also recognise the state's state of affairs and the money that is available. That is why it will be important to give priority to this. That is why we want us to look precisely at the costs that are also so that we can give priority to the welfare area. That is why we also want to see a genuine elderly billion, and that is why we have also voted in favour of the idea that we should, among other things, do something about it. has gone from being able to receive full cash assistance when you come as an asylum seeker to having a start-up aid. It is in order to shift the money from one expense to another, which precisely strengthens the close well-being.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105607	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105610	I heard the rapporteur say that the Danish People's Party is in favour of growth of 0.8%. But in a recent interview on DR 2 at Clement Kjærsgaard, I believe that the party chairman, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, downgraded that number from 0.8 to 0.7. It sounds a little confusing to me that since then we have changed our position, and at least we are not in harmony with a de facto growth rate of 0.3 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105650	Now it's the first Finance Act and we have a clear expectation that there will also be more • where the Danish People's Party will be allowed to play a role. We are therefore pleased that a government that voted for zero growth and other support parties that have opted for minus growth will come up with a proposal where there is a potential for growth of 0.3 per cent. What is really important for the Danish People's Party is that we give priority to those areas that are important in the near welfare. And that is also where we welcome the fact that the Social Democratic Party says that the area of the elderly is important, because the area of the elderly is therefore, of course, we are fighting to get 1 billion. kr. to that area. And 1 billion. kr. So that's 1,000 million. kr. That's quite a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105731	The next one is sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105735	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to follow up on the lead I mentioned earlier to the Socialists, namely on the other two legislative proposals we are debating today, namely L 2 and L 3, which are, after all, about the framework for the local economy in the future, where the government is proposing to take up 7 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very important one, and I would like to thank him for his excellent work. tax reductions for business and what else the government can find a majority for. So my question to the Danish People's Party is actually very simple. After all, the Danish People's Party was out to make it very clear that it would fight zero growth with all the power it had. So now the government is calling for us to vote now in the Folketing, when we have to deal with these proposals in the second and third readings, to take 7 billion. kr. In the case of the local authorities, they can be used, for example, by the State Treasury. tax reductions for some of the largest companies in Denmark. So my question is really just whether the Danish People's Party can support that bill and how it is related to the statements you have. Of course, I expect the Danish People's Party to confirm that it will not support L 2 and L 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105847	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105850	We recognise that the municipalities have a negotiating mandate, and I would say that the Danish People's Party is a little shaken by the fact that KL chose to use its negotiating mandate to make the agreement that was made with the government. But, of course, we recognize that. The re-prioritisation contribution was part of the communal agreement for 2016, while there is also a re-prioritisation contribution forward-looking. We do not approve of this on the part of the Danish People's Party, and we do so at all.Of course we believe that we should do it better and cheaper in the municipalities, and we do not disagree with the fact that we can move something from one box to another in the municipalities and prioritise our funds, but the fact that the funds are just going to Christiansborg, and that 90 mandates can then find out what they are going to be used for, we have a vertical disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105933	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022105936	Well, I am very pleased about that, and I see it as a clear answer that we cannot support these two legislative proposals, which involve exactly what the rapporteur says, namely taking the money from the municipal coffers and putting into what is called the state sub-ceiling, which is what is also just called the room for manoeuvre. This means that the money can be used, for example. by a majority, possibly without the Danish People's Party, in the spring, when negotiating a tax reform, and they can be used in all kinds of other ways. So it is not certain that if you vote in favour of this law, and I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that, you will have the opportunity to return the money to the municipalities later. By voting for this bill, the money is gone, and that also means, and I hope the rapporteur can confirm that, if this is voted through, the municipalities are already starting to lay off people in municipal welfare, because of course any responsible municipality will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110019	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110022	We fully recognise the system of agreements. When two parties meet and make an agreement, we acknowledge it. Making an agreement on the economy of the municipalities with a government takes place outside the Parliamentary Chamber, and we are astonished that KL chose to use a mandate with 98 municipalities in the back of making an agreement with a government in which there is a re-priority contribution, with this text as it does. But we recognise that the municipalities have made that agreement. What we do then is that we say that the municipalities must also have an economy, we also recognise that, but we do not recognise the content and we will use our energies to redeploy it where we have our mandates, and we do, among other things, have that. in the Finance Act and elsewhere. The text also says, and we are very much aware that the distribution of the room for manoeuvre can be adjusted on a regular basis, among other things. in the context of the annual block grant act of the Finance Committee and the corresponding Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110119	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110123	In fact, I was surprised that rural areas were not mentioned with a single word in the Danish People's Party's rapporteur's speech, because I know this is something that normally takes up a great deal in the Danish People's Party, and it certainly takes up a great deal in the Radical Left. I have been quite amazed to see that, although we have now made a great deal of money out of the forced relocation of 3,900 state jobs into rural areas, as we have been able to read in the press over the last few weeks, the government has, at the same time, set out to cut heavily both in the municipalities, but also in a large number of areas of the green, geothermal, Samsø Energy Academy, etc., so that we reduce jobs, especially private jobs, in rural areas. I was delighted to see that the Danish People's Party, at least in some of the media, would like to help guard rural jobs and hit hard on the Left's attempt to slaughter green jobs in rural areas. I just want the guarantee from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party today that this is something that we can count on from the Danish People's Party, namely that, in terms of the savings made in rural areas both through the re-prioritisation contributions and through the green jobs, we stand shoulder to shoulder.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110239	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110241	Thank you, of course, for the question. There are several challenges in relation to rural areas, which of course are of great concern to the Danish People's Party. What is important is that you do not give with one hand and take with the other hand. Then you do not get the boost that we also have a clear feeling that the government would like to give. Where we also see a challenge, it is particularly in the field of education. If you want to raise the areas in the province and you expect people to move to the province, you also have to have education in the areas. That is why it is very important that the re-prioritisation exercises also in the field of education do not end up in centralising education, because then it is no use moving jobs out, because then it is commuting that is increased and not a settlement that is increased. But we are quite open to the fact that we also have it with us that we must, of course, help to ensure that it becomes a whole package that provides well-functioning rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110330	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110333	I'm glad. Because the re-priority contribution in the field of education is not part of the municipal agreement. And that is clearly one of the focus areas that Radicals also have. So, hopefully, there we can press the Left not to cut back on rural education. But I also think that private jobs are important. The organic housekeepers out there are losing their advice, and the municipalities that want to take the lead and make geothermals to give cheap or even free heat to their citizens have also been cut away. The advice has also been cut away to • and it may be a bit boring to make the heat pumps in district heating, which also provides cheaper heat for rural areas. Isn't this a place where we should start?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110413	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110416	There are a great many things about the green area and, as the rapporteur rightly says, this is not such an exhaustive list of what has been subsidised. There we as a party are looking at what we really think is reasonable to phase out at some point. It is the case with green solutions that at some point they must also be self-supporting and not subsidised anymore. And there we think it's a nice exercise to throw this ball up in the air, and we're also picking it down and looking at where we think you can cut the shots away. Because that's the way it is to get a grant. This is in order to be innovative and to start something up, and in particular in the green area, we must also be aware that it should at some point be self-supporting and then we will phase out the grants. But we are looking at the list and we have also noticed that it is very long.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110500	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110504	Thank you. Behind this whole discussion about welfare wishes and public growth, there is a connection • that is, when you stand up on Parliament's platform and say that you want to do more for the elderly, and we have also had the wish, in addition to the elderly, to increase the budgets for children, hospitals, etc. That's why we're so concerned about how to use this room. That's what Mr. René Christensen's chairman, just on 24 June, and I quote Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: I have said before, during and after the election campaign that when we have put ourselves on the economic policy that we have done, that is, a growth of 0.8 percent, it is because that is what is needed. He said 0.8%, which was the means that could then be spent on welfare. Today, Mr. René Christensen: We are satisfied with 0.3 per cent. It was the choice of words. What has happened in the meantime when we now accept that there is so much less money to do well, for example. to benefit the elderly and the hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110611	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110613	What is important to understand, and that is also what I made clear, is that this is, after all, the first Finance Act for 2016. We hope that there will be more where the Danish People's Party can also play a decisive role. And each time, we will have a desire that we have a well-being that we can be familiar with. It is about the fact that we want a well-being in Denmark and throughout Denmark, an equal Denmark, so that, wherever you live, you have to have dignified care for the elderly. You also have to have a dignified primary school. You also need a dignified day offer, no matter which municipality you live in. There we must recognise that it therefore requires more resources, and that is the fight we are fighting. And that is why we are, of course, pleased that we are moving in our direction. We are not so naive as to think that, as a single party with the mandates we have, we can get it all today, but are happy that we can get growth out of a financial law with a government that went to the polls on zero growth, that is, after all, there is a possibility of less growth. At the same time, of course, we hope that, in addition to what is contained in the proposal, we can help to increase the opportunities in the area of the elderly with this real elderly billion euro and we are fighting very hard for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110717	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110721	I'm sorry it gets a little direct, but I just think it's talk. Sir. René Christensen now stands up and says that it goes in the direction of the Danish People's Party because you can spend some money on welfare. Listen, if there had still been the same government as that, sir. René Christensen has helped to overthrow, so there would have been more commitment to welfare over the coming years than is the case with the government that has now been brought to power. So it is a bit of talk and simply wrong what Mr. René Christensen says. So I still think we need answers on how to be satisfied that there is less money for welfare than what was said before the elections that one would have. Mr. René Christensen is not on at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110806	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110808	After all, the challenge was that the previous government would not use it for welfare. It wasn't for the seniors. Well, they said you wanted to spend something on children, but you hadn't found any money for it. No, where the money was spent and where it had been dropped off was in the field of integration. Expenditure had been raised by 6 billion. kr. a year. The vote has been taken against curbing the flow to Denmark. It is believed that there is a right to housing for those who have resided in Denmark and that they should receive full cash benefits from day one. We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. When we want growth in the public sector, it is because it has to go to the nearest well-being. When social democracy wants public growth, it is because it has to go to the area of integration. Then it starts to become a conversation about numbers, and the numbers are completely indifferent if the money is used incorrectly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110853	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022110906	Thank you very much. In Jyllands-Posten on 24 May 3 days before the election was released, one could read that the leader of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl challenged Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt because she didn't want to spend any more money on the benefit system. The money has to be found, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I quote from the article: "Left will not spend any more money either, but Løkke will do so if it is up to DF's leader, who will improve the system in several areas and at the same time calls it his basic premise that no one can get any worse. ▪ The article continues with a quote from Kristian Thulesen Dahl: "We are going for a system where what we see today is bottomed and where better things are then added upstairs, among other things in the form of more flexible and shorter earnings. If there is to be a calming of the benefit system, it must be ensured that it becomes more attractive. This means that the Danish People's Party has promised the voters that there will be no deterioration in the daily allowance. But what is it that DF is doing when they announce in the media that they are ready to cut the daily allowance to finance some minor improvements to the recovery rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111008	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111013	Some minor improvements, says Enhedslisten. I do not think that there are any minor improvements in the proposal. We are, in effect, pleased that the Commission has worked. We are also pleased that there have been minority opinions on how we can have a benefit system of value. What is important about the benefit system is that it should be of value to two parties, namely workers, but indeed employers. That is where we find the proposal that has been made very interesting. We think there are too many days of carnage. We want to help solve that. But we do not think that it is a small improvement that lies in the great work that has been done in what we have seen and which has been presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111050	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111053	Thank you. We can discuss whether it is a small or a great improvement. That is not really at the heart of this matter. The central point is that the Danish People's Party has promised the voters that no allowance will be cut; the system we have now is a bottom on which we must build; we should not reduce anything for anyone. Will the rapporteur deny that this is a promise made to the electorate? If the rapporteur acknowledges that the promise has been made to the electorate, what are we to call what the rapporteur's party is now doing, where we are negotiating cuts in daily allowances? I call it a bell-clear break.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111127	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111129	What's important to notice is what comes out of this deal when it's done. We have had an unemployment benefit system that has maintained people in unemployment. We have had a benefit system in which, if you were on a high daily allowance rate and went out for a few months and took a low-wage job, you lost the opportunity to return when the temporary agency or other work stopped again. There is no doubt that this is a huge boost for the individual unemployed, who are outside the labour market, in order to have an opportunity to return to the labour market, but still have a safety net in the form of the right to benefit. So we think that the proposal that has been put forward is very interesting and we will do a lot to ensure that it can be implemented, but with fewer days of carnage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111207	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111213	Thank you. It is of course always interesting what is being said in such a rapporteur's speech. It is also interesting what is not being said. If I heard correctly, not a single word was mentioned about social dumping, and I am a little surprised because it was one of the major battle numbers that DF had. I actually had the impression that the DF had changed its mind on this issue too, so that it agreed with the then government to intensify the fight against social dumping. When I ask, it is because I asked the tax minister yesterday and he said that I could not be surprised, it could not be surprising that the government had a different attitude to social dumping than the social democracy and the previous government. So can the DF's rapporteur not explain to me what are the priorities of the DF on social dumping in relation to the Finance Act? For all we have seen so far is that DF supports the government in weakening control of social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111311	Now we have to remember that the budget bill is a budget bill from the government, and this budget bill is also a proposal from the Left. And there is no doubt that there are things in this proposal that we think are quite excellent, among other things. in the field of health, and then there are things in this proposal that we think are really bad, among other things. When you look at housing support and other things. I did not mention that either, but it is also one of the chunks with which we have a really, really difficult time, and we would very much like to get rid of it. Social dumping is incredibly important, especially in relation to the many major projects, including government projects that we see are going to run now. It is incredibly important that we have supervision in relation to jobs, that the trade union movement and the Labour Inspectorate and others have opportunities to gain access to these jobs, so that we do not see that there is a subversive company running, and certainly not in state jobs. So of course it fills something with the Danish People's Party. And we are also very pleased that we can see that other parties in the Assembly are doing the same. This is an important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111402	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111406	But now I heard the rapporteur correctly, I think. After all, the rapporteur gives priority to the issue of supervision, and I am so glad that the Danish People's Party gives priority to this, because then we can agree to vote against the bill put forward by the tax minister which weakens the scope for SKAT to oversee social dumping in professional construction on private property. That is, I suppose, the commitment made by the rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111439	What is important is that there is an opportunity to control these jobs. There are two things in it: there is something that tends to be duvet-lifting, and then there is something where you come in and see what kind of agreements you have at these big jobs. We think it's embarrassing when you look at the subway construction. One simply cannot be aware as a public authority to have a building where there are so poor conditions and where it is so unstructured how the work is done. We want to support the fact that we do not see that again, and I hope the current government does. We would like to support the fact that in a country such as Denmark, in a welfare society like the Danish one, you cannot have workers walking under those conditions and with the wages at a workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111524	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111535	Thank you. I would like to return to the question of L 2 and L 3, because it is simply not clear to me what the Danish People's Party will actually vote for the two legislative proposals. So I would like to ask the rapporteur to make it quite clear whether you are voting yes or no. Because what we are talking about here is that the bill transfers 7 billion. kr. From the bourgeois welfare, the care of the elderly, the schools, the day institutions, to the state. Sir. René Christensen said earlier that the Municipality of the Landsforening has itself agreed on yes, for 2016, but not for 2017 and 2018 and 2019, which we are also voting on in this context. I would like to point out that KL's own President is actually appealing to the parties of the Danish Parliament to vote against this bill because he simply believes that it is irresponsible to transfer so much money from the municipalities to the state. So it was not something to use the mandates of the Danish People's Party here, where they could actually make a difference to the bourgeois welfare, to vote no to L 2 and L 3?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111635	Not directly indictment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111639	We fully recognise the system of agreements. And I understand that KL has gotten completely cold feet. What kind of deal did they make with the government on behalf of the municipalities? It should not be overlooked that in the agreement made for 2016 there was, therefore, that it should continue until 2019 and that it should be multiplied up, i.e. 1%. every year. It is also quite true that the agreement reached by the KL states that the money should go to general assessment in relation to how it comes back. The Danish People's Party does not want to support this, but we fully recognise the system of agreements. And I can promise that we will make it clear that we think the content of this agreement is badly negotiated and particularly badly negotiated by the KL. We will make that clear. We do not support the content, but we support the system of agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111727	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111735	So that's it, sir. René Christensen says that this agreement is potentially going to destroy the bourgeois welfare, have huge consequences for the elderly who need home care, and where we have already seen major cuts, but yet will not use their mandates to prevent it, despite the fact that KL's chairman himself says that this is crucial to how citizen-friendly welfare develops, despite the fact that KL's chairman himself appeals to the parties of the Folketing to vote no? Is that what the Danish People's Party says, so be it? So be it that it destroys the bourgeois welfare with our votes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111809	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111812	I hope and believe that there will be more than 90 mandates which cannot support the content of the agreement, but which, of course, recognise the contractual system. In fact, it would be a disaster if we did not recognise the system of agreements in this Chamber. Then KL, if KL wants to use its mandate, has the opportunity to say, next time you have to make an agreement with the government in office at any time, that if the government continues to hold on to something that is untenable that you cannot accept, then you have to stop making an agreement. Then the deal ends here in Parliament, and then you have to make the deal. But we recognise the agreement system and, unfortunately, KL has made one, as we see it with our glasses, very bad deal. But they have had 98 municipalities in their backs, which apparently gave KL the mandate that one could go in and negotiate, one could make a change of priority contribution, while also removing an earmarked elderly billion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111902	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022111909	I would like to follow up on what Mrs Stine Brix asked, because it is a little absurd that we are standing in the Chamber today and then hearing the Danish People's Party talk about introducing an elderly billion. But this summer we voted to remove an elderly billion when we voted in favour of the report by the Committee on Finance. We can now hear that you are not really in favour of this re-prioritisation contribution, but the comments on the draft law we are discussing today say: "Finally, the bill reflects the introduction of an annual re-prioritisation contribution of 1%. from the municipalities. Nevertheless, the Danish People's Party says that we will vote in favour of this, because that is something some others are talking about. Was it not precisely here in Parliament when we are just discussing a spending ceiling right ahead in 2019 that you should stand by politically what you actually want in 2019? For frankly, it is somewhat unclear to me what it is for a growth you want in public spending by the Danish People's Party if we just take 2019, which is actually what we are dealing with today's draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112003	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112006	We fully accept municipal autonomy. We fully accept that the municipalities have chosen to organise themselves in KL and that the KL has the negotiating mandate. We have not used our mandates and cannot use our mandates in the municipal agreement. It's the government and KL making that deal. If you ignore the economy of the municipalities, if you ignore the agreement that has been made, then you do not respect the autonomy of the municipalities. We do not want that, but we are sending a very clear signal that we are not behind the content. We're behind the contract system. We want KL and the government to enter into agreements on the economy of the municipalities, but we just want to say that the agreement that KL has made this time, yes, it must almost stand for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112049	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112053	From the SF's point of view, we are going to table an amendment precisely on the part concerning the priority contribution to the municipalities, and I would very much like the Danish People's Party to support it, because I am told by the rapporteur that it is in fact agreed that there should be no re-prioritisation contribution. I must admit, however, that I really do have the benefit of hearing the explanation that should be given that, when we have to press the button here in one and a half months' time, we end up voting green and voting in favour of a re-prioritisation contribution. The rapporteur simply has to explain it, just in Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112125	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112128	KL has made an agreement with 98 municipalities in the back. We recognise that. We think KL and the government made a really bad deal. We will draw attention to this also when we vote on the two legislative proposals, L 2 and L 3. At the same time, of course, we recognise that KL has been given the mandate of its 98 mayors, and they have then used it to make an agreement with which we disagree. We are then trying to rectify this in the context of the financial law negotiations. We would like to add more money to the municipalities in connection with an elderly billion. But if KL thinks they made a bad deal, then KL has to make it right. One of the ways is to put our heels in and say: We cannot solve the task; it must be done by the Folketing for us. If they do, we'll help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112211	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112218	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur did not mention anything in his speech about the cuts that have been made in the green area, in other words, both in the environment and in entrepreneurship and in the green sector. And I would really like to ask the rapporteur what the position of the Danish People's Party is on these cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112238	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112241	There are some of the cuts that we think are difficult, and then there are some that we think are quite reasonable. I also gave an answer earlier to the Radicals about this. We are looking at the list and we believe that, in particular, the green area is an area that has been growing for many years. There are things that need to be subsidised in order to get started, and we have benefited from it as a society. However, we reach a point at a time when we no longer need to subsidise, where the areas must also be able to be self-supporting, so that the money can be released to other areas. So we simply review the list point by point, and then the Danish People's Party finds out what we think is good and what we think is bad. And then, of course, we'll take it to our negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112320	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112323	Thank you. The rapporteur does not recognize that, for example, The European Commission says that by 2020 there are 20 million jobs in this area of green growth, which could also benefit Denmark in terms of creating growth and jobs, including in the outermost regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112339	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112342	Yes, we fully acknowledge that. However, care must be taken to ensure that the green area does not become an employment project. The green area, especially when you subsidise it with taxpayers' money, must, of course, be something that can generate growth and become self-supporting. If it continues to be the case that the green area must be something that is not sustainable in itself and that runs only on subsidies, then we will have a challenge. That is why we agree with the government when it has thrown up some balls. We do not agree with all the balls that have been thrown up, but one must then look at what these are for areas that are gradually going to have to be self-supporting. We see it, among other things. also in the wind turbine area, where you can see that after all it is becoming more and more self-supporting. This is a positive development and we must, of course, have it transferred in other areas as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112420	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112427	Thank you. In the election campaign, the Danish People's Party was the guarantor of a growth in government of 0.8%. Now we understand from the rapporteur that we are satisfied with a 0.3% growth rate. This corresponds next year to about 6,000 home helpers, which you do not think is needed anyway. And instead of recognising that the Danish People's Party has actually not had any influence, the rapporteur has said twice today that we are counting on more financial laws. So my question is very brief: is DF's requirements for future finance laws that growth is higher than 0.8%, so that on average you live up to your promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112509	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112512	I can at least promise that we want to change what we saw happen under the previous government, where there were fewer and fewer warm hands out in the municipalities. And that is what we are doing, with the demands we have, for this Finance Act, where we would like to see a billion earmarked for the elderly area, and it is precisely for warm hands out in the municipalities, so that we can provide decent care for the elderly. When we look at health, we are really, really pleased that the government has put forward a proposal where there is increased opportunity also to have more warm hands and shorter processing times in the health system. We're kind of happy about that. It is true, then, that we have not fully achieved our goal in relation to the things we want to do as a party. But what is important is that things are going in the right direction. And then you just have to say, when you talk about percentages, that the way in which the Socialists want to use public growth, we disagree entirely.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112601	Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112604	Thanks for the speech. I would also like an answer. Does the Danish People's Party want a growth on the forthcoming financial laws that are higher than 0.8%, so that overall you live up to your bell-clear election promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112618	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112620	The Danish People's Party will fight, where we have the opportunity, for us to have a dignified society, including in relation to welfare areas, in conjunction with the Finance Laws for 2016 and 2017 and all those who come. And when we talk about a growth rate of 0.8%, it is, after all, a small, moderate growth in public consumption. Especially when we look at demographics and the elderly, we can see that there are more older people, and in terms of health, we can also see that there are increasing costs. It requires small, moderate growth. That's why we've gone to the polls at 0.8%. We did the same in 2011, in fact together with both the Left and the Conservatives. Throughout the last parliamentary term, we were supported by the economic wise men in that this is what is needed. So, yes, it's still gone Danish People's Party's goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112701	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112708	I must admit that I find it very strange that in an election campaign just over, the Danish People's Party promises to work for lots of warm hands in the bourgeois sector: mass of home helpers, they may be educators in kindergarten, they may be primary school teachers, that is, a massive strengthening of citizen-friendly welfare. But when the election is over and we are about to discuss finance law, and when there is a re-priority contribution here, which will take billions of kroner from the municipalities and the citizen-friendly welfare, and which will mean cuts and which will mean the lay-offs of thousands of people, then the Danish People's Party cannot say clearly and clearly from the platform: we will not support that. I find this extremely strange, and I think it is also strange that it is constantly referred to the fact that an agreement has been made with the National Association of Municipalities. I do not know whether the rapporteur has noticed that, for the first time, the so-called agreement concluded before the summer recess is not called an agreement, and it actually simply notes that the government has indicated that it wants to implement these things. So my question is: why is the Danish People's Party not going to use the mandates you have when you have promised in the election campaign that you will fight for the welfare of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112817	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112820	I can say very clearly from this that the Danish People's Party does not support the re-priority contribution. It's very clear. We do not support that. We think it's bad. We think KL should have walked away. You should have said that if that is what is being put on the table, then we do not want to participate. It chose KL not to do that. KL had been given another mandate, that is to say that they could conclude an agreement in which there was a re-prioritisation contribution. We disagree with that. But, of course, we recognise that KL has 98 municipalities in the back. You don't have to ignore that. You've made a deal. The KL must obviously have an expectation that it will be possible to save billions of dollars in the municipalities without causing any pain. We simply do not believe that in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112902	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112905	I think it's a little weird how to pass the monkey on. I agree that KL shouldn't have made that deal. But the Danish People's Party is represented here in the Danish Parliament, and we have just had a parliamentary election campaign where the Danish People's Party has promised that the citizen-friendly welfare should be strengthened. How, then, can we not use our mandates to say clearly and clearly that we will not cut back on the citizen-centred welfare with a re-priority contribution that will take billions of dollars? I can say from our side in the Enhedslisten: we say what we mean, but we also do what we say. And we have done so in all financial law negotiations. If this had come up in the context of a financial bill debate with the previous government, we would have been able to say clearly and clearly that we would never vote in favour of this. I am surprised that DF will not use its mandates here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112948	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022112951	But there are Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti fundamentally different. Because Enhedslisten wants it to be the state that controls everything. We recognise that there is local self-government. If you do not recognise when an agreement has been reached, then there is no municipal autonomy, and then it is the Folketing that has to make the agreement on the local economy. In fact, we think it is important that the municipalities send KL into town with a mandate. We, I am sorry to use the phrase, do not understand that the KL had then been given the mandate they were given. But apparently they got that from their municipalities and from their 98 mayors. We disagree with that. But we do not really want us in this Parliament to discuss the economy of the municipalities every year. It is, of course, the municipalities and the government that determine the economy of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113033	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113040	Thank you. On some stretches I kind of like the Danish People's Party. Without petty distinctions to realism, then, when it comes to the Danish People's Party, there are battles in the fucking party. This was true, at least before the elections, of public growth, and it also applied to the question of relocation of state jobs, where the Danish People's Party believed that a very high number of governments were throwing in the pool of jobs to be moved out. I have great sympathy for the Danish People's Party's desire to strengthen the sparsely populated areas, but it is also here that I believe that the chain is jumping off completely for the Danish People's Party. Because the government moved state jobs out with the agreement that has been reached, yes, but the Finance Act that we are debating today, yes, then the government is closing much, far more jobs out in the province than has been relocated. Could Mr. René Christensen doesn't explain it to me? I understand, sir. René Christensen says that in relation to jobs in the province you give with one hand and go with the other, that is what was said earlier by the rapporteur. There I would just like to call on good people in the province to count their fingers on their hands after they've given Mr. René Christensen hand, for the weight is being cheated here from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113147	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113150	Now it is the case that we are here at first reading. And it is the case that there has been a proposal for the financial law discussions from the government and the Left. That's the way it is. Well, then we'll have to discuss what it looks like. And that is where we say very clearly and we hope that the Social Democratic Party will support the fact that it is important that we, among other things, support it. I think it is a good thing that we should be able to do something about this, and that we should be able to do something about it. It is not just to move the jobs out, it is actually to give the municipalities a better tax base. And the municipalities must be given the opportunity to have a full package. It is a question of making Denmark more united. And it is true that there are some opposing proposals in relation to the Finance Act, and we are fully aware of that. However, we do not agree with the draft budget put forward by the government. That's why we're going to financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113231	Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113233	Thank you. This answer is very, very interesting. I noticed that the Danish People's Party and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that if they were outside the government, yes, they would gain more influence on government policy. It then turned to 0.3%. growth in the public sector. It would have been a massacre if the DF had joined the government, and I'm so glad you didn't. However, your answer to my last question gives rise to such a clear and precise demand from Mr. René Christensen the answer to the question that says: Well, how big must the growth in the public sector be in order for DF to go along? Well, you've said that you want to push the government, but just answer the question quite clearly: How much do you want? René Christensen and Dansk Folkeparti that growth must be in the public sector, in order that DF is ready to close a finance agreement with the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113328	I think, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen himself is aware that there were a few cases of direct indictment. Looks like they're being directed along the way. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113335	Well, the Danish People's Party uses its mandates as best it can and best it can. That's the way it is. We choose not to go to financial law negotiations with ultimate demands. You've seen that before. Other parties have stood over with the finance minister under the previous government and got almost everything you wanted, and then you just missed the last, and then you slammed the door, and then you got nothing. Of course, the Danish People's Party uses its mandates to move Denmark in the direction we want and want. There we see in the Finance Act which has been presented as a proposal that there are some bars pointing in that direction. Of course, we want to push it further in our direction, in terms of getting a better welfare society, and we are using our mandates for that. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113416	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113425	Thank you very much. I am pressing because there was one thing I did not get an answer to in the rapporteur's speech, but now I hope he can help me on the way here. This applies to the re-prioritisation contribution, which also applies to educational institutions. The Minister, or rather the Ministers in this area, did not really want to answer that question. Now I myself have been in an election campaign with, among others. Mr. René Christensen, and I hope that DF could then be the ones who cared a little more about the small towns and the educations that lie there. Because it is the case that with the savings on the 2%. According to the rectors of many of the higher education institutions, they will frame and close courses in Nykøbing Falster, Rønne, Skive, Haderslev, Nørre Nissum, Sorø and elsewhere around the country. After all, we have tried to obtain a guarantee that these training courses will not close down, that is to say that we will maintain the supply of training in the province and ensure that they can also have well-trained labour there in the future. Will the rapporteur in this Chamber give a guarantee that the Danish People's Party will ensure that these courses do not close?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113536	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113539	We will do everything in our power to ensure that those training places do not close down, and that is what I have tried to say afterwards, because otherwise you will not get this prize. The education part is incredibly important for having a well-functioning local community. It should not be too far for education. Of course we cannot have education in all places, but when we look at the centralisation that has taken place over the last few years, we have to say that we are probably about to be at the level that is acceptable, in relation to the distance requirements that can be required to get to the place of education. But another thing is also important. It's not like you can't do things smarter and cheaper. After all, both the previous government, the present government and the previous government have again had a re-priority contribution for government. You have to remember that too. We want to help take responsibility for educational establishments, help write into the agreement, where they have to be geographically located, because what has been done for government agencies is that they have simply put the savings on them, and then politicians have sat back in the chair. And then what happened? Then you've centralised it all. This could easily happen to education, and we are very aware of that should not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113640	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113644	I thank you for your attention, but I would nevertheless like to know whether the rapporteur, who represents both the largest bourgeois parties, but also, of course, the party which generally cares about provincial areas, will not give a guarantee. If you are informed of a specific amount and it is on the way from the Ministry how much it will cost to maintain these courses in the ten smaller towns where they have higher education, will you not give a guarantee that that is what you get when you come in and sign the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113717	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113720	There are a lot of important parameters. There is no doubt that what we want is for as many training courses as possible to be maintained where they are. I cannot memorize where all the training places are located, and it may well be that there is one or two that may well be expendable. I am not going to be able to say that here from the Parliament's platform. But what we want is also to look at what it is then for some opportunities they have to survive. Now I happen to know the Nursing School in Nykøbing Falster, and there you actually have the opportunity to record more students than you can today. I mean, there's more people coming in. One could actually get a better business case by having the opportunity to admit more pupils to schools. You have to take this with you when you say that these educational establishments need to optimise their efforts. Then they should also be allowed to optimize it as well as possible, also in relation to admitting students, so get customers on their courses, and that will also be part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113805	Thank you. And the last questioner is, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113811	Thank you. Yes, it has been an interesting debate. It is, of course, just as the emphasis is placed on welfare in the speech, and then it has emerged through the debate that it is well-being in words without action, empty promises in stripes. I understand that the rapporteur attaches great importance to the agreement made by the KL without the rapporteur considering it to be a good agreement. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that it is only a one-year agreement made by the KL and that there is therefore a possibility that we can quickly change the course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113846	First of all, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party is fighting for welfare and not just in words. We have a very clear desire to add 1 billion to the area of the elderly in the municipalities. kr. a year. We can see that the citizens are getting older, and we want to help finance that. We want to help finance health care. We live longer, and it also means that we need to live longer with the shortcomings that we have. We want to help finance that. So there is no doubt that when the Danish People's Party says that we want to strengthen welfare, we do so both in words, in action and by means, i.e. economics, no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113923	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022113927	Well, that's very noble. However, I would like to know whether it is not a little worrying when you look at what is happening in the municipalities, i.e. the fact that KL has made an agreement. I have certainly noticed that in Aarhus there is a majority going further and trying to make cuts over several years as a consequence of the KL agreement that the Danish People's Party saw in some way. I mean, I think this seems to be taking advantage of the fact that there is, like, an alibi for not prioritising welfare, which I find deeply disappointing. I would like to hear from the rapporteur, if it is not true, that in a number of municipalities cuts are now being adopted, which, as such, are moving in the opposite direction to what the rapporteur would like to do in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022114008	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022114011	After all, we fully recognise that we have autonomous municipalities. We also recognise that when there are some who conclude an agreement, one can disagree or agree with that agreement. We strongly disagree with the agreement reached by the government and the KL, and we certainly hope that there are several parties here in the Danish Parliament who make it very clear that the content that KL has negotiated is not shared. At least it gives KL a mandate to negotiate for 2017. One should not underestimate the importance of comments on legislative proposals and that and that one can count to 90 in relation to the Parliamentary Chamber, that is to say in relation to who thought this was a good agreement and who thought it was a bad agreement. I hope that there will be 90 mandates that thought it was a bad deal the KL made with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022114059	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022114110	Thank you. Today, after all, we are formally starting negotiations on the first financial law since the elections this summer, when, as you know, the voters elected a new majority in the Folketing. That is why it is also for the first time in four years that it is a bourgeois finance minister who sits at the end of the table, and that in itself gives some peace of mind, I can say at least as far as I am concerned. I would like to start by stressing that we in the Left are very much looking forward to the negotiations that we are going to have with the other parties of the Folketing. There is nothing about a fist from here; on the contrary, we have open arms, and we also have open ears, in relation to the proposals that come naturally. But we also have a clear message for the parties that are going to: to gain influence, it requires realism to be included in the back of the head and the money to be included in the back pocket. When I had to prepare here for today's debate, I thought of an old child song, namely, there lives a bakery. As you know, the song ends with the sentence: "If you have money, then you can get it, but if you have no..." Yes, then we know the rest. That sentence hasn't lost its legitimacy since I first heard it as a little boy. The message that you have to bring the money, if you want something, is, of course, for most children's learning, and I therefore also hope that it is so well known to the parties here in Parliament, not least in relation to the negotiations on the Finance Act for 2016, because here it is more relevant than ever before. As you know, there is a lack of money in the Treasury. The economic room for manoeuvre is therefore 8 billion. kr. less towards 2020 than we were imagined when we took over the power of government. As you know, the check-out revealed that the money that some people before the elections were very busy spending on making electoral promises did not exist in the real world at all. Yeah, actually, there were bills that weren't paid. Yet we in the Left are not shaking our hands. We are ready to take responsibility for getting Denmark on and back on track. We will give priority to a healthy public economy and sound economic development based on restoring the balance between revenue and expenditure. We want to create a better opportunity for the money to be made before we use it. And we have our priorities clear, because we dare to give priority to them. We say quite clearly that appropriations that some might have previously thought were ever applicable until the sun burns out, some might say it is no longer. We want to give priority to selected areas and set a new direction for development. It requires changes, it requires priorities and it requires political courage. We have, for example. Priority was given to extra 2.4 billion. kr. to health care to strengthen efforts for demented and elderly medical patients and ensure a faster investigation and faster treatment. We will give priority to 0.5 billion. kr. to initiatives to ensure effective assistance for the socially disadvantaged. We will give priority to improving the conditions for Danish companies to create more jobs in Denmark, among others. in the form of a business tax reform. We will give priority to growth throughout the country, among other things. Through better conditions for the food industry, the relocation of state jobs, a more relaxed planning law, reinforced broadband coverage, just to mention some elements. We will give priority to funding for the housing job scheme that we promised before the elections and which we have already implemented after the elections by a broad majority here in Parliament. We will give priority to money for a new multi-year agreement for the police so that the police will continue to have the resources necessary to fulfil the tasks they face, including counter-terrorism and visibility throughout the country. On the other hand, we will find means by, among other things. to facilitate at the level of development assistance. We still have to be among the countries in the world that provide absolutely the most. We do so even after the government's re-prioritisation. There we will be in top five of the countries in the world that give the most in foreign aid. We also dare to set the direction of the funds so that we can have even more effect, among other things. by strengthening efforts in the neighbourhood in relation to the conflicts. We also find means, for example. to facilitate the funding for research, without implying that we do not meet the objectives that we have set ourselves and that we have put in the EU system, namely that we need more than 1%. of gross domestic product. We are also continuing to do so on the basis of the re-prioritisation that the government is proposing. We also dare to point the way, because in this area too, of course, the funds can be used more effectively, for example. less administration and more research. The municipalities, which have also already been mentioned in the debate, must, as the regions and the state, also take part in the provision of funds, so that, among other things, we have to take part. It is possible to create better conditions for companies to place their investments in this country, and hence the jobs and income on which the economy of the municipalities is also dependent and on which the citizen's welfare is also dependent. Things are connected. In short: We prioritize, and we lay out openly what we want to spend the money on, and we lay out openly where we will find the money • crown for crown • then the bottom line votes. In the face of this, I have seen only one attempt to put forward a financial bill, namely the pamphlet with which I am dealing here, and which I have referred to in the past, similar to a medium-term contribution from the Socialists. This is clearly what we are referring to when we say on the part of the Socialist Group that we have a calculated plan which is financed by the Crown. So it's these pages that are referred to. Figures may be grateful, but after all it is a financial act from the country's largest party, where the only figures are the page numbers and the few years mentioned in the paper. One might have expected something more • I would at least have expected something more than these far-reaching considerations, but some priority, some weight and some funding could have been put behind it. But, of course, it may be the traces of past times that frighten where one got so horribly wrong to become too concrete in one's promises, which one could not then fulfill afterwards. Of course, the Socialists cannot be thought into that, but then again. I was expecting more. Some may wonder why the government then makes it so difficult for itself to put forward a strict financial law, when most other parties come up with well-intentioned wishes that require additional funding. The easiest thing in the world would have been for us to just give more money to all areas, but it would not have been responsible. Of course, we have a responsibility as a government to ensure that the Danish economy is also at the appropriate distance from the demands that we ourselves have made in the budget law and that we are subject to EU rules. We should not drive right to the edge, right into the road trench, as we have seen in the past, which has made us extremely vulnerable to unforeseen events. We need to stay on the road safely and with a steady and firm hand on the steering wheel. Only in this way will we be able to move forward safely towards new goals. Our draft Finance Act is therefore on two legs: we want to strengthen core welfare in selected areas and, at the same time, we want to create better conditions for creating private jobs in the future. After all, more private jobs are all the prerequisites for income, so that in the years to come we can also have money for good schools, high-quality health care, decent care for the elderly, etc. This government doesn't promise as much as some might want, or as much as others might have the habit of doing. But in return, we keep what we promise. We know that it is not realistic to blow and have flour in your mouth at the same time, and now to return to the good old baker from Nørregade, and that is why we have also said that the pace at which the electoral promises can be fulfilled must be slowed down. Unfortunately, this is a finding and a consequence of a policy that led the Danish economy to the brink of the permissible. On the other hand, we also want to put some more yeast in the dough so that the social cake can grow, instead of eating the whole cake and leaving only the crumbs to future generations. With those words, I will look forward to the negotiations on the Finance Act for 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022114927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are, of course, a number of questions, but we are now postponing the sitting for a lunch break until 8 a.m. 13.00. Then the questioners come, and the first one asks after lunch, I can say, is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130003	We are going to resume the meeting where the Finance Act is for the first reading. We were able to hear the rapporteur, Mr Jacob Jensen, before the break, but we did not have time to ask questions. So we start on the question round for Jacob Jensen. As the rapporteur has now come to the floor, I would like to give the floor to the first person who has a question, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130038	Thank you, President, and I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the agreement we have just reached on daily allowances. This is important, even if it has nothing to do with this debate on the financial law that we are discussing. The rapporteur was very concerned about our financial legislation and was very concerned about the figures in the financial bill, which is why I have to say that we had made a great deal of effort to ensure that what was then included in our precise financial legislation could not be misunderstood. That is why I regret that the rapporteur alone kept an eye on the figures that were page numbers, and not the figures that we refer to, which are the government's own growth estimates. As you know, we are also referring to them. So first of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that it is actually the case to look at the 2017 and beyond estimates, and then you will see that there is actually a prospect of higher real growth than what was the basis of the government's own check-up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130156	Well, I'll send the congratulations back, too. I think it is really important that this is not what lies in the question here • that we have now made a good and robust and secure benefit system. But there will certainly be others who will ask, so we may be able to take the details about that. But just to start there, I remember that the rapporteur, in an answer to me earlier this day, said something like that the Left then gave with a fist, because we were not, as it were, accommodating to the Socialist Group I called it such a medium-term chronicle. I think that this agreement also shows that, on the part of the government and the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, we can work together across the Folketing also in difficult areas. But then to the specific question: well, that is true, but that does not change the view that we have an economy in Denmark that has been driven right to the edge of what is the acceptable in relation to the budget law and to EU rules. And there we are just of the opinion that we should be at the appropriate distance, because we do not know what might happen to unforeseen events that will allow the level of expenditure to increase. That is why we are simply saying that we are putting forward a financial law that is strict, but we are also putting it in a way that we get away from, as I call it, the road trench and enter the middle of the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130307	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht. We need to get a wire on Benny Engelbrecht. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130316	A microphone came in now, please, President. Yes, yes, but to the point of going all the way to the edge, I would say that I assume that Mr. Jacob Jensen has also read the briefing document which we have just received and which we will be discussing in the meeting we have in the Finance Committee later today, which tells us that the government has been able to go down without blouse and find money to finance a housing job scheme in 2015. Why? Yes, because there is actually quite a lot of air up to the budgetary ceilings. Even after financing the housing job scheme, there is to be exactly 4 billion. kr. up to the budgetary ceilings. It is not exactly possible to say this is to use rubs and stumps when not only has some air been left behind, but in fact has left so much air that the government has been able to finance a housing job scheme which, moreover, has little effect in terms of employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130416	That doesn't change my point of view. That does not change my point of view, and that is not something I am making up, because we could see from the statements and financial statements that have been made, namely that we have been on the edge and indeed on the wrong side of the limit of what was permissible in relation to our budgetary law, which we are all agreed on, and in relation to EU rules. The rapporteur started by saying that the government can choose the easy solution. No, we don't choose the easy solution. We choose the responsible solution. For the easiest thing in the world would be to say that now we're using it loosely. But we do not think that is sensible. We think it is reckless and it is even the source of funding that the Socialists point out in their so-called presentations to use the room for manoeuvre in the coming years. We don't want to. We'll be safe in the middle of the road and have a safe hand on the wheel. And that is what we will achieve by putting forward a financial bill with air to the limits that we have agreed ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130513	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130514	Thank you. After all, we have had a debate today on the re-prioritisation contribution, which I would like to take a little further on, because what we heard from the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party was that this could be cleaned up when you came to the municipal agreements, so if we adopt L 2 and L 3, you can change it again later. Can the rapporteur not confirm that, when the money is transferred to the state sub-ceiling, it can be used in the meantime?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130546	I mean, I have this approach to the world: we live in a country and that country we have a responsibility in this Parliament to set a course for. And with regard to that whole box thinking thing that I understand Enhedslisten is out in, it's not our approach to it. We think it is essential that there is of course a local authority, we think it is essential that agreements are made every year in the Ministry of Finance with the municipalities, and we also think it is important that we then set a direction for that money and, moreover, ensure that there is more funding. For the funds, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted says being used doesn't disappear into thin air. They are, of course, given particular priority, including the draft budget which we are discussing here. They are, of course, given priority, among other things. Some of the core welfare areas, which I also know lies Mr. Pelle Dragsted at heart, health, elderly etc. So the money doesn't go away. There's a direction being set for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130638	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130639	No, I don't think the money's gonna go away. What we're discussing is what they're being used for. The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party was up here saying that if the municipalities said no to an agreement this summer, then the Danish People's Party would support them in keeping the entire re-priority contribution in the coming years. So it is actually a very simple question I would like to ask. We know, for example, that a tax agreement will have to be negotiated this spring. And I can see that the rapporteur for Momentum, the KL's magazine, said a week ago: if we are to get the money out to, among other things. If we reduce the costs incurred by companies through tax incentives, we will have to get the money in the box first. So this is not really a polemical issue. I would just like to ask: is it the case that a majority of the Folketing here in April or March, or when it is intended to make a tax reform, can choose to dispose of the money which the Folketing, if adopted by L 2 and L 3, will be able to dispose of from the municipal sub-ceiling to the state sub-ceiling? Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130736	Yeah, that's kind of the whole idea. Well, I actually thought it was quite simple that that is the whole idea. We have said it quite honestly: we give priority to welfare areas such as the elderly, health etc., but we also give priority to two legs, where the other leg is to create better conditions for us to make investments stay in Denmark, make jobs stay in Denmark, make earnings stay in Denmark. And this requires, among other things, that we get relief from taxes and tax levels, so that our companies have better conditions to work under, and so the Danes feel motivated to enter the labour market. And that's what we're gonna add to when we're gonna make a tax package later in the season.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130819	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130820	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. One of the things we are very concerned about in the alternative is the cuts that are in relation to the whole green transition. And I would really like to ask the rapporteur whether we in the Left have considered whether, in relation to the jobs, the entrepreneurs and the innovative measures that exist and the way they are pruned, we are not helping to destroy the basis for a green transformation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130851	Absolutely we've considered everything about these things that we put forward, of course we do. However, I would like to say that, even with the priorities that we are setting, we are at an absolutely high level of ambition as far as the green transition is concerned. It is one of the highest in the world if not the highest in the world • 37 percent. in reduced CO2 emissions by 2020. It is a high level; it is such a high level that it can be said that the green transition, which we also share the ambition of, including the jobs that lie, is not going to be overwhelmed. On the contrary, it could have been imagined that if we had gone further, as some others do, I am thinking of a figure which is higher, it could have been 40%, it could have been something else, then one could just find that some of the costs that had to be rolled out on the companies would have drained labour and they would have drained jobs in Denmark, and they would then have moved to Poland and Germany, for example. It is just that the climate cannot tell the difference between foreigners coming from the south or north of the border. And there I just think it is important that we then have the jobs in Denmark and thus also the investments and revenues in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130957	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022130958	Thank you. Now it is the case that it is not more than 4 months since 49 researchers wrote in Politiken that we also have to be a pioneer country in Denmark and that it is, in fact, a good business. So I still find it difficult to understand how the rapporteur feels about the fact that jobs will then disappear from Denmark, knowing that there is an economy in this and knowing that it is also beneficial to growth, including in the outermost regions. Isn't that something the Left cares about?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131024	Yes, I can confirm that this is something we care about. And that's one of them. That is why we are trying to create a framework for some of the companies that are working in the outskirts, such as the whole food cluster, which currently has very, very tight conditions. There, together with several other parties here in the Danish Parliament before the elections, we have also put forward a plan which we are then trying to implement now after the elections, which should give us better opportunities to create, for example, the jobs and hence the income base that we all use and want to have for our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131056	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131057	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Danish People's Party is very happy that the Left has put on the agenda, that we must now have a united Denmark. The Danish People's Party has been fighting for this for many years, and now the work is also starting to bear fruit. The housing scheme helps to ensure this, and we fully recognise that the initiative has been taken to relocate these state jobs, and the 16-point plan on agricultural conditions also helps to support the outskirts. What is the question is whether the rapporteur can reveal in this way whether, when looking at the re-priority contribution in the field of education, particular attention will be paid to not giving with one hand and taking with the other hand if it is the case that the educational institutions choose to make centralisations in order to achieve savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131142	One might say that the re-prioritisation contribution is, of course, a framework that is being set up. Moreover, I have to acknowledge the comments on the joint efforts we are making, and on which we are all united, in terms of strengthening the peripheral regions as well. However, the re-prioritisation contribution is precisely a framework that we have set and how priorities take place is something that is happening locally. After all, we can see that the regions have been subject to a requirement of efficiency for several years, and they have lived up to that while productivity has increased. And the municipalities could also be imagined to do something similar. But how to choose to prioritize in the municipalities is precisely a local municipal matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131223	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131224	There are, after all, two types of re-priority contribution. There it is with the municipalities, and then it has been interpreted as wanting it to be introduced in the field of education as well. It is, of course, at the edge of the Finance Act, but it is also important for the things that are happening in the Finance Act. Because this is where you have to go. finance the 16-point plan, the housing job scheme and the other things that help to support the province in particular. And then it would just be a real shame if we saw later in autumn or spring that educational institutions start to centralise so that they disappear from the province. It could just be nice to hear whether the government has been considering it and whether particular attention will be paid to the fact that this does not happen. For then you lose the gain from the good work that the government and the Danish People's Party have together made around the outskirts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131320	After all, we have a structure, also around the educational institutions, which have an arm's length arm, one might say, to the Folketing. There are independent boards and managements, etc., which have just been set up in the world to assess how, within the framework and the budget they now have, they will, of course, get the most out of the funds in relation to the framework agreement that is being made, so as to ensure quality in teaching and so on. The arm's length principle is my goal, for I would very much hate to start dictating here from the platform or anywhere else in this house exactly how the organization should be in the individual areas. After all, I think that's best located locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131358	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131359	Before the last elections, the old SR government expressed a wish that electric cars should remain exempt. It wouldn't have found any money for that. It said that we will only find them in the financial law negotiations. It was very mocked of that, including by the Left, and I understand that. The thing about just saying that they would be found in the financial law negotiations was irresponsiblely meant by the Left, and we meant that in LA too. Now you in the Left and the government have just entered into an agreement with the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party to make the benefit system 300 million. kr. More expensive, because more than 600 more must be on cash benefits. Where's the money coming from? You can't figure that out together. The parties that make Finance Act 2016 for 2017 will find that. Why is it that was so foolish when the SR government did it, namely to postpone the bill to the Finance Act, quite brilliant when the Left Government does it itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131453	That's an excellent question, you might say. It is also important for me to stress that the starting point for us and we have not concealed that fact either was that it should be cost-neutral. But, of course, we also recognise that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament and that is why we have reached a compromise which has asked for and felt it was necessary to add so-called new money to the benefit system, i.e. 300 million. kr. That is why we say that we must, of course, have worked through this when the legislative proposal is to be made. It's very technical and comprehensive. It will then come, as stated in the agreement, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen refers to the financing of the Finance Act, which applies for 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131532	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131534	I understand that there is a majority in the Folketing and so on, but that is not the answer to the question. Is it not a sound principle that the parties who decide to spend more money also find out together how that money is to be found? Because it is not certain that it is the same group of parties that makes financial law for 2017 when we are there by 2016 that has just decided that the daily allowance system should be 300 million. kr. More expensive. It is quite likely that another group of parties will have to make financial legislation. Why does the Left not pay tribute to the principle that the parties that want to spend money must also find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131615	Well, that is a principle that we absolutely salute. It can be said that here in the Danish Parliament we have several agreements that extend over several years, and these are agreements that will then be the subject of agreement when they are to be implemented and implemented. I certainly assume that the parties which have now chosen to be behind and together for a benefit system will do so when the time comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131638	Thank you. I just got a message about the microphones. Of course, you've gotten in here the first time. If you want the word the second time, don't push in. It'll make it easier for the soundman to figure it out. So once you've pressed in the first time and I say the name, it should go automatically the second time with the soundman. It's just to avoid that waiting time that might cause a little trouble. Those are technical problems that can arise. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131708	Thank you. We can discuss back and forth the room for manoeuvre, but the priorities within the room for manoeuvre cannot be discussed. Unfortunately, the Left has chosen to put forward a financial bill which systematically cuts everything that could benefit the next generation, from education through educators to green conversion and development aid. But even within the logic that the Left has put forward, there is something that puzzles me, and that is directly following on from the question, Mr President. René Christensen asked. In other words, with one hand you are forced to relocate 3,900 state jobs, and with the other hand you are cutting in educational institutions, in green projects, in advisory services to various economic interests in rural areas. How is it that with one hand you want to strengthen rural areas and with the other hand you want to cut the same rural areas? This is not consistent, I think, even in the logic of the Left. Then perhaps we could not get close to the fact that the Left, along with the rest of us, made up for it by looking at the list of green projects and entrepreneurs that you want to prune, looking at the educational institutions that you also want to cut away from rural areas, and perhaps at least patched up a bit of the financial bill put forward by the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131819-2	But I completely disagree with Mr. Martin Lidegaard in that this government should do nothing for the outskirts and the province. On the contrary. The most ambitious relocation of state jobs has just been made in Danish history. There are proposals being made that we should significantly strengthen the food cluster, which is also welcomed by the food cluster, and this is a cluster that really works in rural areas. We come up with proposals that there should be growth throughout Denmark, among other things. with proposals for the liberalisation of the law on plans etc. That's one of the things you've been looking for in the province. So I certainly do not recognise the picture that there should have been a reduction in rural areas. On the contrary, I can say that Mr. Martin Lidegaard sat in government, had a minister who went under the name of rural minister, I think it was, but who did not come up with a single initiative at all that brought us forward in that direction. Now we have a new government and we bring forward one concrete proposal after another to support the development of the province. I am quite proud of that, and I can easily stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131920	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022131921	Yes, but what is strange is that, with one hand and I would very much like to acknowledge that, there are so little 4,000 government jobs being relocated. However, it helps fat if thousands of municipal jobs are destroyed by the other hand in the same municipalities to which the state jobs are now being relocated through this so-called're-priority' contribution; when training institutions in rural areas are being cut hard and when a green sector is being hit so hard, which, like the food sector, has not least created ten thousands of private jobs in rural areas. Now you cut down on financial advice; you cut down on the wind project in Samsø Energy Academy; you cut down on heat pumps, which could provide cheaper district heating for housing in the outlying areas; you cut down on geothermal. And that removes private jobs from rural areas. That's just what I'm pointing out. It is of course no use to do something good with one hand if, at the same time, private initiatives in rural areas are slaughtered at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132018	But I simply do not recognise and do not accept the premise that we should slaughter private jobs in rural areas. We are doing exactly the opposite with the policy we are putting forward now, namely to support the food cluster; to support the opportunities that municipalities have locally, for example. with a liberalised planning law; supporting that we can get better broadband coverage; some of the things that are being demanded; we introduce a housing job scheme which also helps to provide both jobs and, of course, also an economic back-up to not least children's families and others. There are a number of concrete proposals on how we can do these things, which have been demanded in rural areas and which will be translated into private jobs. In addition, there is the tax reform that we are proposing and which will also generate private jobs in the province.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132101	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132103	But I think that what we are hearing now is interesting: that farming should be easier, but that education cannot be provided and that, at the same time, municipal welfare should be reduced in the outermost municipalities. That is what we hear the Left say, and we have to acknowledge that the rapporteur says it very clearly, namely that it must be easier to farm, but whether people can get an education or have home care is not so important. However, I would like to take up again the whole discussion on the re-priority contribution, and I would like to read a quote: "We have only made a one-year agreement with the government. The government has so announced that it will seek a majority in the Folketing to cut one percent each year. I do not know whether a majority can be created for this when the budgetary law's expenditure ceilings are to be established. It's a quote from Mr. Martin Damm, president of the National Association of Municipalities. After all, it does a little bit in relation to what we heard the Danish People's Party say earlier: that now we have to deal with what we are dealing with today, too, with a spending ceiling in 2019. I would just like to hear the rapporteur of the Left: what are we dealing with today? Is this a spending ceiling in 2019 and does it have anything to do with the municipality agreement that was signed this summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132207	In other words, the expenditure ceiling for 2019 has to be fixed, because that follows from the budget law. I don't remember the paragraph, but I think it's section 6. 2, or it is Section 6, paragraph 2. 1, or something about that. It is clear from the budget law that we must set a ceiling in the fourth year, so that is quite justified. I'd like to arrest it, as sir. Jonas Dahl also uses his introduction to and then does not really want to ask, namely that we should go out and cut down on education, cut down on the children's field, the day institutions. I mean, it's a total mess. Well, what happened when Mr. Jonas Dahl sat by a majority and even was in government, let us just go on the day-care area? What happened then? Were there more educators, or were there fewer educators? There were fewer educators. Did more schoolteachers or fewer schoolteachers arrive in the school area? There were fewer schoolteachers. It was under Mr. Jonas Dahl's regime. Now we are proposing that the appropriations allocated to the reform of primary schools can of course be carried on. A boost of 750 million has been made. kr. in the Finance Act 2012 and 2015 they continue. One billion has been given. kr. For further training, for the upskilling of teachers and educators, in the primary school reform it goes on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132317	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132319	I would just like the rapporteur to respond to what I actually asked. It was a nice move to try to stay out of it. However, it was a very clear question that the KL agreement that was made this summer was related to 2016 - at least that is what KL's chairman himself said. And we have heard earlier here today that the Danish People's Party would not relate to the fact that today we should set a spending ceiling for 2019 • they say that it just follows from the KL agreement. Does it follow from the KL agreement that there must be a re-prioritisation contribution of 1%. in 2019: yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132350	I cannot quite understand why this should be a repeated question, because I answered it. It follows from the budget law. It follows from the budget law that an expenditure ceiling is to be established in the fourth financial year, which is then 2019. I don't know if it was very unclear, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132404	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132407	Thank you. I'd like to say first that I think, sir. Jacob Jensen is an excellent financial rapporteur for the Left because he so clearly chops into granite that the Left's draft budget is an expression of clear priorities, as well as the front page of the draft budget. I understand that money needs to be spent on something and taken from something else. There is only one place where I believe that government policy is a sign of confusion, and that is in the area of vocational training where we found 150 million a few weeks ago. kr. to buy new equipment, and where I think the government's Minister of Education is doing a good job implementing the reform we have made and which is a success we just got figures yesterday: only 3%. Drops out of vocational training. That's good. On the other hand, the government saves 20%. in the free vocational schools, which aim to get more young people into vocational training, and 2%. (i) a re-prioritized contribution to all vocational training programmes, which will amount to 600 million. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So I understand that the signals coming from vocational training, both from managers and trade teachers, are: what does the government really want? The government is committed to the objective of 25%. In the case of a youth year within a few years, how does this fit in with the priorities of the draft budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132532	But I can stand up to the goal of what is being done in relation to vocational training. What did not succeed, it can be said, under the then government where Mr. Mattias Tesfaye then did not sit in the Folketing, but still was a member of the same party.. has now succeeded. It has now been possible to obtain 150 million. kr. To finance the bills which were not paid under the previous government; to provide a pool of equipment so that the quality training courses can be trained as they should be. I'm glad. I merely note that this did not happen under the then government, and then I cannot understand why we should be reproached for the fact that we are now implementing it under the current government. But that is the way things are in politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132615	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132616	Finally, the rapporteur must not take this as a scold. I would just like to say that I am surprised that we are going out of a negotiating room with 150 million people. kr. for new equipment with its arms up above its head, and then it will have to be three days, and then we will have a proposal for a financial bill in which the government proposes to cut 149 million. kr. at exactly the same vocational schools. That is why I ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur understand if we think that we are making a little fool of them around vocational schools when we give them 150 million on Fridays? kr. With the arms above your head and the government on Tuesdays takes 149 million. kr.? Does the rapporteur understand that there is some confusion in vocational training?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132707	But the confusion can arise for many reasons. But we have certainly not concealed the intentions we have. We have had an intention to give vocational schools a boost with that pool of 150 million. kr., so that the equipment could be updated. The government of that time could not do so, fortunately the present government can do so. And then we'll get around the priority pool. But that is once again a priority. It is also a priority where we can see that research institutions and elsewhere can use the money more appropriately than they are doing today. And we believe that when we make a determined effort, as we have agreed now, it will give a boost, and we must also do so within the budget that we have, as I have also spoken to Mr Tugendhat. René Christensen about a moment ago, assess how to get the most out of the money that is left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132756	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132759	On 7 June during the election campaign, the then Prime Minister, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, was in debate with the current Prime Minister, and then the person who is now Prime Minister in Denmark said: I want to make a promise here tonight, and I keep my promises: we will not cut the daily allowance. You want to make a deal tonight with me? he asked Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt. So it is just that one has to ask, when one looks at the benefit agreement that has just been made, where the rates are actually being cut, how does this relate to the Prime Minister's wish to make a promise during the election campaign and to promise to keep his promises? Isn't there a bell-clear promise here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132849	No, sir. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten misunderstands it. Well, vows were under the previous government. The present government is keeping its promises, and this is also happening in this area, because the daily allowance rate is not being cut. It is the graduation rate, even for non-parents only, that is affected. But it was the allowance rate that was promised and I do not quite remember whether an agreement was made that evening, so I should not say that; you can look up the history books to see that agreement and we have now reached a broad agreement on this in the Folketing of the government, the Left, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, and I am quite satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132922	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022132923	In other words, the graduation rate is also an allowance rate, plus that when you suddenly introduce caring days, it is a de facto reduction in the daily allowance, because there will be a few days when you cannot receive unemployment benefit. And if you convert it into a performance, it's a lower performance. That's cutting the cash benefits. Then I will just have to ask again whether this is not a breach of the promise when the current Prime Minister says in a television debate on 7 June: I want to make a promise here tonight and I keep my promises: we will not cut the daily allowance. But the benefits are being cut, as I have just explained. Can we not have a recognition or an admission that this is a clear promise by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133012	No, because that would be lying, and you can't. Because there is no breach of promise. It is a matter of keeping that agreement or promise, you can say as it was put forward, and additional funds are now being allocated to the benefit system, namely 300 million. kr. So I think that is quite similar to what we have reached an agreement on and what was mentioned here earlier. Moreover, I would like to say about the whole benefit agreement that the starting point for it is the Social Fund Commission, where the social partners have been represented, where the trade union movement has been presented, where the employer side has been represented and where a compromise has been reached. And that is, in fact, the starting point for the agreement that is now widely reached here in the Danish Parliament, and I can be fully committed to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133056	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133057	When the draft Finance Bill was presented, the government revised the assessment of what economic room for manoeuvre, such as: was created by the previous government and by the better times. Under the SR government, it was thought that this would be 0.6%, and in the draft budget it will be so adjusted up to 0.7 per cent. So there is a little more money in the years up to 2020 to work with when you're a government and you're doing financial law games than you thought before you came up with the financial law game. How does it compare with the fact that both the Minister for Finance in the public debate on television and the finance rapporteur Jacob Jensen here say the opposite, that there is less money to do good with than there was before the elections? The financial bill states that there is more money now that you have looked for, and in the public debate and here from the platform you say that there is less money. Both can't vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133202	No, of course it cannot, but that is not the case either. We can see from the cash check that the money that was written about in its financial statement from the spring, probably in May this year, is not there. They haven't been there. And there were promises given by the then government right up to the parliamentary elections, among others. on a so-called children's package. There you went in and said that this room for manoeuvre is now spending a few billion on, if I am not mistaken, in other words, in order to make a children's package. That money wasn't there. That's what the checkout showed. And it also showed that we are at a level that places us on the edge, because there are demands from the European Union, and there are the demands we have imposed on ourselves in the budget law. We're even beyond the edge. That is why we are putting forward a financial bill which makes us come back, you might say, if not quite up to the middle of the road, then at least in the middle of the road where we have previously been lying at the edge of the road trench. That's why we're trying to tighten up. After all, this financial law has exactly what is technically called a negative financial effect, but that is exactly why we are doing it, in other words to get back on track, compared to where we were before the elections. The money was not there, even though it was claimed to be the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133311	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133312	It can be seen that the financial rapporteurs in the bourgeois camp are using such slightly different methods. Sir. René Christensen speaks out, and Mr. Jacob Jensen is lying. That is how you can choose your course of action. But now we are talking specifically about a children's package. After all, it was to be financed by the economic space mentioned here, which was thought to be 0.6% before the elections. Until 2020 and as the government now says is 0.7 per cent. Unless Jacob Jensen can now say that it is simply not true what the Finance Bill of the Left says, i.e. that the room for manoeuvre is 0.7 per cent. And not 0.6%, that's bullshit. Jacob Jensen is saying. Because then there will be no less money to make, for example. a children's package, but there's actually more money. I just think that we should say what it is and talk about our political priorities rather than stand on the platform and say something that simply does not fit. And when one is then asked under ministerial responsibility and has to answer honestly to the Folketing on written questions, one has to answer what is correct. However, let us have a real political debate instead of making fools of people and actually saying something that is not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133424	I guess it almost speaks for itself. I don't think I'm going to go into that controversy about who's telling the truth and not telling the truth. I simply note what we have always seen, namely that the economic space that was claimed to be there was not existing. But when you presented your financial statement in May of this year, you went into an election campaign and said that we can spend a lot of money here. And it's not a joke. It might almost sound like we're such self-indulgents who think that we have some money we can do something good with and make some people happy with, but we choose not to do so, because we do not think there is any reason for that. We choose to put forward a financial bill and hope to support it, and that is how there is accountability about the economy, so that we are at a good distance from the limits that apply in the budget law and in the EU recommendation. I was actually hoping that Mr. Jesper Petersen was in on that, but apparently he's not anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133517	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133519	Thank you. Up to the elections and during the election campaign, the Left said several times that there should be zero growth in the municipalities. We, who were then in the municipalities, were taught that zero growth means that there would be the same money tomorrow as there was yesterday. What can then be said is that the government has invented a new concept: the re-priority contribution, which means that the municipalities have to hand over 2.4 billion. kr. in 2016, and then they get 1.9 billion. kr. Back up. Will the rapporteur recognise that this must mean that in 2016 the municipalities have EUR 0.5 billion. kr. less to operate service for out in the municipalities? So we are not talking about zero growth, we are talking about real minus growth in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133611	Well, I think that Mr. Erik Christensen just misunderstood our exit point. Our starting point was that the public sector should have a stop to spending. We believe that the public sector, which is one of the world's largest, is the size of the public sector and it is below one. However, it can be said that the re-prioritisation now for 2016 amounts to 500 million. kr. less, as the questioner rightly says, but this is clearly in line with the policy pursued by the Social Democrats and the then government, namely consistent negative growth in the municipalities. One might then ask whether the Social Democratic Party disagrees with that now, when they themselves were in charge of that policy in the past. I don't know. In any case, we can say that we are fulfilling the promise we made before the elections. As you know, we are doing so in the Left, namely that we had the starting point, that there should be a stop to expenditure. Then some would say that we do not quite keep that promise because we actually have a net approach of 0.3 per cent, I think it is, but it is at least approximately zero. That is what we voted for, and that is what we are doing now after the elections, if we are given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133716	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133717	I am very pleased that the rapporteur recognises and recognises that in 2016 there will be minus growth in the municipalities. Zero growth in general in the public sector is also seen as zero growth in the municipalities, but the rapporteur has now acknowledged from the platform that there will be a minus growth in the municipalities in 2016 of 0.5 billion. kr. If you look ahead, it is also included in the proposal that also in 2017, 2018 and 2019 will be downloaded 1%. in the municipalities, i.e. 2.4 billion. kr through the so-called re-prioritization contribution. That is why I would just like to ask: can the rapporteur here today guarantee that the same amount will be spent, i.e. 2.4 billion? kr., back to the municipalities, but prioritized to something else? Otherwise, there will also be minus growth in both 2017, 2018 and 2019, and then you can say that we are in the situation that we can in no way talk about zero growth, but about real negative growth in the municipalities in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133823	No, I cannot give that guarantee, because no decision has been taken. So it's pretty clear. But it can be said that under the then government there was minus growth, but now there is a concept called really minus growth. Of course, you can bend that down as you like. But what is our starting point, including with regard to the economy of the municipalities, is, of course, that we need to create better conditions for this country to earn some money, for the municipalities to be able to get more people into employment, and for local people, among other things. through a liberalised planning law, etc. have better opportunities and a better framework for working locally. This must all lead to more jobs, more investment and more income for our common welfare society. That is the one leg on which our draft budget is based, and the other leg is to give priority to core welfare based on health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133909	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022133911	Thank you. I would just like to return to the green agenda. My party colleague Josephine Fock mentioned earlier the 49 researchers who were out earlier this year expressing concern about cutting climate and environmental issues, because that is where we have a leading position, and that is where we have very much potential for development. But it is not only researchers and environmental organisations who are concerned here. We are looking at the latest more and more business organisations and companies that mention that they will consider dropping or, at least, turning down investment in Denmark enormously if you keep cutting back here. Does it not concern the government at all that such statements are made in relation to the environment and climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134003	I must say that I also hear business organisations calling for better working conditions, including lower taxes and charges. I have heard that for several years, at least, has been one of the most glaring wishes. This is one of the things this government is now proposing to be able to implement not just some pillage, but real relief. These are both reliefs at cost level and reliefs in the administrative burdens that lie where, among other things, we find ourselves. We are going in and saying that we must have a regime in which new legislation can only be introduced twice a year, in other words two fixed dates. It's just to give an example, there's a stripe of others. These are some of the elements that lie and, of course, when it comes to tax relief, it requires that we also find the funding for this. That is what we stand for, and that is what we do. I can easily stand up for an ambition to reduce CO2 by 2020. I can easily stand by that as it is one of the world's highest levels of ambition if it is not the world's highest.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134056	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134058	Yeah, but there's a lot of cutting down on, for example. such as the EUDP support scheme. This is where companies get the start-up aid in an area in which we see really high growth. I've heard figures at as high as 15%. In the field of green energy technology, growth is much higher than overall growth. And shouldn't you use the window there to make a continued bet on this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134128	I have a feeling that the questioner in the detail knows something more about this field than I do, so I have to move away from starting to wise myself very strongly in detail. But I can say in general terms: we absolutely have a green agenda on the part of the government, absolutely. We just don't want a game like this where you have to guess a number and then go for something you can't do in the real world anyway. We want to be realistic, but ambitious. And so I think we are in this area too, when, as I say, we are in the driver's sweater, in addition to what the rest of the European Union and other countries in the world are doing. That is why, of course, we have a position to maintain, but we certainly do so with the financial law which we are putting forward here absolutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134212	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134214	Thank you. I think I would like to follow up on Mr Jesper Petersen's question about the alleged cashier's check-up. I am here with Budget Overview 3, and if you look up it on page 18, you can read: • In the updated medium-term projection to 2020, which is the basis for the ceiling set in 2019, real growth in public consumption averages approx. 0,7 per cent in 2016-2020. Can I ask the rapporteur here in Things to confirm two things: 1) that the SR government in its projection had a real growth rate of 0.6%, and 2) that 0.7 is greater than 0.6?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134304	The last thing I can do, I think, is quite obvious. I almost think it seems banal. What I just have to say quietly, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen and others who are interested in it are that when we took over the government this summer, the Ministry of Finance took the summer break to review: what is there of unpaid bills, and what is it of an economy that is available, if we are to bear in mind that we have to stay at the safe distance from the borders with the European Union and with the budget? With that in mind, I know that it is scratching the fingers of the Socialists to get to work on using fictional revenue that may come out sometime in the estimates, but that is just not how we operate on the Left side. We're operating in a way that makes sure what we're doing is safe. We would like to give priority to the framework, but we would also like to give priority to the growth framework, which Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen refers to, in fact, is becoming even bigger in the years to come because revenue has been created.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134409	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134410	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur can confirm that 0.7 is greater than 0.6. What this is all about is the fact that the check-up that your own government has undertaken has actually shown that the room for manoeuvre is greater than was initially assumed. Then the rapporteur will not confirm that the Ministry of Finance has made it clear that there is room for spending more money on welfare by 2020 and not less, as the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur themselves are actually trying to give the impression in the public debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134441	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I must say that this is the last question asked at this stage, so that the rapporteur is finished when the rapporteur has answered this question. I regret that we cannot achieve more, but there is a time limit for how long the rapporteur will be standing up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134455	Yes, unfortunately, I was saying, because this is a very good discussion. This does not change the fact that we took over a level of the financial framework which, with the expression of the Minister for Finance, was zero. That is what was in place, and we have to deal with that. As I said just now, I know that when you look at this medium-term chronicle from the Social Democratic Party, you can see that they write that future room for manoeuvre can only be used as a source of funding, but that is not how we are in the Left. We want certainty about what is going on and we do not want to operate with fictitious revenue that will come sometime in the future. On the other hand, we would like to work with the Social Democrats, I would like to emphasise that, and here I return a hand to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht and Company to ensure that the income we have for our welfare society is created. They are created by getting private jobs, and private jobs come if investment is in Denmark, and they are only in Denmark if we give priority to the track of lower taxes and charges for our businesses, better framework conditions, more freer frameworks, less bureaucracy, etc. In this way, we will also have the opportunity in the years to come to discuss here in the Parliamentary Chamber how to improve our health care, our schools, our care for the elderly and all the other good that we would like to do together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134612	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the end of the question to the Left rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Pelle Dragsted does not have to run because it is perhaps just one question or one minute that goes from speaking time, we do not know that. No, we'll make it all. We're not supposed to get hurt by running. Now it's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022134643	Thank you. What kind of Denmark do we want? What kind of society do we want to live in? That is basically what we are debating when we are debating financial law. It's our budget. I heard the Prime Minister say in his opening speech that Denmark is a lovely country. That is true, but it is also true that it is far from being the truth for everyone. Time and again we hear stories of quite unreasonable conditions for our older fellow citizens; about elderly people who have to wear wet diapers because there are not enough staff to help them in the toilet; about elderly people with incontinence, who only change their bed linens once a month and who do not get the help they should, after having contributed in a long life to the labour market and contributed to the community. We hear about people with disabilities who are deprived of their help so that they can no longer go outside their homes. The other day we could read about a woman who had taken her own life in desperation after the municipality had taken her disability care from her. In our day nurseries and in our kindergartens, there have been fewer and fewer adults per year. child. Pedagogues stand alone with up to 20 children on the outskirts. It makes it uncomfortable for Danish parents to return their children. And people affected by unemployment and sickness have been hit by one cut after another. Now, behind closed doors, a majority in the Danish Parliament has made a settlement on the daily allowance, which should be the full and comprehensive solution, again a settlement which means that all Danish unemployed people will have less to live for, and where newly trained unemployed people will get nearly 2,000 DKK. less a month to live for. This was not what the Social Democrats, the Left or the Danish People's Party promised the voters before this election. They promised exactly the opposite. I think we should be ashamed of the breach of the agreement that has been reached today. That is the question we must ask ourselves: is that really what we want in a rich country like Denmark? Because it's not something that happens by itself. After all, the deterioration that is taking place in the municipalities, the deterioration of those of our fellow citizens affected by unemployment and disease, are the result of priorities and political decisions taken by a majority in this House. Because in the same period as the reforms and cuts have been carried out, there has been room for tax rebates to be distributed. 3 billion kr. costs the reductions in corporate tax alone in 2016, i.e. the financial year we are now discussing. Imagine how much welfare we could have gotten for that money. Imagine how many more visits from home help the individual elderly could have had. Imagine how many more skilled educators and educators we could have employed to create a secure environment for our children. Last week we tabled the Enhedslisten's draft Finance Act. I believe that it meets even the demands of the Left on how such a proposal should look. We are not afraid of prioritising. We do not believe that there is any money to facilitate corporate tax and top tax as planned in the coming years. We would much rather spend that money to ensure that our older fellow citizens have a good and safe life, so that you don't have to be afraid of getting old in Denmark; spend it on more staff in our day care institutions; on a safe daily allowance system, yes, you heard correctly: a safe daily allowance system that means that all the people who live on going to work know that the day the accident hits you actually have something to live on, so that you can also pay your rent and spend it on getting the damage fixed after school reform; and on investing in the green transition and in our rural areas. It is just to mention some of the things we think there is a need to rectify. The proposal is of course fully funded and can be read on our website. Unfortunately, the government's draft Finance Bill points in the completely opposite direction: towards a more class-divided society, towards a more cynical society, towards worse welfare, more inequality and more insecurity for the vast majority of Danes who live on their work. The Minister for Finance has then tried to give the impression that the whole miser is due to the old government leaving a bankrupt man and that there is no money to do good with. That's not true. The government can easily find money for what the government wants to find money for. Billions have been found for a craftsman's allowance, so the warehouse worker in the rental house above the tax ticket has to pay for Frederiksberg's lawyer to have the men's apartment painted. And they have God help me found 600 million. kr. to lower the tax for a small exquisite group of Denmark's billionaire heirs; 600 million. kr. to reopen a treasure hole for Denmark's richest families. Indeed, as much new money is being burned off in the draft budget on tax rebates for the largest companies and the richest families, which are being given priority throughout health and the elderly together. If one is to commend the Left for something, then it is to be rudely honest about what class interests this narrow minority government is primarily concerned with. I can't believe you're cutting training for short-educated Danes. Imagine cutting in the housing allowance of poor pensioners in order to accommodate some of Denmark's greatest wealthy people. It's class politics that wants something. The government's budget bill is not only antisocial, it is also creepy short-sighted. In the long term, violent cuts in our education and research will mean that Denmark will be less prosperous, not more prosperous. It will also hit ourselves hard on the back of our necks, that the government completely shaves the many good green initiatives, such as: The Enhedslisten has ensured in the last 4 years that initiatives should have made Denmark ready for the future and that when the whole world is to switch to green technology in the coming years, Denmark was at the forefront, then the Danish companies were ahead. That's what you destroy. It is also creepingly short-sighted that we want to cut back on aid from the developing countries. Do you really think there will be fewer poor, less conflict and hence fewer flows of refugees by cutting back on aid to some of the world's poorest countries? The Finance Act, as I have also pointed out in several speeches in the debate, is not the only legislative proposal we are discussing today in this debate. We are also discussing two other legislative proposals that have far-reaching implications for our welfare societies. These are the two legislative proposals which deal with what are called expenditure ceilings. It may sound a little complicated, but it is basically about how much money the municipalities need to spend in the coming years. That is where the government is going to propose a reduction of 2.4 billion. kr. each year, i.e. new 2.4 billion. kr. The following year, and the promotion in 2019, the municipalities will then have 7 billion. kr. less to do good with. In other words, at a time when there are more elderly people who need help; at a time when the government, together with a majority, has carried out a lot of reforms which have deteriorated the conditions for employees, because there should be money to take care of more elderly people, and then we will cut back and spend the money we got out of the reforms to lighten taxes instead. I think that is not exactly what was envisaged at the time of the reduction in the early retirement pension and the retirement pension and sickness benefits and the early retirement pension. Then it was said: it is because we need to spend more money on the elderly, not less money. It will have serious consequences if this is implemented. It is thousands of local government employees who are to be terminated in our home care, in our nursing homes, in our kindergartens. Fortunately, it can be said that there is a majority of parties in this Parliament who went to elections on the contrary. Both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats promised that they would make the fight against zero growth their perhaps most important match in the next four years. That is why, of course, I also expect that the two parties will not vote in favour of this re-priority contribution. I hope that the two parties will not run from their promises to the electorate, because that will certainly be a failure of dimensions. As I began with, this debate is, after all, about what kind of society we want. Do we want a society where tax relief is available for billionaire heirs, but where we cannot ensure a dignified life for people with disabilities? Do we want a society in which the people who have the least in our society have even less to live for, so that we can lower the taxes on the wealthiest? Do we want a society in which the people who are hit by unemployment have to lose their income base and be pushed into the mud? These are some of the questions that the government and its support parties, not least the Danish People's Party, who are on the watch under this government and who have elected on a social profile, should answer in this debate and in the coming weeks and months of debate on next year's Finance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022135623	Thank you. There are a few questions. The first is sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022135628	Thank you to the rapporteur for a speech that is always straightforward and understandable. Then you can always discuss whether you agree, but that is what we are here for. The rapporteur cares a lot about the core welfare area. We all do that somewhere, and he mentions, among other things. day care, the school area and stuff like that. It is not long ago that there was another majority here in the Danish Parliament, where Enhedslisten had the decisive mandates. And I would just like to ask what happened during the period when Enhedslisten had the crucial mandates during the financial negotiations, in relation, for example, to the number of educators in day care institutions and perhaps also to the number of school teachers. Was it too upward, or was it too downward, while Enhedslisten had the guard?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022135712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022135714	Thank you. With regard to the number of employees in day-care institutions, the downward curve of the previous government was actually broken. After 2008 and after the crisis, we saw a huge reduction in the number of public employees hit particularly hard in the area of children and the elderly. The unitary list was allocated 500 million on the first financial law we were involved in. kr. to hire 1,500 new educators, and we later, in the latest Finance Act, together with the SF, thanks for the additional 250 million set aside. If you look at developments, at norms, it actually meant that the downward trend was stopped and flattened. There is no doubt that we did not get things right again and that there is still a huge backlog, and that is also why it is so disastrous that the Left is now setting out to cut even deeper in municipal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022135803	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022135804	Specifically in relation to the area of children and school, I would like to say that it is of course up to the municipalities to give priority within the framework that we are now setting up. But it is also an issue which the Enhedslisten could have given priority to when he was in power. After all, the Enhedslisten had the power here in the Parliamentary Chamber; they had the decisive mandates. One could have said to the government Helle Thorning-Schmidt: We'll pull the blanket under you if you don't deliver it. So in relation to the curve, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted explains not only was flattened out but also got a boost, it wasn't a flattening. It was that during the period when Enhedslisten was on duty here in the Assembly Hall, several thousand fewer educators were close to 1,000 fewer primary school teachers. That was the result that Enhedslisten got out of having the crucial mandates. I just want to ask you to get the proportions in place when you kiss us in order, after all, to keep the same level as what was this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022135854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022135855	Well, it's not true after the information I have that fewer educators came in those years. We managed to flatten the curve, so that the standards relative to the number of children were about the same. At least that is the information we have received from BUPL and the trade unions in this area. But it's also a weird picture you're putting up, because what are you saying? Should Enhedslisten have brought the government down to get you and your friend here in the treasury chair, who will cut down by 2.4 billion. kr. in the municipalities? Well, we weren't happy with the previous government, we weren't government party. So we had the problem that every time we negotiated the Finance Act, Mr. Lars Løkke, because he might have just been out in some storm about something GGGI, ready to jump in and sell himself cheaply in those negotiations. Those were the terms. Although one is a parliamentary basis, the parliamentary power relationship can be in a way that is not advantageous, and unfortunately it was a long way along the way during that period. We would have liked to have secured a boost in the area of day-care, and we will continue to fight for this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022135950	I should just like to point out to the rapporteur that he is not allowed to use the direct indictment of the rapporteur of the Left and the Minister, but must say the rapporteur of the Left or the name and use the Minister's title, not say you or you. Pelle Dragsted I shall be aware of this in the future). It is the party's policy that is represented, and it is not the people that should be pursued. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022140014	Sir. Pelle Dragsted starts his speech with the fact that we need to talk about what society we want, and I think that is very good. In relation to what society we want, the Enhedslisten is generally very good at saying how to use the wealth generated in the society we have here today, that is, what the money is for. But it is money that comes out of a capitalist system. It is a capitalist economy we have, and it is the one that creates the much money that Enhedslisten would like to spend. Conversely, Enhedslisten wants to abolish the capitalist system. It is hoped that large companies such as A.P. Møller, Danfoss, Grundfos, Vestas etc. either be nationalised and taken over by the State or taken from the owners, the founders, the shareholders and given to the employees. After all, there is no country in the world that has the social model that has at the same time generated as much profits as you can give to the weak and the sick as we have in Denmark. So how will Enhedslisten find money for the weak and sick if Enhedslisten will at the same time end the capitalist system and create the poverty that we know from other countries like Cuba and the like?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022140124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022140125	I appreciate the question. What creates the value of a society is that there are people who go to work. They are the ones who create values in society. I know it's incredibly hard to understand for the Liberal Alliance. They think they're the ones who sit in the boss hall that create the value, but actually it's not. It is the people who meet in the morning; it is the people who clean before the other meetings that create the values. In Denmark we have a capitalist economy, yes, for a large part of the economy, but we also have a public sector, and indeed value is being created. It is not the case that, because a hospital is handed over to the rapporteur's friends in the private sector, it suddenly begins to create value, while, when it was under the public domain, it did not create value. It doesn't work that way. When we go to work and provide services, it creates value, whether those services are provided through the market or whether those services are provided through a solidarity tax system. One could turn the question around and say: Imagine that a society like the Danish one with such a large public sector, the enormous tax burden and so solidarity for employees is nevertheless one of the world's most prosperous societies. It could be that the socialist ideas which actually form the basis of our welfare society and our model of solidarity in the labour market are the ones that are best suited to creating prosperity in a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022140244	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022140245	Value in a society is created by everyone who makes productive efforts, including everyone who invests capital in new production and new ways of producing. But the question remains: what society with a socialist economy can Mr. Pelle Dragsted points out that he can afford the things Mr. Pelle Dragsted appreciates here in Denmark? Which society with a socialist economy, i.e. state ownership of the means of production, has money to the extent of home care, health care, social security networks etc., as Mr. Pelle Dragsted is very willing to spend money on here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022140328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022140330	Neither Enhedslisten nor myself are in favour of a total state ownership of all production. So, I think we have the view that after the private employer the state is the second worst employer. We want a much more democratic labour market in which democracy, if I may say so, also applies within, i.e. when we appear at our workplace. Today, it is in principle the case that when we show up at work even though we say that we live in a democracy there is a sign outside, an invisible sign that says: Here, democracy stops, within the boss decides. We would very much like to develop it, and fortunately there are very exciting developments going on in our socio-economic sector. There are plenty of young entrepreneurs today who want to create democratic jobs, and we actually see in Europe and in the world that there is a huge increase in the number of cooperatives and other jobs where employees have influence, and they are much more viable and stable than the old-fashioned private-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022140426	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022140441	We have to go back to 2012. In 2012, the government, which then consisted of the Social Democrats, the Radicals and the SF, set up a Productivity Commission. The task of the Productivity Commission was, inter alia, to: to look at how the public sector could become more productive. It was well over a year, so the Productivity Commission played out that the public sector under one could be approx. 10% less expensive, but still deliver the same product if only those units in the public sector which are less productive learned from the units which are So, if for example. As long as the less skilled municipalities learn from the skilled municipalities, everything could be produced much cheaper or more concrete: If all municipalities were as effective as Vejle Municipality, Denmark would be able to save 26 billion. kr. In the Liberal Alliance, we accepted that message with a kissing hand. We worked out, among other things. a 2025 plan that recognised 10%. productivity increase in the public sector: 1%. a year for 10 years. We got a lot to hear about that back then. Especially from the left, but also from the Left and other bourgeois parties, it was said that 1%. productivity increase in the public sector then was completely on the moon. You just couldn't do that. Therefore, great was our joy when we saw that when this government, the Left Government, came into being, not only had one per cent been taken into account. productivity increase in the municipalities, but also 2%. productivity increase in the state and with the new agreement with the regions also 2%. increase in productivity in the regions. So it turned out that we were actually less wild than the new Left Government that came, because we were only counting on 1%. productivity increase. So that's what this Finance Act is all about: an increase in productivity in the public sector. That's a pre-requisite for this Finance Act. And we went to the Liberal Alliance as the only party in the Folketing for election that it could be done. We are pleased that this is now part of the political mainstream and that even the Socialists from the platform have said that they would very much like to make financial legislation on this basis. It's really nice. And that is one of the best things about the Finance Act that the government has put forward. Of course, there are also some things that we do not like very much. We are not in favour of the huge extra savings ^ beyond the productivity gains of research. We are not in favour of that, for example. the countervailing charge on diesel cars must be indexed so that it is higher and higher every year. However, we have the feeling of a budget law that we will try to negotiate out some of what we do not like, and with other things we must also accept that if you want something implemented and you want other parties to help you implement it, you must also help the other parties to implement their policy. And if afterwards you can look at the overall picture of a finance bill and say that overall it got better as a result of this Finance Act there was something going in the wrong direction, but there was more going in the right direction. We have several things that we would like to do something about in this Finance Act, but I would like to mention three things here from the platform today: the first is the registration tax on cars. It should all be seen in this context that we think that the citizens of Denmark should have the opportunity to live their lives in a better way, in a freer way. One of the places where citizens are really bothered by public Denmark is by the high registration fee on cars. Most people, or very many people, do not need a car until they have children. When you have children, you know you have to drive to and from care, you have to bring a stroller and a stroller in the car, you have to go to work and you have to shop on the way home and you have to pick up children. And it all gets very complicated without a car. But the family car in Denmark is heavily taxed. While it is relatively cheap for people who do not have such a lot of space to buy a small microcar, a Volkswagen UP or a SEAT or a Skoda • the cars that we know and that drive so many of, because there is only a small registration fee on them • it is very, very difficult, however, as soon as you want to get a station wagon with space for everything. An example that could do something about it: Let's take a Volvo V70, more easily used, for DKK 450,000. If we lowered the top rate of the registration fee from 180 to 105 percent, this car would reach DKK 450,000. Come down and cost 370,000 kroner. It would be a tremendous relief for families to be able to buy a car with space for the whole family, perhaps even the dog, without having to be ruined by the world's highest registration fee. Because we have the world's most expensive cars in Denmark. No one in the world pays more for their cars than the Danes. We want to do something about that. It is also very cheap. Calculations from the Ministry of Taxation have shown that the first percentages of registration fees are reduced by 95 per cent. It is self-financing because people go out and buy a larger car where there is more VAT and where, moreover, there is more tax at a lower rate. So why not help the Danes in this way when we know that it is almost self-financing? Another treasure that hits families in Denmark hard is the reason. Here, too, we have to go a little back in history, because back in 2002, the then bourgeois government introduced a tax freeze on the property value tax. However, only a tax ceiling was introduced for the land debt. The root cause may increase, but not by more than 7%. a year. This has led to a huge distortion between housing, where the land represents a large part of the property value, and housing, where the land represents only a small part of the property value. Two examples: A house in Copenhagen and a house in Løgumkloster in Tønder Municipality. Both houses cost 1.5 million. kr., because this house in Copenhagen lies right up Jyllingevej and on a wedge ground inside between Jyllingevej and S-trainsbane. That is why it costs only 1.5 million. kr. The annual tax on such a house in Copenhagen is 32,000 DKK. for a 55 m2 gas concrete housing located between Jyllingevej and the S-train track. Similarly, if you take a house in Løgumkloster, you can get a modern wooden house from 2002, as far as I remember, of over 200 m2 with a 800 m2 of land, also for 1.5 million. kr. It is only taxed at DKK 12,000. a year. Well, the house for 1.5 million. kr. in Copenhagen is taxed at 32,000 DKK, and the house at 1.5 million. kr. in Tønder is taxed at DKK 12,000. a year. What is the reasonableness of that? Why is it reasonable that the person who can afford to pay for a house of 1.5 million? kr. in Copenhagen, must pay two and a half times as much in property tax as the person who can afford to buy a house for 1.5 million. kr. In the City of Tønder? Why is that fair? That is not fair, and that imbalance was not there until 2002. This is the result of having frozen the property value tax firmly, but has caused the land tax to rise explosively. Another example: A house in Hvidovre and an apartment in Hvidovre cost both 2 million. kr., but the house is about to be taxed twice as hard as the apartment doubles because you buy a house for 2 million. kr. instead of buying an apartment for 2 million. kr. What is the reasonableness of that? The person who can afford to buy a $2 million house. kr. in Hvidovre, does not have a significantly higher income than the person who can afford to buy an apartment for 2 million. kr. in Hvidovre. Again, it is the result of the imbalance that has arisen because of the freezing of the property value tax but the increase in the land tax. That is why we have set aside money in our draft budget to freeze the ground debt so that at least the problem does not get bigger while we think about what we need to do to eliminate the imbalance that has already arisen. A third point I would like to talk about today and which we would like to address is the free schools. The free schools are having a hard time these years. They were put down in the switching rate, i.e. the subsidy you get as a percentage of what a public school costs. That's where they were put down from 75%. ed 71 per cent. by the Recovery Agreement of May 2010. We want to raise that amount again. We want the 71 per cent. Preferably 80%, but 72%. is better than 71 per cent, and 73 per cent. is better than 72%, as much as possible. These were basically some of the things in the financial law negotiations that we are concerned with, and my time has now elapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141459	The first person to have a question for the rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141504	Forgive us for looking a little confused just now, but I think there are some problems with the loudspeaker system, because it sounded quite short, as if the rapporteur said fishing quotas and not free schools, and that made no sense at all, regrettable. But that's not what I want to ask. In addition to being the financial rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Ole Birk Olesen also chairman of the Finance Committee. Therefore, first of all, I would like to ask Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen to confirm that it is the case that since the financial statement which came in August, an upward adjustment has been made to the expected real growth in the coming years from 0.6%. to 0.7 per cent. Then, of course, I am well aware that the Liberal Alliance is hardly prepared, if I may say so, to invest all that money in increasing welfare and public costs, and therefore also the natural follow-up question: how does Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said that the Liberal Alliance would prioritize an increased room for manoeuvre in the coming years in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141612	It is true that this adjustment has been made, but it has no effect for 2016, which is the Finance Act that we are discussing here today. It only has effect in the years after that. How do we want to use the automatic room for manoeuvre that comes in the treasury, in the public purses, because there is growth in the economy? We have therefore made it clear that we think the public sector in Denmark is large enough. It is actually the world's most expensive public sector and it does not have to be more expensive. So every time more money comes into the treasury, we want to use that money and spend that money to ease the tax burden on citizens, because the tax burden is also the world's biggest. No one in the world pays higher taxes than the Danes. After all, there are income tax, VAT, excise duties, registration taxes, property taxes, corporate taxes and all sorts of things in Denmark, and together this means that the Danes pay the world's highest taxes. So we want to spend the money to make the taxes lower.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141712	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141713	Thank you for a nice direct and very clear answer. I have no doubt about that, and perhaps I was not in advance either, that the Liberal Alliance primarily wants to use the increased growth we estimated that there would be room for real growth of 0.6%, but this suggests that from 2017 onwards it will be 0.7 percent. I have so little doubt as to the extent to which the Liberal Alliance imagines that it can be in harmony with the DF of at least an expected partner of the agreement, one must understand the wishes of the Finance Act, namely a desire for increased growth. Now there is a little uncertainty as to how much DF really wants this supposed growth to be, but I have also heard a figure called 0.8% in today's debate. So, for the sake of good order, I should just like to ask the rapporteur to consider whether he believes that agreement can be reached on this point between the DF and the Liberal Alliance, not for 2016, but for 2017 and beyond.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141820	After all, we do not agree with the Danish People's Party as regards the wishes that we have for the Finance Act when we enter into negotiations. They want one with the money, namely that it should be used primarily in the public sector, and we want another: the money should be used to relieve the tax burden on citizens and businesses. But that does not mean that we can agree on some kind of compromise, and a compromise would seem to mean that some of the money is going to increase public spending and that some of the money is going to ease the tax burden on citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141855	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022141858	Thank you, President. I have a question about the financial bill in which the government, in other words the Left, is proposing to remove or at least cut back on a research centre which is researching hormone disruptors. The purpose of this center was to gain a greater insight into what substances in our environment are exposing us to dangers, for example. reduces our reproductive capacity. I do not know whether the rapporteur has that problem, but it is certainly a major problem among a great many Danes that we have a problem with our reproductive capacity because of the endocrine disruptors. I know that the Liberal Alliance is very concerned about freedom. Is it not the case that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections? As consumers must have a real freedom to choose between different products, is it essential for us to actually know what substances are in those products and what the consequences are for us as consumers? And that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur almost guess: will the rapporteur's party fight for these funds to be retained so that we can continue this centre and gain more knowledge about these very dangerous substances in the products we buy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142005	There are two main savings on research in the Finance Act. One is the re-priority contribution that the world of research, like other sectors of the public sector, must also contribute to making the public sector cheaper and more efficient. We are in favour of this. Then there is a much greater saving, as far as I remember, on 1.4 billion. kr. That is not the policy of the Liberal Alliance. We went to the polls for the use of uha, it's about to be some time since 1 billion more, as far as I remember, on free research in Denmark. And there is also a cut in free research in that extra saving on research. That is not our policy, so that is why we are going to the financial law negotiations with the wish that the research savings should not be implemented. I do not know exactly what the centre for research into sex hormones and the strain on our reproductive capacity is under, but it might sound like it is below what we do not want to save.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142113	Sir. Pelle Dragsted. I think we should perhaps leave that part to our health rapporteurs when they are in the Chamber. I'm sure they have more knowledge of that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142126	But now it's part of the financial act, and that's why I'm asking about it. It is therefore not part of the saving in research savings, it is a specific, targeted appropriation, which, as part of the health agreement, was actually set aside in last year's Finance Act and which the government then envisages will fall, as well as saving 45 million. kr., I guess it's in maternity wards and other areas of health. I do not know what the Liberal Alliance thinks of this, but in concrete terms, the government's initiative is to cut this appropriation for the hormone disrupting research centre. It is not in the research negotiations, but it is in the government's financial bill itself as one of the cuttings in the green area. So that is actually why I am asking: is this something that the Liberal Alliance might want to go in and strike a blow for so that that research can continue so that we can have the knowledge as consumers and thus the freedom to choose?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142215	I will have to take a closer look at this. I understand that this is an authorisation which has had an expiry date and that the expiry date has now been reached perhaps. There is also the possibility of achieving what was to be achieved with that research, and that is why the funding does not continue. But I have to get into that area before I can answer the question properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142240	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142249	Thank you. Now we got a little more words about what the Liberal Alliance wants, and free research was then highlighted. I would like to shift the focus on technology developments, which the Liberal Alliance mentioned at the opening debate here in the Danish Parliament. In this context, it is appropriate to deal with the financial bill that is now being proposed, when the part of research and development called EUDP funds is proposed to be cut from 385 million. kr. to 53 million kr. There is an annual evaluation of what the funds are used for. It has just come for the projects that have been supported in 2014, and I think that the overall evaluation shows that, in this way, it is helping to launch something that is growing bigger and becoming self-supporting. One of the good projects is that a large solar collector project has been supported in Queenlund. Since then, two plants have been set up without aid, in which it has been financed after the technological development of the first project where there was aid. So I think this is an excellent example of how sometimes start-up phases are needed to support sustainable development. I would like to know what the position of the Liberal Alliance is to help ensure that these EUDP funds can continue at the current level.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142412	I am aware that this is also part of the research funds which, according to our programme, should not be spared. But those very specific questions about research in a financial law that is so thick, I would actually like to refer to our research rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl. After all, there are also negotiations in the field of research, where we have Henrik Dahl sitting and ensuring that there are no savings that we cannot support, or at least only reluctantly support. So I would like to call for Mr. Henrik Dahl about this kind of thing. I have more to do with the superior financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142450	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142453	It sounds good to me that the Liberal Alliance is going to help support this technology development that needs to continue. With regard to free research, it is very good that you have someone who researches without knowing what they are looking for and who suddenly finds something brilliant. It happens sometimes that there are Danish researchers who do. There are, for example: recently came a breakthrough in relation to cancer research, where it is a little coincidence that suddenly decides to move forward. But here we are talking about research funds, where you have players in Denmark who are in the field of energy technology and who see where there is a need for little support to further develop solutions that can be implemented in Denmark and that can be part of the energy technology which is a major part of our exports of 70 billion. kr. I think it is essential that the entire parliamentary group of the Liberal Alliance is aware that these are resources that are important to protect and that the Minister of Finance, as in some circles, is called the Green Butcher, who has put us in a position to cut down 2 billion on the green area, cannot implement it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142558	The Liberal Alliance fully agrees with the general considerations that we in Denmark are winning from having a free research and sufficient resources for a free research where things can develop and new ideas can be thought about. So it seems for a rare time that there is some agreement between Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance that makes me a little uncomfortable, but we take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142623	Then the last question Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142627	We have a welfare society and to finance that welfare society we have a large number of taxes. The principle for many of the taxes is, of course, that the widest shoulders should carry the heaviest load, and one of the taxes that live up to that principle is actually the reason. The fact is that the people who own a dwelling are, from the outset and generally speaking, people who have more money than people who do not own a dwelling. We can see this in various statistics. So does the opposition to the fundamental guilt of the Liberal Alliance really stem from the fact that the Liberal Alliance would prefer to have a tax system where it was the strongest shoulders that carried the slightest load?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142717	I am very pleased about that question, because it gives me the opportunity to clear up a huge misunderstanding on the part of Mr Beazley. Rune Lund. First of all, on the Liberal Alliance: the Liberal Alliance is in favour of charging taxes according to people's tax capacity. That means, for example, that we are going to do something about it. MEPs call for a 40% income tax rate to be applied. of all income exceeding DKK 7,000. a month. If you have 1 million. kr. over that, you pay 40%. of 1 million kr. If you only have 100,000 kroner. over that, you pay 40%. of DKK 100,000. It is a system in which the widest shoulders carry the heaviest burdens. The root cause is by no means a treasure that hits them with the widest shoulders. As the two examples I mentioned to the whole parliament show, it is not the case that because you can afford to buy a house of 1.5 million. kr. In Copenhagen, you have two and a half times as much money as if you can afford to buy a house of 1.5 million. kr. in Tønder. Where would the extra income come from? Is it Rune Lund's performance that people in Tønder buy a house for 1.5 million? kr., has much less money to do well with than people in Copenhagen who buy a house of 1.5 million. kr., why those who buy a house in Copenhagen have to pay two and a half times more in total property taxes than those who buy a house in Tønder? Is that sir? Rune Lund's idea that this is the way it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142831	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142832	But Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was also kind enough to explain to us why the bias has come. It is, of course, because a ceiling has been set on tax payments in relation to the property value tax. One might ask: why, then, should we begin to reduce the ground debt when we have already reduced the tax on the part of the property value tax paid to the State? That is also what the rapporteur said. In the Enhedslisten we have it that we can see that there is a problem in relation to the root cause, because in some places the root cause has increased more than the general trend in prices and wages. There we say that we do not want to reduce the basic debt in general, because the basic debt is a tax where the broadest shoulders carry the heaviest load, but that we want to see whether we can freeze the ground debt for low-income families. So we recognise that there is a problem in some places, but we will not help in general just to remove the ground blame, because it is actually a solidarity tax which finances the welfare society of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022142936	All parties in the Folketing should be able to agree on this: a house of 1.5 million. kr. in Copenhagen should not be taxed two and a half times as hard as a house to 1.5 million. kr. in Tønder. That is why we need to set up a new property tax system, so that we have 1.5 million homes. kr. Throughout the country is taxed approximately in the same way, considering that those who can afford a house in Copenhagen have no more money than those who can afford a house in Tønder. If we then do not want those in Tønder to pay more in property tax and we do not want that we must accept that it is they in Copenhagen who have to pay less, and if Mr. Rune Lund may agree with me that the taxation of houses to 1.5 million. kr. Should be the same everywhere, then sir. Rune Lund answers whether what he wants is that everyone has to pay as much as those in Copenhagen, or whether he wants them in Copenhagen to pay just as little as those in Tønder.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022143031	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022143050	Thank you. Unfortunately, the government's draft Finance Bill does not look like a financial bill that the alternative can support, at least not in its present form. This is perhaps not the greatest surprise of Danish history either, since most people know very well that the alternative and the left are two very different parties with very different priorities. For example: The alternative was to choose on the vision of a triple bottom line, where the economic, social and environmental bottom line must be balanced. We went to the elections for a green transition, a stronger entrepreneurship society and a better balance between work and family life. On the other hand, the Left went to the choice of zero growth, on limited immigration, on lower social benefits, on relaxing environmental requirements for agriculture and on uncritical tax cuts for business. Against this background, it is hardly a shock to the Minister for Finance that the alternative is sceptical about the draft budget that we are discussing here today. This scepticism was quite a premonition to us shortly after the elections, because the keys to the Prime Minister's Office were barely left in the hands of the Prime Minister before he had used them to shut down the Ministry of the Environment and, by the way, foresaw cuts in climate, environment and nature. We can now read the results of these reports in black and white, although most of the government's draft budget seems to be black. It is a proposal in which many things pop into our eyes, not least the green cuts. Nature Plan Denmark loses 30 million. kr. in 2016 and 70 million; kr. in 2018. The environmental technology development programme will be cut by 65 million. kr. The green fire-soul pool will be removed and environmental protection efforts will be cut by 125 million. kr. In addition, the government will spend 240 million. kr. On rolling NO x For a green entrepreneur's party as the alternative, I guess it's almost self-evident that it's not exactly such a finance bill we're dreaming of. We want to increase green investment, both when we talk about investment in green economies and technologies, but also when we talk about green investments in the form of more natural forest, greater biodiversity and more organic food. Unfortunately, the green cuts were as feared as they were expected. On the other hand, something that was not expected, at least not with us, was the cuts in entrepreneurship and green business. I am speaking here, among other things. that the government will halve the Growth Fund, that it will abolish the Conversion Fund and, in addition, will cut the Innovation Fund by 650 million. kr. We are very much opposed to these cuts because we believe that Denmark will need a stronger entrepreneurship culture to live on our creative, innovative and sustainable ideas and solutions in the future. In fact, we had hoped that the government would share that analysis, and it is our hope that, in time, entrepreneurship could become a political focus area that the government would like to prioritise. If that happens, we would be happy to talk about how to get more entrepreneurs and create better framework conditions. We propose, among other things: micro-grants to young entrepreneurs, and to increase the right of private individuals to deduct in the case of investments in new entrepreneurial enterprises, with which Sweden has good experience. Another surprising element in the draft budget was the dramatic savings in education. The education sector has already been severely affected by some reforms in recent years and the announced cuts of 800 million are being implemented. kr., it is of course likely to have appreciable consequences throughout the education system. For example: There is a risk that educational institutions, especially in the outermost regions, will have to close down, that vocational training will be reduced and that, in general, there will be more uniformity in training, because in many places we will have to invest in the safe and predictable. And now that everyone is gradually agreeing that Denmark will need innovative and entrepreneurial citizens and entrepreneurs in the future, it does not make sense for us to cut by 800 million. kr. in education and 1.4 billion in education and training. kr. in research, since it is precisely investments that should help to develop the creative abilities of young people. The alternative should therefore encourage the government to roll back the announced savings in the field of education. We believe that this is a bad social and economic business for Denmark. Moreover, it should also be able to reverse the progress reform, as it both hampers the quality of education and entrepreneurship among students. Now that we are on the calls, the Left could not also roll the savings of 2.3 billion. kr. the development aid back? It is, after all, serious cuts that affect the poor countries of Africa in particular. Among other things: bilateral aid falls significantly from DKK 21⁄2 billion. in 2015 to EUR 660 million; kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms At the same time, we find it very difficult to see how the cuts in development aid are in line with the UN's new sustainability objective of eradicating global poverty, which the Prime Minister has just adopted, but we may be able to get an answer on another day. In addition to the financial bill, we are also discussing two other proposals today, L 2 and L 3, which are about the government wanting to impose tighter governance on the municipalities. The alternative is not against all kinds of steering tools, but we are very much opposed to the way in which the expenditure ceiling is arranged, because it is too inflexible. Like the Productivity Commission, we believe that the possibility for municipalities to transfer funds from year to year is far too limited. We want the municipalities and the public authorities to have the opportunity to make longer-term investments in sustainable measures, and that is why it is a problem that today we are at risk of spending money on short-term consumption rather than on long-term and sustainable investments because of the current rules. I would also like to say that the alternative shares the concern about the 86 per cent. by the municipalities, who say that the re-priority contribution will reduce the level of service in municipal offers, because by 2019 the municipalities will lose 7 billion. kr. In general terms, I would like to make it clear that the alternative is not in favour of moving more power from local level to central level. We lack greater respect for local self-government and are therefore not in favour of centralisation, which the government is advocating with the re-priority contribution, but rather would like to push the development in the very opposite direction. Overall, we also lack, from both a national and a global perspective, a greater understanding by the government of the need for a better balance between the economic, social and environmental bottom line, so that growth and economic progress do not take place at the expense of people and the environment. A very concrete wish from us is that we would very much like the government to seize the opportunity to invest in the green transition. We are happy to admit that the green transition is first and foremost crucial for the environmental bottom line, that is to say for our planet and therefore also for the people on it, but it does not alter the fact that the green transition is undoubtedly also important for the economic bottom line if you turn on the long light and look a little further into the future. It is only 4 months since 49 researchers wrote in Politiken that Denmark has to invest more in climate and environment for Denmark's future competitiveness, economy and employment. The research unit Citi GPS, which belongs to one of the world's largest banks, Citigroup, has also pointed out in a 122-page report that it is best to increase green investment now. Of course, they have done so from an economic point of view, as they are their methods. But that only reinforces the argument that we should speed up the green transition now rather than put the brakes on. Against this background, for the sake of both the economic and the environmental bottom line, we would like to call on the government to give priority to the green area. Specifically, the alternative proposes earmarking much more of business support for sustainable businesses and making greater efforts to promote green economies, for example. more money for ecology, renewable energy and green energy technology. Of course, we would also like to drop research and business support and investment for the extraction and use of fossil fuels. That request has been made and I would therefore like to conclude by thanking you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022143853	Thank you. There's a question, and it's from Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022143858	Thank you. After all, an agreement has been reached today in the area of unemployment benefits, which will probably lead to some disappointment around Denmark, because it was intended to restore some of the security that employees lost in the agreement in 2010. That deal cut 3 billion. kr. away from the area, and now the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Social Democrats have been so generous that they have found 300 million. kr. This, of course, has the consequence of having a totally inadequate solution. I would not call it a solution at all, but we will have a situation in which employees will still live away with enormous insecurity. It is harmful to our labour market, it is harmful to our flexicurity model and, above all, it is of course detrimental to families' lives to have to go with that insecurity. I have not yet heard where the alternative is in relation to the agreement reached, and I would just like to hear the rapporteur's reflections on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144003	Thank you. What we have been out to say about that agreement is that we think that, in general, the time should have been used now to rethink the benefit system. We would like to see the unemployment benefit system reversed in order to show much more confidence, to remove the bureaucracy, the control and stigmatisation that have been of the unemployed, and instead to say that by exercising confidence, motivation and so on. You get the job done. We know that this is a hugely inefficient and expensive system, and that there would have been a lot of money available, plus that the way of talking about the unemployed could be turned in a far, far more positive direction. So we are critical of the agreement, but I must hurry to say that we were not invited to the negotiations either. I also think that the part about caring days just signals again that we are using the stick method instead of showing confidence in getting people into the labour market. Then we also think that the agreement should have addressed the whole idea of atypical employment, as there will be much more atypical jobs in the future, and neither does the agreement take into account freelancers, entrepreneurs, self-employed people, etc. I have not succeeded in finding out whether the more flexible recovery has been eliminated in the agreement, but if it has not been removed, what I have understood is the only positive thing about the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144123	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144124	Thank you for the clear message. I'd like to hear about something else, too. The alternative has, like, gone to the polls on this new political culture. How does the alternative experience the course that has been around the daily allowance, where three parties, Denmark's three largest parties, which clearly promised before the elections that they would not lower the daily allowance level, and now, not even six months later, go in and lower the daily allowance level? Now the alternative has gone to the polls on this very thing with a new kind of policy and confidence in the Danes, so what does the rapporteur think the consequence of such a course is for confidence in the politicians in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144205	I think I would rather answer the question in a different way than directly. I would say that, as I understand the parliamentary system, it is, after all, a question of finding a majority. What I am just wondering here is that you are not trying to find as broad a majority as possible. So I would like to reply in this way that I think it is a pity that an agreement has been reached which does not involve much, far more parties. In this way, all the parties in this Parliament have not all been called for negotiations on this allowance agreement, because I do not think that increases the confidence of the people and certainly not out there with the unemployed, and I think that is really, really a pity. However, I do not think that I should stand here and judge each party in relation to the electorate who voted for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144254	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144256	I would like to sign for the speech, I think there were many exciting elements in it, in particular about entrepreneurs and deductions and such things. This is something which I think is exciting and which I would like to discuss in more detail with the Alternative. I understand that this may not lead to the conclusion of an overall financial agreement, but nevertheless I think we should find the corners where we can reach each other, so that it might be one of the places; tax relief is always something that concerns us. I would like to ask you more specifically about some of what the alternative has also done in relation to whether it is still within the scope of the Alternative's fiscal policy or policy at all, namely the proposal that these local currencies should be introduced in different regions of the country. Is it still part of the policy and can the rapporteur perhaps clarify that proposal a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144346	Yes, we still have it away as an idea that it might be interesting to try to make some experiments with local currencies. Now I am not the one who has taken note of that proposal, but as I remember it, it is among other things. In England, it has been experimented with and where it turns out that it promotes growth in local communities, it strengthens cohesion in local communities, it increases local purchasing, etc. So it's with the thought you've done it. So to experiment with that we are still really interested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144415	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144417	Well, thank you. Just so I understand: does this mean that these local currencies will have to replace the Danish kroner? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144445	Again, if you are going to go into detail there, you have to talk to our business rapporteur. But as I remember and understand that proposal, it is about introducing local currencies; you do not abolish the national crown on the basis of it, but you agree in a local community to use a local currency to promote the purchase of local goods, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144506	Let me just say that I do not know whether you are covered by cases where you can normally say "man" or whether that was a direct charge. But otherwise we don't address each other directly here. It looks like it was the last question. Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022144531	Thank you very much. A large part of today's debate has been about how much room we have for manoeuvre, how much money we have to do well with, and let me just make it clear straight away that, as far as the economic framework that the government is setting up in next year's Finance Act is concerned, the Radical Left is in fact in agreement with it. We believe that we should stick to the responsible line; no bills should be passed on to the next generation. We must steer safely through the crisis that is now behind us, but where we still feel the repercussions. That is why I want to concentrate today on how we give priority to the resources available within the framework proposed by the government. There is no doubt that we in the Radical Left disagree very much with the priorities of the government. In fact, it is consistently chosen to cut back on everything that points forward to the next generation... all the investments in the future to ensure that Denmark continues to develop and be the lovely country in which we all enjoy living. You break with the ambition that we can deliver a Denmark to our children who are better than what we got. There are cuts in kindergartens and crèches, day care centres, compared with what the previous government proposed. You cut down on the pedagogic field. Education and research are being cut back, even without warning during the election campaign. We are cutting down on the whole of the green transition, which has already been mentioned by several rapporteurs, and we are trying to set it up as if it is a choice between being environmentally responsible or financially responsible, despite the fact that tens of thousands of private Danish jobs have been created, not least in the outermost regions, and despite howling and screaming in industry, in the trade union movement, in the rural community council, because this vendetta, which is being created for ideological reasons, is expensive in the green area. We're having a hard time seeing the logic. In addition to the jobs it costs here and now; in addition to what we can lose on exports, which thundered out there in the green area under the previous government, a bill is also passed on here to the next generation. There is a dramatic reduction in the largest pruning since, yes, I think we may have four decades to go back in the Danish development aid before we reach this level, while at the same time hypocritically wanting to help more in the neighbourhood. It's also a bill that you pass on to the next generation. All this is then apologized for some sort of policy of necessity: we have to do so for economic reasons. But that is not the case, because even if we recognise the government's economic framework, as we do in the Radical Left, one could choose, for example. not to spend money paying wealthy elderly people to get their homes cleaned up, get cleaning, etc. That is what you choose to spend the money on instead of investing in the future. So it is a clear choice here between investments in the future and, I would say, blindfolded to pay Danes for something they will do in advance. It makes no sense in a radical optics. Even if you buy the logic of the Left in this Finance Act, some things are simply not right. We want to do something for rural areas. Thank you, we very much agree with this in the Radical Left, and we also recognise that there are tactics in the Finance Act that carry in that direction. It is indisputable, then, that the forced relocation of 3,900 state jobs at least in the short term will provide some jobs in rural areas. But what will it do if, at the same time, we cut down on educational institutions, on private green jobs and on counselling where rural development can be fostered? Public jobs are good, but private jobs are very important in terms of creating rural development and life. So if, with one hand, you move out public jobs, but with the other hand you cut down on both educational institutions and green conversions, that does not make sense. Let me give you one example. One of the major challenges facing rural areas is to find housing and, in this context, warmth is a major issue. We all know about the barfields and high heating bills out there. At present, several rural municipalities are trying to create cheaper district heating for their residents. They do so through geothermal, they do so by introducing heat pumps that can run on cheap electricity from wind, and this will provide better framework conditions for rural housing. These are initiatives which, with just one blow, are being ironed out by the Finance Act, although there is a huge economic perspective and, by the way, also a socio-economic perspective, not only for rural areas, but for the whole of society. This is the kind of logic we simply do not understand, and we hope that on a very good day, if the Minister of Finance wanted to save our day, it might be that it all went a little fast. It's been quick, and that's fair enough. One has come into being as a government, one has to get started quickly, and then one takes whole paragraphs at a time, just as it is to achieve, if I may say so, to get the ends to meet in the Finance Act. It could be that the government was ready to perhaps go down the sub-paragraphs once and see if it is all the paragraphs that have been ironed out in this area that really make sense, also from a liberal point of view, where help for self-help has always been better than that with hand-held support. Having said all that, it will be known to the Radical Left that, although we have a vertical disagreement with the priorities, we are buying the overall framework, and we are also ready to do everything we can to draw this financial law in the right direction. That's why we're on the phone if the Minister of Finance needs us. I could have a feeling that the Minister of Finance does. Perhaps he is not doing so at this stage. There is a Blue Finance Act, you can listen to the speeches today, but it could be that there were some ends that couldn't meet anyway. It could also be that we could inspire with some creative thoughts, and we will do what we can to ensure, at least, that part of the funds that will be spent on unconscious support right now could be transferred to investments in the future instead. For us it is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark still invest in the next generation, invest in the Denmark that will come tomorrow, and not only in the Denmark that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145235	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145239	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a speech that has always been well thought out. He is also committed to the things he talks about; I think that is a pleasure. Now I noticed that the rapporteur mentioned that the policy we are putting forward should mean cuts in the area of children, for example, that there should be fewer educators and then I just have to ask quite quietly: since Mr. Martin Lidegaard had government responsibility, how did the development go in relation to the number of educators? I remember that at least at one point there was a promise that there would be 3 000 more educators. Was that promise so fulfilled, or how exactly did the development go in this very central core welfare area under the radical-social-democratic-led government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145327	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145329	I do not know the specific figures for the number of educators in the various municipalities, but what I know is that in the 2016 draft budget we have set aside a three-digit million amount and that we were ready to spend as much as 250 million. kr. to raise the day institutions. It was also in recognition that it has not been done well enough, either under our government or under the previous one. We were ready to lift, but that money has been cut away in the Left Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145354	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145355	No, it must be due to a misunderstanding, because that money has never been there, and therefore they cannot be cut away. We're kind of setting the level that it was when we took over, we're not cutting anything down. But I can then lift the veil that the promise made by the Radical Left that there should be 3 000 more educators was about changed to a figure with a different sign during that period, namely 3 000 educators. So I think it sounds a bit hollow when we are kissed for delivering a level which is unchanged, where at the same time, on the radical side, you have been responsible for delivering a promise of 3,000 educators, which was then changed to a negative figure of 3,000, during the period when you had the guard here in the Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145436	I don't know where sir. Jacob Jensen has the figures from • and, by the way, thanks for the nice opening words • but what I know is that we have set aside 250 million. kr. in our draft budget. And it is true that that money never got a chance to be put into effect because the voters wanted it to be different, but it does not change the fact that we have found funding for them, that we have shown that we would like it and that that is where we would like to give priority. Instead, the government has chosen to prioritize that older people are typically older wealthy We would rather give priority to the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145510	Thank you for that, and the next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145515	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask you a few questions about the allowance, because an allowance agreement has been concluded today. I have dealt with it a little in the past and am not very happy with it, I think. But there is also another development with our unemployment benefit system in these years, which has been mentioned and discussed a little lately, namely that, as a result of, among other things, unemployment benefit benefits are being paid. the tax reform that the rapporteur helped to achieve in 2012 will be lower and lower, so that a benefit recipient in 2023 will actually have lost what is equivalent to a whole month's daily allowance. And it is alone as a result of that agreement. Now I do not know whether the Radicals are involved in the agreement that has been reached today, but I can almost understand that, and that is where we are going to cut further. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur is not at all concerned about the consequences of the fall in the daily allowance coverage and that it will decrease further by 5%. As regards the general trend in wages, it would be so expensive to become unemployed that even short-term unemployment could lead families into an economic situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145618	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145619	The agreement that has been made today is a very gentle agreement which is entirely within what the Commission has made of proposals and which also large parts of the trade union movement can support. For what is meant by a benefit system is not to have a goal of keeping people on unemployment benefits. What is the aim of any unemployment benefit reform is to create a system where people can get a job. The basic difference between Enhedslisten's and the Radical Left's approach to this is, and I fully acknowledge that, it is fair that there should be political differences: what we are concerned with is: how can we link up a benefit system that creates as many jobs as possible for the people who are on unemployment benefits and who make people move from unemployment benefit to work? This requires turning up and down, and there is some of it not always to turn up the daily allowance. That is not necessarily what gets more people into work. It's a balance. Because, of course, people must be able to have a dignified life, and so do I. I think they can do that in Denmark too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145724	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145725	It is true that it has now been many years since the daily allowance was increased. What I am asking is that, through the agreements which, among other things, include: The rapporteur has led the way, has turned down the benefits, so that the difference between what you have in a normal life with a normal wage income and what you end up with when you are so unlucky to lose your job has grown bigger and bigger, and that it will be extremely much bigger up until 2023. No, the difference between the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten is not that Enhedslisten wants people to be on daily allowances. The difference is that we do not have the distrust of people affected by unemployment expressed by the Radical Left here, where we have to turn some buttons. Perhaps you should look at the politicians' own aftermath if you think that having a level of coverage when you lose your job means that you will not seek anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145814	The Radical Left has no kind of mistrust of the people who are unhappy about not having a job. But we have so much respect for those people that we want to create a system that does not make it difficult to get out of it because there are economic incentives that are pulling in the opposite direction. But let us try not to stand and accuse each other of a lot of things one way or the other, and let me try to say this very precisely, for what Mr. Pelle Dragsted asks if we have a decent level of unemployment benefit in Denmark when you get a daily allowance and whether we will continue to have it. And yes, I think we do. It is clear that getting paid can never be as good as getting a job, nor economically, nor should it be intended, because it does not make sense in itself. Because it would be awful if you were caught in a situation where you come on unemployment benefits and where, with the various benefits you are awarded, you suddenly lose money or risk doing so by getting to work, and therefore there must be a difference. We can discuss how big should be, but the important thing must be that it is a dignified level, i.e. whether you can live for it. But there's not the cash benefits I'm most worried about. What I am worried about, and I am seriously concerned about this, is the integration benefit that the government is currently introducing for a very, very large group of Danes, some of whom are in work today, but who are of course at risk of unemployment. That is a cause for concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145937	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022145940	After all, in the draft Finance Act 2016 money comes from a so-called "reprioritisation contribution" 1%. from the municipalities, 2%. from the state and 2%. It is the view of the regions that production can be made more efficient in these areas, so that it is cheaper without getting worse. It then frees up funds that can be used for other purposes in the public sector or to ease the tax burden on citizens. Is this something that the Radical Left considers to be a good principle that should be pursued, or is it something that the Radical Left does not support and believes should be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150021	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150023	We recognise that, of course, there is room for efficiency in the municipalities as well. And we believe that if we could help the municipalities with a considerable simplification of rules and a reform of confidence, which I know is also the concern of the Liberal Alliance and other parties, then we will be able to reap quite, quite large gains, and we believe that this is also necessary if we are to be able to lift the demographic development that is coming. In other words, we are in favour of an increase in public consumption due to demographic developments, but we would like to see it brought about by an increase in efficiency in the public sector itself. There's definitely something to pick up there, too. We did not take part in our budget proposal for a change of priority in the municipalities; we found other ways to do the same, but I would not deny that this is also a way to go, especially if we can combine it with a confidence reform that will enable municipalities to actually reap some efficiency gains or, at least, make it easier for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150122	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150126	Thank you very much for the answer, which is also a very good answer now, Mr President. Morten Østergaard is sitting here. Because when the Liberal Alliance proposed something similar in the election campaign it was actually something completely similar, except that we weren't quite as ambitious, we only believed in 1%. and not 2%. Morten Østergaard, who is sir. Martin Lidegaard's leader, that it was quite crazy that it was scam money that it was all sorts of things. I myself have been in the debates where Mr. Morten Østergaard told me. But now we are over a choice, and now the Left is putting forward the same policy, which is more ambitious, and then the Radical Left also thinks it is a good idea. That's nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150157	I think I said very clearly that it was not a proposal that had grown in our gardens in connection with this financial law. Because we have not taken the side-lined actions that need to be taken in order to actually increase such efficiency. But, of course, efficiency improvements can be made in the public sector. I know that that can be done, and I myself have heard my own leader say that several times and, of course, efficiency improvements need to be made. But the question is: How do you do the smartest thing, and how will you use the room for manoeuvre that you get out of it? And there is a very big difference between the Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150229	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150234	This is in line with what the rapporteur says about the re-priority contribution, where many billions of kroner will be taken, which will mean cuts in the municipalities, which will mean cuts in the citizen's welfare, as the rapporteur himself explains. Is it to be understood that the Radical Left intends to vote against L 2 and L 3, which is of course about the re-priority contribution and the many billions that will be taken from the municipalities in the draft Finance Act that lies?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150255	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150257	No. In other words, we intend to vote in favour of all three legislative proposals submitted by tradition when they come to the Chamber. We are doing this because we made a political agreement this summer, which has been discussed several times during the day, including the Social Democrats, the Left and the Danish People's Party. That agreement is basically about the fact that when the municipalities and the state make an agreement on the economy next year, and they do so every year, it is important that the municipalities know that they can trust the state with which they are negotiating and that they, on the part of the municipalities, are also aware that they have, if I may say so, the right to negotiate, that if not every government that sits there can reach an agreement with the municipalities, the government does not have support for that agreement either. Conversely, if the municipalities make an agreement with the state, these parties have therefore indicated that they are also behind the government in place at all times, so that the municipalities know what they have to count on. I think that is the greatest respect one can show for municipal autonomy. I also think that this gives the greatest transparency, and that means, of course, that, once the current government has reached an agreement, we will vote in favour of that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150402	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150405	But what you hear the National Association of Municipalities say is: A scheme has been set up for 2016, but no scheme has been set up for 2017, 2018 and 2019 in relation to the re-priority contribution. And it is the case that in 2017 2.4 billion will be taken. DKK, in 2018 extra 2.4 billion. kr. and in 2019 an additional 2.4 billion. kr. We're talking about 7 billion. kr. And if the rapporteur feels that this is a stupid way of doing so, i.e. making efficiency by taking billions of dollars from the municipalities, which will mean massive cuts and which will mean thousands of layoffs in the municipal sector, I must admit that I do not quite understand why the rapporteur is going to vote in favour anyway, since the so-called agreement between KL and the government only applies for 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150454	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150457	Well, it is the municipalities themselves that have made the agreement that is now in place, and that is also why we are voting in favour of it. We respect the agreement reached by the municipalities with the state, but I would like to acknowledge Mr. Rune Lund, that it has been a very messy process this year, because the agreement we made to vote for the agreement of the current government with the municipalities at any time was made after the government had negotiated with the municipalities. We'll avoid that next year because we made this deal. And then it has to depend on the negotiations between the municipalities and the government. That's what's the whole philosophy of whether we can support or not. If the municipalities conclude a new agreement with the government on the re-priority contribution, then the Radical Left will support it. If they enter into an agreement without it, then the Radical Left will also support the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150542	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022150552	Thank you for that, President. You can say a lot about this government, but it's been busy. It has been busy winding up, and there are not many areas that have gone by the left's nose. First, the municipalities suffered from the so-called're-priority' contribution, which is actually just cynical savings, and which we are also discussing here today under L 2 and L 3. Then the Iraq Commission, the poverty line and the climate targets were dropped, and now the trip to the Finance Act came. Here too, settlement is the big theme. The savings that the government is proposing will hit across a broad spectrum: climate, public transport, education, research, culture and our children are all affected by the cuts that the government is proposing. And these are short-term savings, which can give a huge backlash in the longer term too. It is by no means an expression of financial responsibility that the government would otherwise like to preach. On the other hand, it is an economic distortion that the housing benefits of the weakest pensioners must be reduced and that aid for the poorest in the world should be rounded down, while the taxes on inheritance and the environment should be relaxed. Now to quote one of today's more popular pop songs, it says: You said the right things, yes And you did it the sweetest way But I saw through you Now you reap what you sowed That's how many voters must feel these months and weeks when you look at what the government said and what it has done afterwards. In the SF, we cannot disagree more with the line taken by the government. In the field of education, the savings announced can have fatal consequences, and I cannot recall at all the image that the government ministers have drawn from the so-called grain-fed education programmes. It's about something misleading. The great savings will go beyond the quality of teaching and it will be a huge weakening of Denmark's competitiveness far into the future. Knowledge is our most important raw material, and by weakening the formation of our young we saw the branch over which we are sitting. So we cannot and must not compete with the Chinese and the Eastern Europeans on the price, and that is why the quality of the Danish labour force is crucial for us to be able to take up the fight and win it on the global labour market. There is investment in education something that is paid back many times in the future. To return to Cisilia's song, which I referred to earlier, it continues: Now I see something in your smile I had missed You made all the beds you sleep in So this finger is not a thumb Now I hear something in your voice I'd overheard You behind in the game you were allowed to run So this finger is not a thumb Out in the world the thumb doesn't go up either because of the government's financial billing. There is a gigantic nick in foreign aid, but we are in the midst of the biggest refugee crisis in recent times, and so it makes no sense to play austerity in the midst of a civil war in Syria and all the other disasters in the world, which the Left apparently chooses not to take into account. Those people must now face up to reality and be aware of the fact that they are taking the emergency aid from people who most need it. In fact, in the SF, we want global solidarity, and we also believe that development aid should be maintained at least at the current level. The money must be distributed to help refugees in the neighbourhood, to poverty-oriented development aid and to climate aid. There is no point in the world's poorest people having to pay for an acute refugee crisis in Europe and for Denmark to have a new government. In the future, new flows of refugees, which are affected by natural disasters, floods and which, due to the drought affecting their vicinity, are going towards Europe and the borders of Denmark, are likely to occur. That is why it is absolutely essential that we invest in environmental and climate aid as well. But what happens on the Danish front? Yes, the Left and the government are suggesting that agriculture causes carte blanche to pollute to the detriment of our children and groundwater, to the detriment of our public health. It has fatal consequences for which our children and grandchildren will pay the price. The world needs a country like Denmark, which has so far taken the lead, and therefore the government's signals are disastrous. In the SF, we want to safeguard the climate and give priority to nature and the environment, and the objective of reducing CO2 must be maintained and translated into concrete policy. We are not in favour of the cuts proposed by the government. Action is needed in all aspects of climate and environmental policy. This also applies to taxes. In SF we are not afraid of charges that are designed wisely. We think it makes sense to have a NO x We think it makes good sense to phase in an advertising tax, and we actually think it makes sense to index the cigarette tax so that it increases in line with prices. In fact, charges must primarily help the climate and public health, but they must also help to finance the cancellation of the savings made by the government in the fields of education, development aid, children and climate. Yes, unfortunately, the list is far too long to read out today. As far as funding is concerned, I think it is time for the government and the Minister for Finance to put their cards on the table, because it has been shown that the economy is not as terrible as the Minister for Finance has preached. On the other hand, savings will be made to allow tax relief to be distributed in the spring to the richest at the expense of welfare. The Minister of Finance has called it bravely I would rather call it theft in broad daylight. In fact, in the SF we have proposals for funding, which is why I would also like to say to the Minister of Finance today that, if we are going to have real negotiations, we will of course be here. I would also like to address another point which basically happened here during the lunch break, because the Daily Money Commission has, after all, come up with a proposal which, despite the limited and bound mandate that one had, actually had some interesting elements, but was far from being good enough. It was then decided to close here during the lunch break with an agreement between the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Left. I would say that this is an agreement which means that the dog is ultimately fed with its own tail, because it is the unemployed, those who have now paid the price, who have to pay an extra price again to find some marginal improvements around it. I simply do not think that is good enough, and I also believe that the parties that have concluded an agreement had promised much more in the election campaign that is not many months away. But unfortunately that does not stop here, because the inequality in Danish society will not only increase with the welfare deterioration that the government is calling for. Also when you look at the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit, you see that the government here is targeting those who have the very least and who do not exactly live on the green branch of life. These are real people and there can be a great many reasons why they are not in work or, unfortunately, were born in the midst of a civil war. These are people who turn and turn every penny to make life stick together. They must now dig even deeper into already empty pockets. We do not buy it in the SF, and there is absolutely no reason to believe that in this way they should get to work when there is no work to be done. We are witnessing an unbridled chasing of the weakest in society, the unemployed, the refugees. In the SF we want to fight for the groups that need it and, despite the gap between the blue parties, the government and us, we are ready to sit down at the negotiating table, but we have to say that with what the Minister of Finance has presented, there is a long, long way to go. However, there are elements that have given rise to agreements. This applies, among other things, to the housing job scheme. I think this is a step forward, even if it is a small corner in a black area in the environmental field. But then I would like to point out to the Minister of Finance today that there are, after all, opportunities for us to dance around the Finance Act if the Minister of Finance chooses to bid for it. With these words, I must say to the Minister of Finance that we are ready for the dance, but of course that also requires us to be invited, which did not happen here during the lunch break.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151435	Thank you. Well, it's very disturbing that you can't just see how long you've been talking. We'll have to get that right if we can. There's been a lot of trouble with the electronic today. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151448	Thank you. After all, this benefit agreement has been concluded today, and I am pleased that the rapporteur's party, like the Enhedslisten, is also very critical of the result that has been achieved. And we must therefore work together in the future to ensure that this does not end, but only becomes a small intermezzo in the gradually long struggle that we have had to secure for Danish employees, so that the fear of losing your job should not become even greater than it already is. In this context, I would just like to ask the same question that I asked the previous rapporteur about, namely the dismantling of the benefit system. For SF also contributed to the adoption of a tax agreement in 2012, which, together with the rate-pooling regulation, has the consequence that a beneficiary loses a whole month's benefit, compared to what else has been achieved, i.e. that the distance between pay and unemployment benefit is reduced. I just want to know whether the rapporteur agrees that it is a major problem that we have a daily allowance which has only gone in one direction and whether he agrees with the radical rapporteur who thought that even then we will have a really fine allowance in Denmark, although for a majority of employees it is more than 50%. of one's income, one loses by unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151609	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151612	Well, I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that there are, of course, some challenges in the tax agreement that was made in the summer of 2012. Because it must be compared with a number of other elements that we are seeing today, both the daily allowance agreement for 2010, but also the benefit agreement, which is now to be called the daily allowance agreement for 2015, and which, of course, creates some challenges. That is why we also need to look at how to make it easier to reclaim. That was the wish we had from the SF, also in the daily allowance negotiations we hoped there would be. This has not been the case; an agreement has basically been shut down in the toilets in a hurry; at least that is what has been felt. But we also need to recognise that it is also a question of creating jobs. I think the Enhedslisten and the SF agree on this, which means that we need to create jobs, and we can do so, among other things. in the green area, where the government is unfortunately also cutting down. So there is a need to create security in relation to the people who are unemployed, but there is also a need to focus on creating new jobs so that they can re-enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151709	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151713	Well, I don't think anyone in the Folketing disagrees with that. The only question is whether you believe that there will be jobs by cutting the benefits of the unemployed, which is a widespread view in here, i.e. that a lot of jobs will suddenly arise which people can seek because they have received a lower benefit. I would like to ask you something else and also sign for the answer. This is about the legislative proposals on a ceiling on expenditure, namely L 2 and L 3, which we are also discussing today, which has been debated a great deal and which, if adopted, will have the consequence that the municipalities will have to cut by 7 billion. kr. with the enormous consequences it will have for our well-being. I just want to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that the Socialist People's Party does not, of course, support L 2 and L 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151751	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151754	Well, I very much agree that this is about creating jobs just to take the first part of it. I also agree that we should be very careful to cut down on our performance system. In relation to L 2 and L 3, I have already announced earlier today that the SF will be tabling an amendment precisely to get rid of this re-prioritisation contribution. If we can get away with removing the re-prioritisation contribution, we would like to join in voting for L 2 and L 3, but that is also why we are tabling an amendment. At this stage, we are not voting for the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151820	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the last question. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, and since unfortunately this system has been a little messy, I stand up, one minute before the speaking time for the long speech by the rapporteur is finished, and ten seconds before the short remarks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022151842	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party is generally positive about the government's draft budget. It is marginally moving in the right direction with tax incentives that make things a little better for businesses and a little better for society. But it does not address the challenges that Danish society really faces: that we have a cost level in Denmark that is much higher than in comparable countries; that we work less in Denmark than they do in comparable countries; that innovation is not very strong in Denmark; that we do not prioritise development and proper business conditions high enough in Denmark. So it is such a good technician finance law that has been presented here and that everything else equal is on the plus side, but thus does not make Denmark richer, stronger and better to live in. These are proposals that the Left has put forward. I think it is important to take this into account as a basis for the debate. It is the proposal by the Left for revenue, and it is the proposal by the Left for expenditure. Therefore, it is also important in such a debate here to address what the eight other parties of the Folketing think about the revenue and expenditure of the proposal and the overall framework. I would like to start by saying that we in the Conservative People's Party are clearly expecting us to be included in a financial law agreement. We can see in the picture presented here by the government, but some changes are needed in the course of the process that we are about to embark on. If we look at things like this more forward-looking, we think that as a government we have a responsibility to make Denmark stronger and better equipped for the global challenges that are there. We live in a completely different world now that we are out competing in a market and where we cannot just shut ourselves up about ourselves. And that is why it is also important that we ensure that business has better conditions. So our focus is to look at: How can we ensure that more investment is made in Danish companies? How can we ensure that the families get some more money left over and that we are also allowed to make an extra effort? So that is why we are looking at how we, for example. It will ease excise duties and ease administrative burdens and regulations for business, and how we will also make it easier to invest in companies by e.g.: to look at a general tax exemption for employee shares, so that employees are also involved in companies. We must also ensure that the conditions for growth in society are there. That is why we do not agree with the government on the massive savings that have been made in the whole area of education and research. We simply do not agree with that. Of course, we have to make a living by becoming smarter, but we also have to make a living by innovation, by producing and by creating new things at all. So when you go in and save a lot of money in universities, research efforts and vocational training, that is the wrong way to go. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. In other words, going in and saving on the EUDP will reduce it by just over 200 million. kr. The government does not have a majority in favour of this, together with the Conservative People's Party. So we need to get the programmes back, and we need to look at in depth where we can make an additional research effort, an additional training effort to make Denmark stronger, smarter and better equipped for the challenges that lie out there waiting. We also need to look at how to ensure some security for the families. Six out of ten Danish families live today in their own house. It may be the retired couple who live in Brønshøj and who have lived in their house in Brønshøj for 35 years.The husband is 3F's, the wife has worked as a cleaning assistant all her life, and they have saved up for their house in which they have lived forever. Their history was illustrated in the newspaper Politiken. They are experiencing an explosion in their property taxes, which means they sit and wonder if they can stay in their house. Thus, a retired couple who have worn and dragged their entire lives and live in an ordinary house must consider moving because of the rising property taxes. It is something that affects in general and in broad terms. The places in Denmark where you experience that you pay most of your income in property taxes are Copenhagen, Albertslund, Ballerup and Rødovre. These are the areas where property taxes pay the most when you look at it in relation to income. They are ordinary families who, when they sit out in the garden watching the boys play football and the girls jump, think: Can we now stay here in our house with our family, despite the fact that property taxes are rising? That is why it is so fundamental; that is why it is so important; that is why it is so fundamental that we ensure that one can stay in one's own home. Then you can discuss columning up and columning down, if taxes are too high in Denmark • we think they are • but the principle here is that you should be able to stay in your own home without the tax meaning that you cannot stay because the tax explodes between the hands of the families. And it is, of course, the state that can resign by freezing the ground debt at first and by having it completely removed in the second place. So we are suggesting that the root cause be frozen. It will cost 800 million. kr., and it is peanuts in relation to providing calm and safety in the stomachs of hundreds of thousands of Danish families. We also need to create some security for the families when they walk on the streets and alleys. In view of the new security situation, given the situation of migratory and refugee flows, more police are needed not only to deal with border challenges, because we need more police, and not just to deal with the new security situation in the light of the terrorist threat that every day is against Danish society, from extreme elements, but also to ensure general security measures in society in relation to action against forced entry, in relation to order and order on streets and straits. That is why there is also a need for extra effort in relation to the police, in relation to security. When we talk about the future in this way, it is basically important that we do not just make such an accounting assessment of what the situation is like. For Danish society is falling year by year further and further down on the ranking of the most prosperous countries, the most productive countries and the countries where you can see that the best prospects are. Then it may be that on different rankings we can identify ourselves as the happiest country in the world or as the world's second happiest country, depending on the year they are made, where they are made, etc., but in purely ordinary terms and on objective criteria Denmark becomes poorer year by year. We are becoming poorer year by year, and we are doing so because we do not have enough focus on development, because also in the light of the benefit agreement that is being made today, and all sorts of other such derivative agreements, we focus more on how to ensure transfer income and passive support, instead of focusing on how to get people into work; how to get more people away from transfer income and into active employment. After all, the whole focus of the debate in the media, including among some politicians, concerns the question of how to ensure the best possible conditions for those who are not in work, rather than ensuring the best possible conditions for getting to work. This distorts the debate and makes Denmark poorer, because then we have the wrong focus instead of focusing on development. And whatever political position we have, the most important thing, after all, must be to ensure that you are self-sufficient, that you can take care of yourself and support your family, if possible, but also to ensure that you have the opportunity to get a job, rather than creating such generous arrangements that they keep people away from active employment. In those words, we are in favour of the government's draft budget. As I said, this is a good step in the right direction, and we can see ourselves in a financial agreement with the government, but it is clear that it requires us to look at some of the revenue and some of the expenditure that the government is proposing, so that we get it drawn in a more forward-looking direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022152815	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are some brief comments. It's first, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022152822	Thank you. It is touching with the interest of the 3F worker shown by the Conservative People's Party here. It would be desirable for the same interest in the same work to apply when, for example, the person concerned is involved. is affected by unemployment, that he has something to live on and can pay his rent, including the ground debt. It would also be touching if the same thoughtfulness were to apply, so that when the 3F is to deliver his children in the day care institution, there are in fact some educators to care for the children. But let me take it from the positive side. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree that it is a problem that there are working families in Denmark whose income growth is lower than that which the root cause increases. This is a problem because it means that their room for manoeuvre will be reduced. And it's a result of the fact that we have some huge value increases in our properties. We have then proposed in the Enhedslisten that we make the same rule for low-paid families as we have for pensioners, namely that you are allowed to freeze this ground debt. Is it something that the Conservatives can support that you pay when you realize the value, that is, you come out with a big profit when you once sell the house, and then you pay the tax? Is that something the Conservative People's Party can support?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022152928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022152931	I want to address the entire 3F angle first. I have a lot of respect for Enhedslisten's indignation and work, but I think you forget the ordinary employee, the working Dane, by constantly focusing on transfer income, transfer income and transfer income instead of focusing on the person who stands up every morning. So it doesn't have to be the 3F if I'm not allowed to talk about the 3F, but it may be the Nettekassedamen who gets up every morning and stands at the cashier in Nettekter every day. There I think we should focus on the fact that it should be more attractive to be in work rather than on transfer income. But that's just good advice for the friends in the Enhedslisten. With regard to the property taxes and the land tax, I must pay tribute to Enhedslisten, because what Enhedslisten is proposing is better than the system that is today. For that will all the other things just bring an improvement to the families who sit out there and need it the most. However, we would rather have a whole solution instead of a quarter solution, so we are initially proposing a freeze on the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153034	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153042	Thank you. Well, the thing about the unemployed and those who are at work isn't a either-or, rapporteur. So, the people who go to work one day are the ones who are on the daily allowance the next. That is why we must, of course, ensure proper conditions both in the periods when we go unemployed and in the periods when we work, because this applies to almost all Danes. I know it's a little different in here, at least among you, who are not plagued by a rotational rule, because then you can sit in here almost until you die. But that is the way it is for other Danish employees, so it is not a either-or. Quite briefly, how will the Conservatives finance this freeze on the ground? Could you, for example, do that? Imagine that the Conservatives would be helping to close this opening of the billionaire heirloom, which the Finance Minister would like to open in connection with the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153122	I'm gonna have to say to mr. Pelle Dragsted, that within the last few minutes there have been three direct charges, and we are not doing that here. Pelle Dragsted I'm sorry, I'm new in here).
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153133	Pelle Dragsted: The asset tax rate we now hold on to. And again, I think that one should be more progressive on the part of Enhedslisten. Well, look, what creates the values of our society, we saw, for example. can have good educational institutions, good nurseries and kindergartens, is that we have some companies that make some money home. It doesn't come from anything. So if you really want there to be something more production and more welfare, we need, for example. reintroducing the wealth tax rate that the government is setting up. We strongly support this because the family companies create value in Danish society. And it's funding everything else just that we have some good schools and some good kindergarten. So it comes from those companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153216	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153224	I know, sir. Brian Mikkelsen, in his rapporteur's speech, pointed out that one should not only look at it with book-keeping glasses that is fair enough. And yet I do it anyway, i.e. diving straight into the financial bill itself and allowing me to ask Mr. Brian Mikkelsen on just to relate to the fact that in the years of estimates there is in relation to the expected real growth • this is shown in the Budget Table 3 • added up to a greater room for manoeuvre than was envisaged when the Financial Statement was made a few months ago. In fact, you have gone from 0.6 to 0.7. So, first of all, I would just like the Conservative rapporteur to confirm this and, in addition, I would also like to hear how the Conservatives envisage using that room of manoeuvre in the coming years, that is, from 2017 onwards. It must be assumed that the Conservatives are also seeking influence on the financial laws of coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153326	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153329	I note that in the debate the Socialist rapporteur has focused a great deal on the explosive increase in the scope from 0.6 to 0.7. Previously there was a prognosis called 0.645, and now it has changed to 0.656. Well, the marginals don't really seem to me to indicate that now we can have a big party and enjoy ourselves very much for that money. But the room for manoeuvre that exists should naturally be in a society with the world's largest public sector, with the world's highest taxes, which means lowering taxes and taxes for employees and for companies, so that jobs, development and welfare are invested in the future. 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna get even poorer. We have a demography that means we have to get more people into the labour market, we have a situation with our high costs that means that we do not earn enough money to pay for our welfare. That is why increased room for manoeuvre should, of course, go without saying, to reduce taxes and charges for ordinary employees and for companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153434	Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153438	Thank you for that very clear answer, in relation to what a room for manoeuvre should be used for that, I think it is very commendable. After all, it is no secret that a financial law must be concluded equally between a number of parties. What I am hearing is that among the parties currently negotiating finance law, in other words the blue parties, there is no unconditional agreement that a future room for manoeuvre should be used for tax relief. So the question is: Where is the joint quantity with, for example, the Danish People's Party here in relation to Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153515	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153517	I am quite sure that a solution can be found. After all, we are not getting our policy implemented one hundred per cent, we are a tiny party, and we just have to fight with the mandates that we have and which will determine that there are 90 mandates behind a bourgeois Finance Act. Of course, the other bourgeois parties will also fight for this if there is to be a bourgeois Finance Act. And there we fight that fight. We do not agree on everything, but in the 10 years we had a VK government, we agreed with the Danish People's Party on a financial law all the years. So I am quite sure that the government of the Left can now also be able to bring the bourgeois parties together for a new bourgeois Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153556	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153605	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. In the alternative, we have noted that the Conservatives on 19 August were out to say that the jugs have to take the targets that have been set around CO2 This is a very good message which we have been very, very happy about in the alternative. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur could elaborate on this. The rapporteur starts by saying that this seems to be a good financial law agreement, which the Conservatives can support. How does this relate to the cuts in the Finance Act in the area of climate and the environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153641	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153642	Well, we're sticking to the deal we made with the previous government about the 40%. as climate targets. But that agreement is also clear, and it was us who got it as part of the agreement that it should not cost jobs. So these things have to go hand in hand. If we talk about concrete savings that the government is proposing in their draft budget, I have to say that we do not agree with some of the savings in the green area that are being proposed, for example. That you cut the LDP from 385 million. kr. EUR 164 million; kr., and that you cut down on some of the other projects in the field. That is what we must negotiate with the government. They do not have a majority, we do not have a majority, and we must try to get the ends together. We think it is too much savings in the green area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153730	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153733	Thank you for that answer, I'm glad to hear it. I should just like to clarify what the rapporteur said about the fact that it is also clear in the agreement on the climate target that it must not cost jobs. How can I interpret this into the answer to the Finance Act? I'm gonna be a little uncomfortable there. Is the Conservative People's Party committed to maintaining the climate objective that the Conservative People's Party itself has helped to reach agreement on?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153810	Yes, well, the Conservative People's Party has an ambition, of course, to abide by the agreements we have entered into, and we have an agreement that Denmark as a nation has the 40%. As a target, and of course we stand by that. But what the agreement says is that it must not cost Danish jobs, because one can also be too sacred and sit on the high horse so that it will cost welfare and go beyond values so that we cannot invest in the climate in the future. When we talk about finance, I have to say that the climate targets of 40%. Of course, there is nothing to do with it, but there are some specific savings in the green area that we have looked at in connection with the Finance Act and which we think are too hard on the green area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153855	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022153901	I would like to comment on the image given by the rapporteur of the state of Denmark in terms of innovation and business relations. And I would like to ask the rapporteur to comment on the fact that, in December 2014, the international business magazine Forbes designated Denmark as the best country in the world to operate, that according to the World Bank, we are the fourth best country in the world to operate in, and that we are also very high in terms of innovation in relation to the European Union. After all, the European Commission makes an innovation inventory for each country, where Denmark is in second place, because we have a very well-trained workforce and because companies generally focus on innovation. So I just have to say that when the rapporteur gives a picture of Denmark as such, a country where there is no business at all and where there is no innovation, I just do not think that it is very well in line with reality. Is not the truth in fact that the strong welfare state we have, and the fact that we have a strong public sector, has been crucial for Denmark to have the position that Denmark has internationally, in terms of innovation and in terms of being able to operate in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154013	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154015	It's an easy country to start a business in. When I was Minister for Economics and Business 4 years ago, we were voted the world's best country to be an entrepreneur in and the world's best country to start a new business in. That has not changed, and that is the study which Mr. Rune Lund is referring to. However, this does not mean that we are creating entrepreneurs with jobs, and that does not mean that we are creating innovation with value. If you look at small and medium-sized enterprises, more than half of them have not created a single new process, a single new product, a single new innovation over the last five years. It is because we do not use it well enough and we do not create enough incentives for companies to develop. It is about tax rules, it is about making it cheaper to be a company in Denmark, and it is also about getting something more out of investing in development and production in Denmark. But we are not a developing country, and I would like to say clearly that we have a fantastic country, the best country in the world, but we can only see that, year by year, we come down on the ranking in relation to development, in relation to welfare, in relation to jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154120	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154124	I am pleased that the rapporteur at least admits that the very gloomy picture of Denmark's state in terms of innovation and in terms of being able to operate might not be entirely accurate. In fact, I think it is very crucial that we in Denmark continue to have a strong public sector, that we have a stronger public sector, because a strong public sector and a strong welfare state are the foundations for having a country with a great competitiveness, that we can have a well-trained workforce, that we can have a proper infrastructure, that when it gets sick, the workforce can get proper treatment in our hospitals, etc. etc. Then we can agree, or perhaps the rapporteur would agree with me, that since Denmark's state of affairs is perhaps not as poor as the rapporteur suggested in the rapporteur's speech, it is actually very much due to the fact that we have a strong welfare state?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154207	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154208	Well, welfare state and entrepreneurship aren't each other's opposites. What is the problem with Danish society is the culture of employees that we have, in which we educate both our schoolchildren and each other to be employees and not to be entrepreneurs, not to take the initiative themselves. This has something to do with the discussion that I had with Mr. Rune Lund's colleague, sir. Pelle Dragsted, before, that is, the defense that the Left in particular constantly has for passive services, instead of focusing on the fact that it must pay off to make an effort. The whole scourge of the welfare society, which will be our challenge both today and tomorrow in Denmark, is that we do not reward the initiative well enough, that we do not reward innovation well enough, that we do not reward the creation of jobs well enough, and then, of course, we become relatively poorer, because those things do other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154301	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154303	Thank you very much. And speaking of jobs and climate, the fact is that in Denmark we have created some of the most talented companies, in fact throughout the world, in energy technology, in resource saving, in energy saving and in water technology. It has created thousands of jobs, and it has created billions of exports. If we just take energy exports, it increased by more than 10%. last year, when general exports of goods increased by less than 1%. We have therefore seen in broad terms, in the energy system and in all sorts of other places a gigantic position of strength, which means that the rest of the world is looking towards Denmark when it comes to the very difficult task it is to get started with the green transition. Now a cut has been made, or the government is at least going to cut back on a large number of the areas that Enhedslisten fought to get through when we had another government, and this is a little disproving the rapporteur's claim that we are only interested in them on transfer income. We have fought for the Entrepreneurs' House, we have fought for an ambitious MUDP programme, we have fought for a Green Conversion Fund in the Ministry of Business and Growth, we have fought for support for ecological entrepreneurs, and that is how I could continue. However, does the rapporteur not agree with me that our green position of strength has been created by ambitious climate and environmental objectives, that it has been created by regulation that has provided companies with a home market and that it has been created by support schemes for innovative companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154437	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154440	Well, our position of strength hasn't been created in the last 31⁄2 years. There it has actually gone downhill in relation to the rankings in the green area. It has been created over the last 20-30 years, among others. The Conservative People's Party has been the driving force behind it, along with many other parties. So the gloria over my head I think many parties in here have in this area, because it has been a common national matter to bet on wind turbines and green energy. What is the challenge for society now is that other countries are, of course, on their way forward. That is why it is also about rewarding companies in Denmark that want to create innovation. It doesn't just have to be in green technology. It may be in all sorts of other areas where we develop some things. There are no incentives in Denmark to do what we previously created with the green industry, which means that we are today frontrunners in the wind turbine sector and in other forms of green energy. And there is what we now have the opportunity to make Denmark richer and stronger by creating better opportunities for business companies who want to invest in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154543	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154547	Thank you. I remember a Conservative party leader who said at the change of government in 2001 that he was very concerned about the expansion of wind turbines, which took place, that it should be stopped. And that's what they did. But does the rapporteur listen to the companies talking about MUDP, all the companies that have been so fond of the Green Conversion Fund in the Ministry of Enterprise and Growth? I come just today from a conference on the subject of MUDP, which supports environmental technology companies. Does the rapporteur agree with me that such schemes are incredibly important, that the Green Conversion Fund is an important system that can help businesses to improve their ability to shut down resource cycles, to improve the transition to the circular economy that the whole world is going through, because we know that resources are not endless? Does the rapporteur recognise that these arrangements are important and will the Conservative People's Party help to fight for the preservation of these arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154647	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154650	I mentioned in my introduction that we think that the savings on some of the projects mentioned here by Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd have been too great. We do not think that we should cut back on, for example. The EUDP project. I also agree that some of the other projects mentioned by Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd have been overshaven. Because it means a lot to our companies that there are some programme collaborations they can enter into so that they can develop together and so that there can be some partnerships, both economic and allianceal. So our position on the budget bill is that too much has been shaved.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154725	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022154735	As a parliamentarian representing Greenland, I see a great need for us to move from toast speeches to concrete action. Denmark needs to engage in Greenland in a different way from what we have seen so far. Denmark continues to occupy 32 areas on behalf of Greenland. These are key areas such as a secure and up-to-date legal system, laws adapted to our reality, and laws that determine important decisions about our everyday lives. Many of these areas are not up to date and we have a common task in raising these areas. The Self-Government Act describes the economic relationship between our two countries. The desire for independence has always been a major discussion and will probably also be in the years to come, but the talk of independence has probably also had the effect that it has been a little harder to engage on the Danish side, but it should not hold Denmark back; we are a community, and we will probably be doing so for a number of years to come. We cannot only look at the Kingdom community without also looking at the current economic situation in Greenland, because Greenland's economic situation is extremely vulnerable these years, and from Inuit Ataqatigiits we do not believe that the planned reforms that are in the Greenland Financial Bill are sufficient. The reforms do not address the economic and structural problems facing our country and, unfortunately, they are trying to solve the economic problems of overly solving systematic deficits or tax increases, and this is not sustainable. The Greenland Economic Council predicts that we risk very acute problems if we do not respect the sustainability of fisheries. It's gonna hit the individual family. For Inuit Ataqatigiit, it is absolutely crucial that the economic policy pursued must be sustainable and that it leads towards greater equality. If you look at the financial bill's proposals and the direct impact on Greenland's economy, you will see that it shows an overall fall compared to this year of just under one million. It may not work by so much overall, but if you also look at that in a number of central areas in Greenland there seems to be a fall, among other things. In relation to the Department of Criminal Services, the police, the courts, the Maritime Authority, and I could go on. Among the more positive aspects, it can be pointed out that funds are being set aside for the establishment of a national defence agency. This should have been done by 2010, when it was recommended, but better late than never. A national defence agency helps bring greater balance and justice to our society, and that increases our legal certainty. If we are to preserve and strengthen Greenlandic society, it is essential that we achieve growth. We should do this together by ensuring export promotion of Greenlandic products, helping to secure new growth initiatives and establishing a common Greenlandic-Danish investment fund. Greenland needs to diversify its business efforts so that our economy in the future is not so one-sidedly dependent on fishing. With a common Greenlandic-Danish investment fund inspired by the existing Danish Climate Fund, Greenlandic, Danish and international companies will be able to get a helping hand in investing in Greenland's business development. The investment fund could help companies raise capital, communicate contacts and provide know-how when companies want to invest in Greenland. Such a fund could help to mobilise funding, which is crucial in terms of the conversion of the economy in Greenland, and this could help to ensure longer-term economic development. We really wanted both Danish and Greenlandic companies to have part of these contracts and these opportunities. Social work and work with children and young people are very close to me. Investments in prevention, education and a strong legal system are essential for a well-functioning society. My political objective is to achieve a better balance and a greater focus on preventing social problems in Greenland as well as for Greenlanders in Denmark. The aim must be to make an early and preventive, well-functioning effort to ensure that there are fewer socially vulnerable. One of the things we have managed to crack the basket on is alcohol consumption, where we actually have a much less alcohol consumption overall than in Denmark. However, we know that there are still a number of challenges. It is important that we maintain this positive development and that we also get funding for Greenlandic treatment for Greenlanders in Denmark in 2016. The latest report from the SFI clearly shows that there are more vulnerable Greenlanders than Danes and that we are not all doing equally well here in Denmark. I would, of course, like to see the inclusion funds, which will help to ensure that there are fewer socially vulnerable people, also secured in 2016. Means of prevention for example: The association Greenlandic Children or the work in Kofoeds School should be maintained in both 2016 and 2017. The strategy for vulnerable Greenlanders, which ends this year, is a step in the right direction. We need to think in much longer-term efforts if it is to make a difference. However, it is important that the social effort is consolidated in the municipalities with special units that very much like to have staff with Greenlandic spirit or who master the Greenlandic language. In the latest report from the Institute for Human Rights, we can see that there is a distortion. Here it is documented that up to 15%. are discriminated against, even from public employees. This is certainly not acceptable, but I also think it is important to say that the Greenland Government, Naalakkersuisut, should certainly be involved in this work and that they certainly have a huge task. We should also remember that for some Greenlanders it is perhaps the best thing to go home, but those who stay here need help to be included in society. It is a joint task that we have. In the field of education, the progress reform has been a major debate. It also has an impact on Greenlandic students who receive Danish education support. The government commits itself in the government base to maintaining young Greenlandic students in education. This could be done by means of an intro programme, for example. a summer school where Greenland's self-government worked together to establish it. This could be done by extending the Buddy schemes available at universities to foreign students, which could also be done by securing funds for language courses in Danish for students, but also for new entrants. In the area of justice, I welcome the establishment of the North Atlantic Office in the Ministry of Justice and, as I said, I welcome the establishment of a national defence office. I am pleased that there is an open dialogue in the area of justice and I am pleased that there is interest. The area of justice covers both police, justice and criminal justice, and these are large, heavy and very important areas. It is important that, when we are in a modern society in rapid and exciting development, we also see that we can safely sit back with the certainty that our legal situation is in order. A great many areas could be highlighted, but I would like to highlight one area in relation to the area of justice, which is that the conditions are lifted in relation to the local authorities, which exist in the 61 settlements in Greenland. We recently heard from the chief of police that suspects are being held in their own homes because there are no detentions. We also hear that they are being chained to radiators, and I just think it is really important to say that it is some homes that should be safe for all those who live in the home, also for the children who live close to the municipal guards. Immediately after the elections this summer, Denmark's new foreign minister was called the loss of the base contract at Thule Air Base for DONG case times 10. Here in Denmark the DONG case has aroused a great deal of debate, just as the so-called Thulesag has also aroused a great deal of debate in Greenland. There is really good reason for this, because the case of the service contract in connection with the US military base at Pituffik in North Greenland will cost Greenland society about 180-200 million. kr. a year. If this loss is seen in the light of Greenland's current economic situation, the Thule case has had an economic negative impact on the Greenlandic national treasury, so it should therefore be taken seriously. It is both about tax dollars, but it is also very much about jobs, training and practical opportunities, and it is absolutely central to Greenland and to Inuit Ataqatigiit that the Americans' presence in Greenland must of course benefit Greenlandic society. I look forward to following this case and we will press for a solution. Finally, I am pleased that I have today been appointed as a representative on behalf of the whole parliament to the Committee on Arctic Parliamentarians. My political goal is that I can help secure some international platforms where I can tell you about the potential in Greenland and help create the necessary growth in Greenland. I look forward to being called to the negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022155813	Thank you to the one Greenlandic member. Here you go, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022155832	Thank you very much. We face an exciting future. Ahead are great challenges for our Kingdom community. In these years, the eyes are on the Arctic and the opportunities that climate change brings with it, whether they be new shipping routes, new research areas, investment, minerals or the continental shelf. It is clear that there are a large number of countries that are ready for an investment armament in the Arctic. I must say, however, that there is a degree of restraint in the government's financial act in relation to the Arctic area. I would like to call on the government to act in relation to the proposal made to the former SR government. Specifically, it is a question of granting development funds to Greenland via the so-called PPP model, so that Greenland and Denmark are not a step backwards in relation to the challenges of the future in business development, tourism, raw materials, preparedness and, above all, in the area of sovereignty enforcement. The future is here. Denmark should set as a goal that the preparedness around Greenland as a minimum should be at the same level as that of our neighbouring countries. For example, there is a need for more aircraft and a fleet that has the capacity to carry out the increasing activity in the Arctic. One of the solutions to better preparedness is to systematically involve the Greenlandic population in the work of preparedness, just as you do in Iceland. In this way, locals can participate in a coordinated effort at Arctic Command and assist with e.g. search and rescue. The overall objective must be that the preparedness must be up-to-date and future-proof. I would urge the government to acquire and allocate funds on this Finance Act to improve preparedness in Greenland, otherwise the delay in the analysis of the defence will mean that the citizens of Greenland will have to live another year of insufficient preparedness. As you know, Denmark is responsible for foreign policy on behalf of the whole realm on matters which have not been taken over by Greenland. We would like the defence of Greenland's interests to fill more in the future. In Greenland we experience a wide-ranging interest from the outside world as a result of the increased focus on the Arctic. Therefore, in Siumut we would like to see the coordination between the embassies and Greenland increased, and that the embassies are better prepared to look after the Greenlandic interests in, for example. up to date advice on culture, raw materials, environment, population, politics, trade, fisheries, tourism and much more. Work in the health and safety field in Greenland also needs improvement in view of the increased activities in the field of raw materials. In practical terms, we are dealing with the marketing of funds for supervision and the training of safety representatives. We should all look seriously at the SFI report on exposure to Greenlanders in Denmark. This document demonstrates that the effort for vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark is far from good enough; on the contrary, they will be put at a disadvantage over time. Today, a report from the SFI and from the Institute for Human Rights is again being launched, documenting that Greenlanders are subjected to discrimination and stigmatisation in Danish society. Prejudice and discrimination make it difficult for them to adapt and feel like citizens of the country with the same rights and dignity, despite being citizens like everyone else. Aalborg and Esbjerg Municipalities are trying to make a difference that helps, but we need a coordinated effort between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the municipalities if we are to solve the problem. Danish citizenship is not always an advantage for new entrants who need a helping hand. There is no uniform effort in relation to this group, which has a limited Danish and has a limited understanding of Danish society and culture. In connection with the opening of the parliamentary year, we went to church. I have no doubt that the priest's sermon during the service gave us strength and faith in our work. Love and respect are important to all of us, no matter where we are now in society. The church is an incredibly important part of our identity, also in Greenland, and that identity does not change when you choose to move to Denmark. We would like the Greenlandic part of the people's church to be given much better consideration than is the case today. There is a need for several Greenlandic priests and a Greenlandic congregation in Denmark. A well-functioning legal society provides security for citizens. The police and the judiciary in Greenland have been lagging behind for years. In the government base it is formulated in such a way that the government will work for a standard of Danish responsibilities in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which corresponds to the standard in Denmark. With these words, we hope that the government has the will to give priority to the area, so that conditions improve significantly in the coming years, with significant improvements already under the new Finance Act. There is a need for improvements: a police classification which corresponds to the tasks, up-to-date police stations, up-to-date radio communications equipment, better training for circuit judges, equal pay for aid guardians, institution capacities appropriate to needs, training for the asylum officers, treatment facilities for asylum-seekers, up-to-date salaries for municipal officers and, above all, better support schemes for victims of crime. With these words, I would like to ask the government for a special call for the financial law negotiations and, at the same time, inform the House that I am leaving my vote open in relation to the financial law negotiations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160456	Thank you. There's a single questioner in there, and that's Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160502	I think it was rather spectacular that Mrs Aleqa Hammond said that Greenlanders in Denmark are being discriminated against. That's quite an accusation. How does this discrimination manifest itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160519	It was today at 1:00 a.m. 15.30 launched in a report by the Institute for Human Rights, which is in fact the State's own institution. The Institute has produced a report on vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark, and the report points out that the Greenlandic population in Denmark is being subjected to discrimination and stigmatisation, not only among the population itself, but also through the Danish system in the areas that were supposed to help them. They are being discriminated against in the form that they are being talked down and that the cases they bring in are not being taken very seriously when they seek help in the public sector. I think this is also a very, very serious accusation, and it is also something that we, as elected representatives and the government, must take seriously, not least, so that we ensure that all citizens of the Danish Kingdom are treated equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160611	Of course, there should be no discrimination against Greenlanders in Denmark, and that is also why I was surprised that something like this should happen. I have not heard of it before, but now Mrs Aleqa Hammond could refer to a report by the Institute for Human Rights, and we will have to look into it, because of course it is not going to happen. But for now, and until I have read it, I still assume that Greenlanders in Denmark are treated just as well as people born here in Southern Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160644	There was also another report during the summer, which actually came out from the Ministry of Social Affairs, SFI, which pointed out that a large part of the Greenlandic population living in Denmark is much more vulnerable and much more vulnerable, and with the role they have in Danish society, they are not as well-functioning as we really want. Precisely because we are regarded as Danish citizens, we do not have access to Danish education and not access to introduction to the Danish system, because it is not for Danish citizens, it is for others. So Danish citizenship itself has in many ways been an obstacle to many Greenlanders in terms of getting the help they really need.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160728	We thank Mrs Aleqa Hammond. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022160736	I would like to inform the Minister of Finance that perhaps, as the only rapporteur, I am not bringing any requests for greater funding for either category, on the contrary. The new Faroese Government has decided to terminate the price regulation agreement on the block subsidy. It is a clear signal that the Faroe Islands want to establish an independent economic foundation based on their own resources and abilities. I am aware that the savings on the Danish Finance Act 2016 are limited, but that does not change the signal value. The new government in the Faroe Islands has also announced that it will look at further reduction in the block grant when a continuous profit has been made on the Faroese Finance Act. Although the growth of the Faroese economy has been in good condition over the past few years, we have some major challenges ahead of us. There has been a deficit in the Finance Act over several years and that gap must be closed, and we need a redistribution of tax burdens, so that low and middle incomes will have more room for manoeuvre. The pre-taxation of pensions introduced a few years ago was used for immediate tax cuts, and the ambition of a sustainable economy is a bad thing, so we need to allocate funds in a stabilisation fund to restore sustainability. We must also have a sustainable pension reform in place and, last but not least, a fisheries reform. It must both pave the way for economic growth, take account of sustainable fishing and, moreover, be profitable for both society and industry players. It is a great mouthful for Faroese society to create the independent economic foundation for a welfare society at the level of the other Nordic countries, but it is not an impossible task. This requires continuous economic growth, innovation and a very sensible household, which also takes into account long-term sustainability. We have come a long way, even though we are not yet in the finish line. Block grant of 642 million kr. Today, 13.6 per cent is in the region. of the Faroese Finance Act 2016. We include other operating costs which the Danish State has to include, among other things. police and judiciary, then the figure rises to approx. 16% This is a halving compared to 2001, as the Faroe Islands unilaterally and unconditionally reduced the block grant by 366 million. kr. annual and the percentage figures were 28 and 21 per cent respectively. The Faroese gross domestic product is expected to reach approx. 16 billion kr., and the block grant of 642 million. kr. is therefore approx. 4% of GDP. We have not come this far without both stubbornness, will, ability and diligence, and we must hold on to this momentum, so that we reach the finish line. We need to be self-financing and more than that. I believe that, regardless of their attitude towards independence or cohesion with Denmark, most of the Faroe Islands are proud to pursue this ambition. I am also convinced that our perseverance and courage are inextricably linked to our strong national identity. We are not children of Denmark. We are cousins, the children of the sea. We live in the middle of the sea, we live on what the sea provides, and we pay the price that sometimes costs when the sea shows teeth. Perhaps a small story can illustrate how our national heritage and relations with the sea characterize us, regardless of the situation we find ourselves in. It is about a young man who traveled from a small town, Gjógv, to Denmark in the 1930s to attend high school in Sorø. He became a classical language student and passed with a cross and snake both ancient Greek and Latin and then continued to study law in Copenhagen. Then came the war in 1940, and together with the family he was cut off from all connections to the Faroe Islands for five long years. They missed whale meat so much, so when one day he biked past Old Strand and saw a fishing boat put a small whale up on the quay edge, he bought it immediately. Sigurð, as his name was, did not need any help with the transport. He drove the whale up on his back, and of course it attracted great attention in the streets of Copenhagen, when bike messengers shouted with unbelievable eyes: He bikes with a whale on his back. At home on Palermovej he carried the whale up into the kitchen, cut it up, and sent to all the farmers on Amager, because now there was a party with Faroese food on the table in Copenhagen. It is part of the story that Sigurð Joensen became a highly respected lawyer, leader and politician in the Faroe Islands for many years. I think he's also well-known in the PM's office. Whale meat is not for sale in Denmark anymore, but on the other hand the flight connections are so good that the Faroese can travel home to the islands where we still have grindewhal on the menu. Today, the Faroe Islands are a modern society filled with energetic, skilled and well-educated people, and fertility is not a problem.No women in Europe give birth to as many children as our women do. In fact, it is a very harmonious place because we have the lowest crime rate in Europe. However, even if our strong national identity and culture are pulling in all our young people, so that they want to continue the struggle to build an independent and modern society, we must face up to the fact that we must compete with metropolises and organisations all over the world for their labour and commitment. We face a great demographic challenge if we cannot maintain the younger generations or bring them back home after education has been completed, and we can only respond to this by creating a meaningful and challenging life based on greater growth and a level of welfare in line with that of neighbouring countries. We have a momentum for growth now and we need to turn this momentum up even more. In addition to our internal efforts, it also requires that we have much greater external mobility so that there is better room for developing our economy and industry. We have, for example. We need certain trade agreements, double taxation agreements, greater freedom of movement between us and other countries. This calls for greater freedom in foreign and trade policy matters. The foreign policy authorisation law that is in force today restricts our freedom of action and prevents us from defending our interests in the best possible way. For example: Denmark has combined the authorisation law for the Faroe Islands and Greenland, so that when the Faroe Islands and Greenland appear in the same international forum and draw in different directions, which can be entirely legitimate, we cancel each other's positions and vote blankly. Thus we lose influence and our right to defend our own interests. A fresh example of this, which could have significant negative consequences for our economy and industry, has recently been the experience of the NEAFC intergovernmental body responsible for managing migratory fish stocks in international waters. The issue is that nations in NEAFC want to include the management of fish stocks within coastal states' borders under their auspices. The Faroe Islands do not want that. We want to continue to negotiate directly with the other coastal states because, as a coastal state, we can defend our interests sovereignly. If these negotiations are placed in full or in part under NEAFC, our mandate is subject to the views of Denmark or Greenland. The Minister for Foreign Affairs' announcement in the debate on Arctic relations that there is no movement on the part of Denmark in terms of the foreign policy authority law creates further tensions. In fact he tightened the screw tremendously when he announced that Denmark is one nation, has one voice and has one foreign policy. This is not in harmony with our view of the Faroe Islands as a nation with self-determination in trade and international law, and that the Faroe Islands are the land of the Faroe Islands. This is about the heartblood of the Faroe Islands, and it can easily develop into explosives in Faroese politics, I say hello and say. Today it is a reality that Denmark is moving more and more of its sovereign decisions to the European Union, and that the Faroe Islands must therefore live with the conflicts of interest that it can cause, and we have heard a lot about them recently. We therefore urgently need greater flexibility in intergovernmental negotiations so that the Faroe Islands can defend their interests and generate further economic growth. The time has passed from the post-colonial legal rhetoric of the unitary state and the framework of the constitution. We need to modernise the existing constitution between countries so that it reflects present-day conditions. I am not opposed to close cooperation with Denmark or other countries. On the contrary, we have a great interest in good and equal cooperation with virtually every country in the world, not least Denmark. I therefore recommend that Denmark change its course from a conservative conception of the single state and support the efforts of the Faroe Islands to create the constitutional prerequisites for dynamic economic growth, which is the foundation of a self-sustaining economy. On the other hand, it will release our block grants for other purposes in Denmark and, as I hear in today's debate, there are no proposals for what such a bag of money can be used for. After all, it is almost one thousandth of the Danish Finance Act. However, if the Minister of Finance wishes to hear more about the Faroese views, I would be happy to stand for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022161831	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022161844	Thank you. It is usually the case, when there are long debates in the Chamber, that I cannot reach the plane if I have to go home the same day. Then I'll have to postpone it until the next day. Now I'm going home today, and then I came on anyway, so I haven't actually written a speech. However, I would like to make a few comments on the draft budget, so I would say that if you turn through it, you will see that the Faroe Islands are slowly and quietly slipping out of the Danish Finance Act. The amounts are becoming smaller and the economic dependence between Denmark and the Faroe Islands is becoming increasingly weaker. I think that is positive, because it is not healthy to receive large amounts of money without working for it, and it also harms the Faroese economy that the block grant is there, because it creates a dynamic in the Faroe Islands, which means that a certain party in the Faroe Islands always goes to the choice to say: Vote for us, so we ensure that the Faroe Islands continue to get the Danish money. Vote for the others and we'll lose the Danish money. The elections will be about whether to vote for Denmark as a kind of dairy cow, or to vote in favour of losing the money. And it is detrimental to the dynamics of Faroese politics. If you look at the largest amounts, you see that the block grant is 642 million. kr. As Magni Arge said, a few years ago it was greatly reduced, and now it is frozen again. It was then a debate during the budget negotiations: should it be frozen, or should it be indexed? Now you can say that you got both, because the freeze costs only DKK 600,000, so there are some who got the principle and the others did not have to pay for it. I think this is a good idea and it is a sensible way of phasing out block support, namely by freezing it nominally, so that its importance slowly and quietly becomes less and less important. Then there is another amount that I appreciate. It is the amount of something called The FarGen, which is the genetic biobank in the Faroe Islands. It was an agreement I made with the previous government on the grant of 10 million. kr. All in all. A total of 8 million was granted. kr. Last year, and then they said there's gonna be two again this year. Now there was a new government, and then one can always be a little nervous about whether the agreement now holds across a change of government. Now you see it's holding. The 2 million. kr. Come this time, and I'd like to sign for that. It is always good to be able to make agreements with a system and then keep the agreements even if the players change. So thank you for that. It is a very perspectiveful project, which I also believe that in the long run, especially pharmaceutical companies, Danish industry can benefit greatly if they make investments there. Something else that I have talked about a lot is the Arctic University. Three million has been set aside. kr. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1239/2013 of 18 December 2013 laying down detailed I am very pleased about that too; I shall also sign for it. Then there's a case that was one of the first things I worked on when I came to parliament. It was that the principle of earning children's and young people's benefits was changed right after I was in the Folketing, so that one had to have lived in Denmark for 2 years in order to get it. There was Denmark, which was not the kingdom of Denmark. This meant that the Faroese lost that benefit and were made worse than other Nordic residents and were equated with EU citizens. This has changed, and compensation has now even been paid to those affected by this change in 2012. There's 3.6 million. kr. to a benefit to those who, due to a misunderstanding, were hit by that cut. So I'm very happy about that too. On the whole, I would like to say that this is a fine financial law for me. There aren't that many numbers, and there shouldn't be that many numbers. It makes sense as we slowly and quietly phase out the dependency relationship, so that we can focus on other things in the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, which are much more perspectiveful. Of course, Denmark has a responsibility for the economy throughout the kingdom, but it is far better to help the Faroe Islands access markets, the EU market, for example, and such. It is better to give the Faroe Islands a fishing rod than to give them fish. So that is what will also strengthen the relationship in the long run. We have not been called for any negotiations with the Minister of Finance. I do not think we should do that either, since the Faroese economy is something other than the Danish economy, but I would be happy if the Minister for Finance would call a small discussion about the situation without it being a definite debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022162357	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then the next speaker is the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022162411	Thank you. I think we have had a good and in many ways objective debate with many good speeches. I would like to comment on the various contributions made by the rapporteurs in a single form, and I will start by outlining the main thrust of the Government's draft Finance Bill for 2016, the proposal entitled "Strict framework, clear priorities'. The financial bill means that we are reducing the deficit on public finances to 0.4 per cent. of GDP, thus strengthening public finances by a total of 5 billion. kr. compared to August when we presented the cashier's checkup. There are a number of good reasons for this. The government insists that we create air to the budgetary law's balance limit. We no longer have to drive right to the edge of the budget law. Year after year, if you go all the way to the limit of the budget law, you increase the risk that public finances will have to be tightened up if revenue is failing or expenditure is slipping. This creates insecurity and uncertainty about the public economy. There is also a need for us to start working towards the balance of public finances by 2020, an objective that I assume there is broad support for in the Folketing. After all, it should not be new normal to plan year after year to run with deficits. Quite ordinary households need to have order in the economy, so revenue and expenditure match. The same must, of course, be the starting point for the state's household budget. That is why the government is stressing that we are starting the adjustment with the balance of public finances now. The longer we wait to get started, the steeper the adjustment becomes. And the steeper the adjustment gets, the harder we have to deal with later. Furthermore, it is important that there is air in the economy to relax fiscal policy the next time we have a setback. If you drive all the way to the border continuously, there is no possibility of stimulating the economy if it is needed. In addition, it is important that we prepare for more elderly people in the coming years. This will increase the pressure on our health services in particular, and we must be able to afford it. However, the check-out showed that we were much further away from the target than hitherto assumed. If no action had been taken, the deficit on public finances would have stood at 0.7%. of GDP in 2016, and it is clearly on the wrong side of the budget law's demand for a maximum of 0.5%. of GDP. It is nothing new, however, that public finances are slipping away. This has happened continuously in recent years. In 2013, it was expected that the deficit in 2016 would be 0.3%. of GDP. So now, in 2015, it was 0.7 per cent if no action was taken. Of course, it is not sustainable for things to go so far, and this requires tightening up. If we look at what we call the actual balance, which in other words shows quite banally whether as much money is coming in as goes out in public budgets, then the situation has also deteriorated. In 2015, we expect a deficit of 60 billion. kr. corresponding to the fact that we are down to touch the limit of the allowed 3%. According to EU rules. This is a further downward adjustment compared to the cashier's check-out due to the fact that lower stock prices and lower oil prices give less income to the state. In addition, we do not yet know the full consequences of the fact that due to the problems of the SKAT EFI system a considerable amount of arrears have to be written off to the public. This will also weaken the actual balance in 2015. In 2016, we expect a minus of 2.8%. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG) under the Therefore, it is timely care that the 2016 Finance Act tackles adjustment and improves public finances by 5 billion. kr. In doing so, we have taken the first and important step towards balance by 2020. In addition, it is a sound economic policy that we begin to withdraw the lax fiscal policy once the Danish economy has got off the ground. The tight financial framework means that we have to finance new initiatives. If we want to give priority to new areas, we must find the money elsewhere, either as a saving or as a re-prioritisation of funds that were on the financial laws of the previous government. This Finance Act must have as much savings and reprioritisation as new money can be used for costly proposals. The government has given priority to a number of concrete and significant initiatives on which we went to the polls. With the draft Finance Act, the government has set aside 2.4 billion. kr. extra for health in 2016. We gave the regions 1.4 billion. kr. in the recent agreement. In addition, we lift with approx. 1 billion kr. in the Finance Act, and this is a significant strengthening of health. The money must be used, among other things. to an effort for demented. Many people have that disease in their lives, and here we can do better so that the growing group of citizens with dementia and their relatives get good help and a dignified and secure life. We will also increase our efforts for the weakest elderly. Among other things: we will support the spread of permanently affiliated nursing home doctors so that the doctor, together with the staff, can raise the care and treatment of the elderly. The government will also reinstate the right to be treated elsewhere if the waiting time in the public hospitals exceeds 30 days. It was an agreement that the previous government watered down and hollowed out. So now we're re-establishing that right. As we promised in the election campaign, we are reintroducing the housing job scheme. I would like to acknowledge that, with a rapid solution and a broad majority, we have been able to reinstate the scheme already with effect in 2015. We also went to the polls for an extra effort for the whole of Denmark. Danish economy is progressing, but growth is not equally strong across country and city. The government will support long-term growth and development across the country, and we will present an overall proposal for this in the autumn. The action will include: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on Regional Policy, Regional Planning and Relations with Regional and Local Authorities and the Committee on Regional Policy, Regional Planning and Relations with Regional and Local Authorities and the Committee on Regional Policy, Regional Planning and Relations with Regional and Local Authorities and the Committee on Regional Policy and Regional Planning and Regional Planning and the Committee on Regional Policy, Regional Planning and Relations with Regional and Local Authorities. kr. to growth throughout Denmark Further to this, the government will make efforts to strengthen the agricultural and food sector, which is also an important part of the basis for creating growth and jobs outside the major cities. We're gonna set up $75 million. kr. annual to ensure better framework conditions and development opportunities in that area, and we will allocate additional funds to ensure a better balance between environmental requirements in relation to nitrogen emissions and opportunities for farming. We also went to the polls to provide better conditions for Danish business. It must be cheaper and easier to operate in Denmark. We have introduced a tax and burden freeze. This provides security and a stable framework for businesses. With the Finance Act, we now set aside money for a corporate tax reform to make Danish business taxation simpler and more competitive, so that we can attract more foreign investment. We will facilitate the generational shift from companies to commercial funds, and accordingly we will improve the ability to transfer unlisted shares by reintroducing the so-called asset tax rate. This is something that is important for the range of family-owned companies that are important for Danish business. In addition, we are abolishing the so-called NOx Finally, with the budget bill, we are placing a negotiating reserve of 1.7 billion. kr. It is money that we want to prioritise together with those parties that are ready to take responsibility. This year, as part of the financial law negotiations, we will have to conclude a new multi-annual agreement for the Danish police. We must ensure that the police have the resources they need to carry out their task effectively and professionally. This is therefore one of the areas in which we, together with other parties, will find the money within the negotiating reserve. We can afford to strengthen core welfare and create a better framework for business, because we dare to prioritise within the existing economic framework. Let me give you a few examples: we have chosen to downgrade development aid. We have adapted the appropriations for research so that the Barcelona objective, which we ourselves have agreed to, was the last left in government. We have normalised the re-priority contribution, which has been applied to a number of areas in the state over the past 30 years, but not to culture and education. We have done away with this, so that these areas also contribute their share. We have introduced the same principle for municipalities, because everyone must contribute. That's actually very fair. In the field of health, we are continuing the existing demand for the regions to deliver 2%. more activity per year. In addition, we have adapted the active employment effort. Denmark is the country in the OECD that spends most resources on GDP, but not all efforts have clear employment effects. This applies, among other things, to: the so-called mentoring system, which costs 400 million. kr. Every year, but not enough in work. We adjust the housing allowance to reflect the actual rent and not desk tables. The cost of housing benefits today amounts to approx. 10 billion kr. in the past many years and this is unsustainable in the long run. We will review the business promotion efforts and spend the money on the general improvements to the framework conditions for companies that I mentioned earlier. Specifically, I want to abolish the property tax rate. We make a number of other adjustments, among others. in the field of transport and in the green area. In total, we are moving 6.7 billion. kr., because we believe that we can spend the money better on core welfare, health, on a stronger business community, on a better police force, and that is our priority. In addition, I would like to point out in all modesty that with our clear priorities we have contributed to an increase in the room for manoeuvre, i.e. public consumption, by approx. 3 billion kr. Towards 2020. There is now room for an increase in public spending of 17 billion. kr. towards 2020, which we can use for welfare and tax relief. When we presented the cashier's checkup, it was only 14 billion. kr. When I presented the draft Finance Bill, I said I expected a lot of trouble from the howling choir to get started. And it's gone, as everyone can see, exactly as I predicted. I just have to say that this government is not in the world to freeze the public sector. The public sector must constantly develop and innovate to meet citizens' expectations and demands. This applies to both the state, the municipalities and the regions. This applies to universities, colleges, vocational schools, and to the employees and managers of the individual institutions. It is a basic condition in a modern society, just as it is for private companies. The solution is not to pull the wallet out of your pocket every time. So it is not done in private companies either. In the private sector, you can't just ask customers to pay. There we must constantly improve our productivity and make things wiser. Similarly, in the public sector, we cannot just demand more taxes from citizens. We need to make things smarter and more efficient. We are prepared for it to face opposition just as when the Hartling government carried out the necessary reforms, even though the trade union movement and the left then baptized them the black settlement. Or in 1984 under Schlüter, where the trade union movement launched a major campaign claiming that the Schlüter government's reform policy resulted in the social mass grave. But the truth is that we have often and with a broad majority built a society where there is room for the public sector to grow and where the Danes have become richer. The number of public employees has almost doubled from 475,000 in Hartling's time in 1974 to 817,000 in 2014. At the same time, the average income for the Danes has risen from DKK 200,000. for 358,000 kroner. at constant 2014 prices. Have the changes led to both stronger public welfare and more private welfare? Yeah, quite clearly. So when the criticism sets in, you have to remember that it is an automatic reaction to change. That is why I think things should be put in perspective. So we are very far from a financial law which is black or opens social mass graves. Total public expenditure in 2016 amounts to just over 1,000 billion. kr. The reprioritisation of the Finance Act is equivalent to moving around at 3⁄4 per cent. of total public expenditure. We adapt development aid by approx. 2.3 billion kr., but we will still be in the absolute top of aid donors in OECD No. Five in sequence. We are adjusting research expenditure by 1.4 billion. kr., but will still spend 20 billion. kr. Total research in the public sector. We are still complying with the EU's target to use 1%. of GDP on research, and we will continue to be at the absolute top of OECD countries giving priority to public research. We are introducing a re-prioritisation contribution of 1%. in the municipalities. However, municipal service expenditure still stands at 237 billion. kr. in 2016, where we have returned 1.9 billion. kr. to the welfare of the municipalities. In the coming years, we will continue to consider how the proceeds from the re-prioritisation contribution are to be used, including the increase in welfare, among other things. in the municipalities. We normalize the re-prioritisation contribution in the State field so that it also covers education and training in the future ■ a total of 700 million. kr. in 2016 but we will still spend more than 50 billion. kr. annual on education and SU. We will adjust the appropriations in the green area by approx. 200 million kr. in 2016, but we will still be among the world's leaders on the switch to renewable energy and spend 10 billion. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). Of course, you can also look at this in another way: for an ordinary LO family with 449,000 kroner in available amounts, the total reprioritisation is equivalent to a family priority of 3,000 DKK. a year or 250 kroner. a month. It is not a matter of giving the family less money, but of using it differently. It is clear that it can be felt, but it will probably be manageable for most. Another example: the adaptation of the research budget is equivalent to a little more than 6% of our priorities. of total public research expenditure. For the LO family, this is equivalent to going from spending DKK 4,800. a year to e.g. leisure activities for just under DKK 4,500; a year. Again, it is not a matter of having less money between your hands, but of perhaps turning down leisure activities and spending a little more on the food budget or the holiday. For it is true, both in the family and in the state's household budget, that one must constantly consider how to give priority to spending one's money. All in all, it must be said that it is a financial law with clear priorities, but it is also fairly balanced. I would like to sign for the speakers from Jacob Jensen, René Christensen, Ole Birk Olesen, Brian Mikkelsen and Martin Lidegaard, who all acknowledge the economic facts in Denmark. Then there may be differences of opinion and different proposals on what to do, but we agree on the basis, and that is absolutely crucial. To Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Aleqa Hammond, I would like to say that I am pleased with the calls for us to discuss Danish-Greenlandish community issues with each other and that it is important that we can do so without prejudice. After all, we are in a community, and Denmark must engage in Greenlandic relations. I fully agree with that. Greenland faces a massive economic challenge in the coming years, which is why it is absolutely crucial that Greenland tackles the consolidation of the economy. It is clear, as Aleqa Hammond also said, that there is an increasing interest in the Arctic area. There are raw materials interests, there are shipping routes that will be possible due to climate change, and there is, of course, the massive build-up that is taking place in the Arctic. That is why we are currently working on an analysis to see what the challenge is and will be in the coming years. I have taken note of the comments that have been made, among other things. on the state of justice in Greenland, and these are some of the things that we must engage in discussions on. To Magni Arge and Sjúrður Skaale I will sign for their comments and then lighten the hat for the courage that the posts radiated. It is clear that we are in the community together, we must respect each other, and together we must develop Denmark as a good society. Let me sum up: as the cashier's check-out showed, there is a very narrow framework for the state's economy. We have to give priority to this, and we do. We give priority to responsible economic policy; we give priority to a significant increase in health, help for demented, elderly and weak patients; we give priority to growth throughout the country; we give priority to business and jobs. And then there are other things we don't give priority to: It is among other things that Denmark must always be extra ahead of, for example. development aid. So this has resulted in a responsible financial law, in which we honour the promises we made to the elections, within the framework of an economically responsible policy, where new initiatives are financed crown-to- kroner, and where we create air to the budget law deficit limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022164820	Thank you. A lot of people have asked to ask questions. The first in line is sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022164828	The minister himself uses the term new normal about balancing in 2020. I'll get back to that. First of all, however, I would like to point out that it is quite funny that the Minister is using the concept of new normal, since, as you know, it was an advertising campaign for the country's largest financial institution, a campaign which was supposed to cover up the fact that consumers had significantly deteriorated conditions and that the fees were raised quite significantly. In the end, the management of the bank chose to drop the campaign, and it must be said that this was also due to the fact that it was probably the worst advertising campaign that has been carried out in recent Danish advertising history. It's just to make it clear. It is not because I say that the Minister necessarily carries out the worst publicity campaign. We can talk about this later However, about this, that it should be something new, that you have a 2020 plan that aims to balance by 2020, I would say: that is not new, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022164938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022164939	No, it's not, and fortunately for it. This is, after all, one of the things we are looking for in the economy and which is a force: we are working together to ensure a balance between revenue and expenditure. What my reproach is about, and where I think new normal is not appropriate, is that the previous government was constantly running on the threshold of deficits. A structural deficit of 0.5% was budgeted. We can now see that the EU's 3% deficit limit has been reached on the actual balance. And that's where I say it shouldn't be new normal that you drive on those borders all the time, because a little swing makes us end up on the wrong side. That is why the government has given priority to taking the first step towards consolidating that we are getting away from the deficit line.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165035	But is it not also the case that, as a result of the 2020 plan, we are also working on real growth targets, and as a result, of course, we must also look at the financial bill itself and see what real growth is in the coming years. If it is not also true, the Minister must confirm that there is in fact not 0.6 but 0.7 per cent. in average real growth from 2016 to 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165104	I have noticed that the Social Democrats have fallen in love with it, but the fact is that in 2016 there is nothing. Then it may be that sir... Benny Engelbrecht can be pleased that when we get to 2019 and 2020, something is going to happen. But the hard facts are that in 2016 there is no room for anything. That is why we are left with the task of financing all initiatives crown to crown.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165140	The next question is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165145	Thank you for your speech to the Minister of Finance. We have had a debate today which has been a little bit about the fact that while the government with one hand shifts public jobs from the state into rural areas, savings are made, among other things. in the green field, in the field of education, which costs training places and costs private jobs in rural areas, with the other hand. Has the Minister of Finance considered whether he should perhaps look at it again in the light of the fact that he is now going to make a larger plan? That is my one question. My second question is, in relation to the fact that the Minister of Finance mentioned that 10 billion had been set aside. kr. in the green area of the Finance Act. Where do they stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165230	The 10 billion comes partly from the 4.6 billion. kr., which is given in support of various conversions, and then we have a PRS tax which brings about a good 6 billion. kr., which goes for the same purposes. Therefore, the total cost of the green conversion is 10 billion. kr., and of the 10 billion. kr. Then we save 200 million. kr. The reason I mention these things is because we are constantly confronted with the fact that it is all one great valley of wailing. However, when we have the task of ensuring a sustainable economy, we are trying to balance the initiatives we are taking in a proper and fair way. And we think we have done that with this financial bill we have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165328	I know the so-called PRS is not on the Finance Act and has never been. After all, it is a contribution that electricity consumption in Denmark has always paid, even before we had wind turbines, to ensure that there are also production facilities in the future. So it certainly has nothing to do with the Finance Act as long as we can agree on it. But the strange thing about the 200 million. kr., which the government then saves, is that with surgical precision cuts on what benefits rural areas. You cut the ecological advice, you cut the projects that would provide cheaper district heating in rural areas and rural municipalities, you cut Samsø Energy Academy, to say something quite specific, so that things could germinate and fertilise increased economic growth in rural areas. And I simply do not understand that is the priority on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165415	I've got to tell Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, that it is true that the 6.3 billion. kr., companies and consumers will have to pay in PSP in 2016, not included in the Finance Act, but nevertheless it is money that is spent on the green transition and on the green effort. And there is just to say that consumers can, in a sense, be indifferent to whether it is in the Finance Act or whether it is through other legislation that they have to get rid of the money. I'm just trying here to balance the picture that we were going to do a massacre on the green investments. So, as I said, this is 200 million. kr. out of 10 billion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165501	Thank you. The next question is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165505	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Finance for the review of the day. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance about border controls. It is also part of the police settlement that we will have to make later and where the framework should be put precisely in the Finance Act. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance if the Minister for Finance is not proud of the settlement we previously made together, i.e. the Danish People's Party and among others. also left, back in 2011, where there was border control for a short period • in July, August and September. 3 months in 2011. When we look at drugs, we can see that there was a very, very large seizure of 3.7 tonnes over 3 months. When we look at weapons, we can see that 293 pieces were seized. weapons. When we look at amounts of money that could not be given, we see that almost 7 million were found. kr. Does the Minister for Finance not think that the controls at the 2011 border were a success?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165605	I have to say that just to this point, I cannot help but smile at the political reactions that were on top of the agreement we made in 2011. We agreed now I don't remember the figure exactly • that about 80 customs officers had to be hired around. And in view of what we have been experiencing in Europe in recent times, what we did at that time seems very, very modest. And I kind of recognize it, sir. René Christensen says about the effect of that. I think we should just take this as an example of how many people have realised that there are some problems with cross-border crime and that there are some things we need to address. It will then also be one of the themes of the negotiations on a new multi-annual police agreement, namely that we need to look at the problems around the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165712	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165712-2	I would very much like to sign for the Minister's reply here from the Speaker's Office of the Danish Parliament, i.e. that there is a need to look at how we get effective customs controls and police controls at the Danish borders. That is why, of course, we are looking forward to the negotiations, even when we have to set the framework, so that we who are described in general terms what we want to be included in the police settlement that will later be concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165739	It is clear that this will be included. After all, in one of the first meetings we must also hear a little about what the financial framework is about what we have to agree on in the field of police. This applies to counter-terrorism, border problems, burglar crime and mobile devices, etc., that is to say, what has been requested. And then we have to see how we can prioritize this within the framework of the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165808	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165811	Although the Minister for Finance was too upset to sign for the speakers from the political opponents, I would like to sign for the Minister for Finance's speech. Thank you for that, Minister of Finance. After all, the Minister for Finance has today reached an agreement on daily allowances, and I would like to commend the Minister for Finance for that. It was really cheap, I guess. A few years ago, when the Minister for Finance made an allowance reform, at least 3 billion were cut. kr. The Minister for Finance, when he was supposed to sit down with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, got away with a paltry 300 million. kr. to correct the damage caused by that reform. I think that's really nice work. Maybe less handsome of those who sat across the street. After all, one thing is negotiating technique, another is the responsibility of the electorate, and before the elections this summer the Prime Minister said: we are not going to tamper with the level of unemployment benefits. What I really just want to ask is whether the Minister of Finance believes that the Left has complied with the promise made by the Prime Minister to the electorate immediately before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022165918	Yeah, I actually think we did. After all, we have now taken the bull by the horns together with the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party and made a politically durable and substantive solution about the daily allowance. In this context, the previous government set up a Commission on Daily Allowances, and that Commission has made a number of proposals. There the circle of parties has decided that this Commission proposal will be made our proposal to cut through the very tumult that has been around the benefit system in recent years. So we have taken the Commission's proposal and will implement it in law and thereby have a safer benefit system. In this context, we have also jointly found funding for this unemployment benefit reform, which is, of course, a rather expensive reform. It amounts to 1.2 billion. kr. In terms of expenditure, we also had to find the funding for that agreement, and we have found it largely within the scheme, but partly - 300 million in other words. kr., outside the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170046	Yes, one-tenth of what was stolen in 2010 has been taken back when the last unemployment benefit reform was made. So I think it's cheaply let go. The Minister of Finance did not answer the question. My question was: does the Left live up to the promise made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen gave the voters when he said just before the election: We are not going to tamper with the daily allowance level. But that's what you do. The level of unemployment benefit for the newly trained people has been tampered with to such an extent, and the level of benefit for the rest of us has been actually tampered with with by the day of marriage. It's really just another word for you getting less a month the months when you have a Karen's Day. So the finance minister must be able to confirm that this is not in line with the promise made by Lars Løkke Rasmussen to the Danes just before the last parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170142	I'm not really aware of whether Mr. Pelle Dragsted is aware of the background to this benefit reform. It came into being after a commission had been set up to make a proposal. I believe that the Commission has made a very sensible proposal, namely that it should be possible for the unemployed to be able to take short-term employment and possibly also less paid work without affecting the calculation of the daily allowance. That Commission has made a proposal, and the government, together with the Social Democrats and with the Danish People's Party, has made that proposal our proposal, and a political agreement has now been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170227	The next question is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170233	I just had to think about what it was I was supposed to ask you about... and it was a reason. After all, we cannot go to the budget debate without apologizing. This is both what we in the Liberal Alliance want and what the Conservative People's Party wants. So I want to hear the Finance Minister's view on this: does the Minister of Finance think that this is a proper way of charging property taxes today when a house of 1.5 million. kr. in Copenhagen is taxed at 32,000 DKK. a year, while a house of 1.5 million. kr. in Løgumkloster is taxed at DKK 12-13,000. A year? Is it reasonable that a house in Copenhagen is taxed two and a half times as hard as a house to 1.5 million? kr. In Løgumkloster?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170318	I will not go into that discussion at all. I note that a proposal has been made on the ground of the draft Finance Act for 2016. I can inform you that a great deal of work is currently under way in order to create a new assessment system, and that is why I would just like to say to Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen, that before I start to comment on these things, I will wait and see what the new system is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170348	Whoever does not want to change the system is in charge of the system. That is why I would like the Minister for Finance's answer as to whether the Minister for Finance and the government want to maintain a system in which a house of 1.5 million is housed. kr. In Copenhagen, two and a half times as hard as a house is taxed at 1.5 million. kr. In Løgumkloster. Is this a system that the government supports and that the government does not want to change, or does the government have the view that we should at some point look at and do something about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170419	Unfortunately, I cannot say this more clearly than I said. There is a lot of work going on in order to create a new assessment system, so it must surely be an answer to the question of whether we want something else. Yes, we will. We await what that system is about and then we can discuss it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170441	The next question is Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170448	Thank you. Earlier today, we had a discussion about this reprioritisation contribution, which is part of L 2 and L 3, and that is where we also have to deal with the reprioritisation contribution for 2017, 2018 and 2019. I have previously quoted Martin Damm, who is chairman of KL, and who has very clearly pointed out that what has been agreed by KL is 2016. I would just like to know whether the Minister for Finance cannot confirm this and thus confirm that what we are actually discussing today and with L 2 and L 3 gives the government and hence the Minister for Finance the mandate to negotiate future KL agreements, which include a re-priority contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170533	Re-prioritisation contribution of 1% in the municipalities, applicable in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. Then every year municipal negotiations will have to be carried out. We had one here a few months ago, when we were negotiating with the municipalities, and there we returned 1.9 billion. kr. to the municipalities. We shall then have a similar debate, when we come to June next year, on how the economy of the municipalities will look in 2017. Technically, it is the case that the re-priority contribution is included under the state ceiling, but to the extent that money is transferred to the regions or to the municipalities, the state ceiling is lowered and at the same time the municipalities' ceiling is increased. That's the mechanics in this. So there's just to say that for 2016, it will be taken 1.9 billion. kr. Back up. By June next year we will have negotiations with the municipalities on the local economy for 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170650	I am actually pleased with the answer that came from the Minister for Finance. The Minister for Finance had difficulty in recognizing other speakers in the past. I would actually like to acknowledge the answer that came from the Minister for Finance, because I think it is very clear that what Parliament is actually discussing today is also a re-prioritisation contribution for the financial years. That is why I would like to go further in another direction, because there has been a lot of debate about the savings that are being made in education and which the government's Minister for Education is also proposing. I just want to know if the Minister for Finance can't give us a few examples of these so-called corn-fat educations that are supposed to be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170724	After all, we have chosen to make a re-priority contribution to the educational institutions, primarily because education and culture were the only areas that had not been included in the State's re-prioritisation contribution, and there we actually think that everyone should contribute. So there are now re-prioritisation contributions in the regions, there are re-prioritisation contributions in the municipalities, and there are re-prioritisation contributions throughout the territory of the state. I repeat: this government does not consider it its job to put the public sector in concrete, what can I say. We need to be able to constantly re-prioritize. It may be necessary to re-prioritize from the state to the regions or from the municipalities to the regions or from the state to the municipalities. But there has to be that flexibility, because if you do not have the re-priority contribution, that is the same as allowing the concrete to sink over the public sector. I think we should just be prepared for the voters and citizens to expect us to adapt to the new times as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170839	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170846	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, who has, in the last few weeks, had the face of the serious folds and built such a ritual play which has been about the fact that the box was absolutely empty. However, if you peel it away and look at the Treasury's own papers, it is clear that, on average, there is more room for public growth by 2020 than we expected before the elections. That is why my question to the Minister of Finance is just • because I do not assume that it can be disputed on average: with the money that can then be spent on public welfare, should we expect the Minister of Finance to propose a greater increase in public growth in the finance laws in the future, or should that money be spent on something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022170932	Political priorities will, of course, be presented along the way. What is wrong with the Social Democrats' arguments at the moment is that they seem to take it very close to them, like trying to pretend that there is an economic space in 2016. And there is no economic room for manoeuvre in 2016. There is just zero, just as I said in the submission of the financial bill, and that is, in fact, the fact that we are dealing with in 2016. I said at the cashier's checkup, the famous 39 billion. kr., we were involved in the election campaign, where we heard all along that there were 39 billion. kr., which we could use up to 2020, turned out to have shrunk to 31 billion. kr. So, of course, we recognise that there is room for manoeuvre in the years to come, but for 2016, sir. Jens Joel, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171031	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171033	It is, of course, a recognition that the Minister of Finance says: yes, there is more room for manoeuvre. Then perhaps we are also getting there by where we can answer my question: does the Minister of Finance then want the greater room for manoeuvre to be used for welfare, or should the money be spent on something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171108	Unlike Mr. I would like to maintain the freedom of Jens Joel that, when we come to table the financial bill for 2017, I can present the government's political priorities at that time. I know, sir. Jens Joel wants us to spend all the money on increasing public spending. However, I have the view that we need to ensure job creation and employment in this country, and that is why we also need to invest in facilitating the business environment. And we would also very much like to see the tax reduced because all this contributes to growth. I know, sir. Jens Joel is blind in one eye and only sees the public sector increase year by year. But the prosperity of this country is being created in the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171200	The next question is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171207	Thank you. When the Minister presented his draft budget, I noticed that he made a lot of money out of a large zero figure. It has not turned out to be true, so it is also what is being discussed now, but it is not now the zero that the islands of the country have noticed most or which I would like to ask about now. It came as a great surprise for the islands, for Bornholm, for Samsø, for Ærø, for Læsø, for Fanoe, that what the government had prioritized for traffic equality on the islands was just a big around zero to honour the Left's otherwise many promises of cheaper tickets for next year and in the years thereafter. The government talks a lot about growth and employment throughout the country. We heard it in the speech today too. The previous government proposed giving priority to 133 million. kr. for cheaper tickets, because we know that it provides growth and employment on the islands of the country. The mayors of the islands have also pointed out that this is absolutely, absolutely essential. Back in May, the Minister's party colleague and the current Minister for Transport were then asked about the proposal for the 133 million. kr. to which he said "and I quote: Yes, that is exactly the model we have proposed; we have said that this is the model we are going to have. So when will the government fulfill that promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171315	I think there are financial law negotiations at the moment, where that will then be one of the issues being negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171325	That didn't make you much smarter. The Minister for Transport referred many times yesterday to the Minister for Finance, because it had to be the Minister here who knew all about the government's policy in this area. At any rate, I understand that the government has no difficulty in presenting other clear priorities in its draft budget, which we can also read on the front page, but obviously not so clear priorities in terms of transport equality. There is otherwise money for the housing job scheme and cheaper tickets over Storebælt. Is it the case that the islands must understand that it is more important for the Left than the cheaper tickets to the islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171401	I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. But as Finance Minister, I probably cannot stand here and negotiate the Finance Act. Of course, we also focus on transport to and from the ears, but that is part of the negotiations at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171418	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171427	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for Finance for a fine speech. I recognise that I have not been on the fine list, but I would like to sign with the Minister of Finance. After all, it is no secret that in the alternative we think it is right, really a pity, that the environment and climate are being cut, that education and research are being cut and that aid for developing countries is being cut. After all, we think it is incredibly short-term because we know that it is one of the things that should help create growth in the future in Denmark. There's a lot of jobs in this. The European Commission says that there are 20 million jobs up to 2020 in it, and when you look at all the aid from developing countries, we know that if we do nothing about it, more refugees will be added and more climate refugees will also be added in the future. The reason why I stand up is because the Minister allowed himself to compare the Danish state with a private enterprise. And a private enterprise, at least the companies I know of, is also able to think long-term and look at where the future market is and think innovatively. I recognise that the box will of course have to vote fairly regularly, but it is difficult for me to understand that the minister will not help to see how we ensure these things also forward-looking so that we can create jobs and growth in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171546	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171550	In fact, this is what I consider to be my main task as Minister of Finance, i.e. to ensure the future of Danish society. I tried to draw attention to the hard facts of the iron industry. We come up with the European Union's three-percent deficit on the actual balance. The previous government planned that we should reach the threshold of the structural deficit of 0.5%, and we have a common objective that by 2020 we should have a balance between revenue and expenditure. These are the three things which, after all, form the framework of economic policy. And there I also think that a private company would pursue exactly the same policy and ensure that the economy and the economic foundations of the company were in order. I would like to point out that we still have a deficit of 57 to 60 billion. kr. that we spend more every year. That is just where I say that we also have to think long-term, namely that we have a balance between revenue and expenditure. I think any private company would have that as a guideline, and at least its bank would have that focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171711	I guess I don't quite agree with what it means to think long-term. But it is also a matter of priority within the room for manoeuvre that then exists, and there is what we in the alternative think there is a wrong priority in that room for manoeuvre. So it's really mostly a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171732	I fully recognise that we have different priorities. We have the priority of walking on two legs. On the one hand, we must ensure the core welfare, but on the other hand, we must also ensure jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171746	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171755	The Minister for Finance said that the re-priority contribution was not about spending less money, but about spending the money on something else. In this context, however, it is important to know what that money will be used for, and I would like that money to be spent on welfare. So compared to 2017, where 2.4 billion is being taken. kr. from the municipalities and placed in the treasury, the Minister for Finance will then guarantee that the 2.4 billion will not be spent. kr., before the municipality agreement for 2017 is negotiated with the Municipality of Landsforening in June 2016? Otherwise, we risk being used by the 2.4 billion. kr., before there is a negotiation with the National Association of Municipalities, and if you have spent money before meeting the National Association of Municipalities in a negotiation, you have less than the 2.4 billion. kr., as there is in the re-prioritisation contribution, and then, in fact, money has already been taken from welfare and spent on something else, for example. tax relief that the Left would like to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022171859	Now we're talking about 2017, aren't we? I mean, it's the re-priority contribution for 2017. After all, we do not use this re-priority contribution in 2016. If we used it in 2016, we would come into conflict with all sorts of deficit limits. That is why the idea is that we should have municipal negotiations and that we should have regional negotiations, which we usually have in June, when we then discuss and negotiate with the municipalities what the financial framework should be after. I would like to repeat that. My starting point is not to cast the public sector into concrete. There must be room in a modern society for us to move and prioritise too, but this has also been done in respect of municipal autonomy, and the fact that we have negotiations on the economy of the municipalities is the strength of what we have done, namely that we sit down at the negotiating table with the municipalities and discuss what is needed and what the challenges are and how we should prioritise in the coming years. So that is, in fact, a motivation and a guarantee of the negotiating system. The alternative would of course be that we put local self-government out of effect, and then we decided in here what exactly it would be like. But that's not my ideal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172029	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172032	I don't think the Minister of Finance understood my question. I think, moreover, that it is in fact a lack of respect for municipal autonomy that you go out and take that money from the municipalities. I do not know a single municipality which does not have an efficiency catalogue every year, looking at how to increase productivity and efficiency. This is already happening today. What my question is about is that when the government meets the National Association of Municipalities for negotiations in June 2016, the Minister of Finance will then guarantee that until then the Minister of Finance has not used the re-priority contribution for 2017 of 2.4 billion, for example. has not used the money for a tax reform where relief is given by the top tax? Because that would mean that by then, in June 2016, for 2017, there would be 2.4 billion. kr. to negotiate in terms of welfare. So will the Minister of Finance guarantee that the 2.4 billion taken from the municipalities will not be tampered with before there has been a negotiation with the National Association of Municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172133	Of course, there must be a debate on the economy of the municipalities. That is the whole purpose of this system that we have, namely that we can discuss what is needed. But I just want to say again that I do not share the view of Enhedslisten that today we have found the ideal state of the distribution of money. I believe that we can move the funds around, that we should be able to move the funds around, that we can move funds from one sector to another, depending on the challenges we face. So that's why we're just fundamentally different in these things. For what Enhedslisten wants is to freeze concrete all over because we have found the very best state of things and all changes can only get worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172227	The next question is Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172234	I'd like to talk about the municipal economy. After all, the Finance Minister writes in the foreword to the Finance Act that priority is given to core welfare. It was also said several times during the speech that one wants to strengthen the core welfare. Then I would like to ask what the Minister of Finance defines as core welfare. What we have to see is that by far the largest part of the core welfare is provided in the municipalities, and with the agreement made with the municipalities for 2016, a minus growth has actually been introduced in the municipalities, and the municipalities have 0.5 billion. kr. less to provide service for. If it is the case that the Minister of Finance does not believe in my words, then I can only refer to several mayors from the Finance Minister's own party who clearly say that negative growth will mean deterioration in core welfare, such as schools and day care institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172335	It is also one of the discussions that amazes me a great deal. The municipalities will receive 237 billion next year. kr. to core welfare. An average municipality, I think, has a budget of 2.4 billion. kr. a year. When it comes to re-prioritising 5 million. kr. or 10 million kr., or how many million kroner it is now, the argument always goes on that it is on the core welfare, as if everything the municipalities provide is nuclear welfare. In my opinion, it is not. There are many other tasks which the municipalities solve, which cannot be described as core welfare. That's why it's a little bit of a pretty fictional discussion. I understand, of course, the arguments put forward by the municipalities, because it is nice to be able to ask whether it is the sick, the old, the blind or the bad that must be done, because it is a particularly effective means of discussion, but the municipalities are doing much more than nuclear welfare. For me, health and the elderly are the main focus when we talk about core welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172450	I can therefore say that schools and day-care institutions are not at the heart of the welfare of the Minister of Finance, but leave it at that. I just want to point out that if we do the equation where you remove 2.4 billion. kr. and gives 1.9 billion. kr. So there's 0.5 billion left. kr. less to run the municipalities. I know with my background approx. Twenty-two years in local politics that it is the case that a very large proportion of the municipalities' budgets are legally bound, so there is actually a very small percentage left to be prioritised by the municipalities. Therefore, with a minus growth of 0.5 billion. kr. be in the core welfare, the municipalities will be prioritising.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172532	I just want to say that when you follow this area, it is thought-provoking how much difference there is between what the municipalities provide for the money. There are some people who can run a public school for 100,000 kroner. less per student per year; years, without you going in and looking at the results of the students, you can read that there is a clear correlation between how much money they spend on teaching per year. students, and the results obtained by the students. The questioner can take the area of employment. There are some municipalities that are really, really good at getting people into employment, and there are other municipalities that are not really, really good at it, and it all costs money. So if efforts were to be made more effectively in the municipalities, I am quite sure of that, and some of these reports that have been made show that there are many billions to be retrieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172627	The next question is Mrs Annette Lind, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172634	Thank you. I would just like to remind you that the rapporteur for the Left actually said that education is core welfare, but leave it at that. Denmark needs many more skilled people in the future, and we have an ambitious target of 25 per cent. of all young people must take vocational training by 2020. We have just done a vocational training reform and launched it this autumn, and we have found money together. At the same time the Left drives right over with a green harvester, so you go with one hand and give with the other. What I want to ask is about this 100 million. kr. to internships promised by the Left. They have disappeared and have been replaced by savings. Wouldn't the Minister of Finance call it a breach of his word?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172713	I would just like to say that, for me, it is absolutely crucial that when we have a very, very tight economy, we also have to see where we can free up some funds, and there we have chosen the instrument that we are now introducing a 2% re-prioritisation contribution across the territory of the state, and we have introduced a 1% re-prioritisation contribution. in the municipalities. This is one of the ways of freeing up funds. But we still share the ambition to strengthen vocational education and training fully and strongly. For it is quite true that we will be desperately short of skilled labour in the coming years, but when we look at the overall economy, we think it is very sensible and balanced to introduce this re-priority contribution in the whole area of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172821	I am very pleased that the Minister for Finance recognises that we need more skilled workers. There can be no doubt about that. The left will now spend 1 billion. kr. on the housing job scheme. At the same time, the Left says that we are forced to save on vocational training. In other words, on the one hand, you have to create a housing job scheme for business and, on the other hand, you have to save on vocational training. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172847	This is, of course, linked to the fact that when you re-prioritize, you also have to look at the total expenditure in the field of education. In fact, we spend a great many billion dollars a year in this area, and that is why I think it is quite balanced and sensible that we should also contribute to re-prioritisation in the field of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172918	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022172932	Like Mr. Pelle Dragsted, I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Finance on today's allowance agreement. It is rare that you are allowed to correct some of the challenges you have been involved in creating, and one of the great benefits of today's agreement is that, contrary to the agreement in 2010, this has happened to a broad circle of parties, and you have even invited us with what you didn't do last time. Had it been done then, it would have gone far better. At least we'll say yes to the invitation. But when I hear the finance minister today say that the old government always went to the borders, I just want to ask where the finance minister actually found that billions of dollars for the housing job scheme this year, 2015. If we had committed everything to the borders, then the Minister for Finance must be able to tell us how the housing job scheme has been financed. Where was the billion kroner that went to reinstate the housing job scheme in 2015, all the time that we have to understand that all the money was committed to the limit of the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173028	I just have to stick to the misunderstanding that prevails all around. When we talk about 2016, 2016 is characteristic of the fact that there is no money in 2016. 2016 is not 2015, and that is, in fact, where you just have to keep the concepts clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173059	Now the Minister for Finance says he has to stick to a misunderstanding. I cannot recommend that in general. After all, we need to avoid misunderstandings and get out of a delusion. The Minister for Finance said that the previous government went all the way to the borders and that it should not become the new state. Nevertheless, one billion kroner was taken out of the box, and before one had been in the government offices for a week, it had been distributed to the Danes this year, 2015. I am simply saying that either the Minister of Finance can tell us where the billion kroner came from, or one must accept that at least one billion kroner was in the box and that the previous government had not gone entirely to the limits, but on the contrary had a billion kroner in the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173144	Sir. Morten Østergaard, in 2016 you will come up and hit the EU's actual 3-percent deficit balance. I also believe that it will be over 3%. In 2016, we are also stirred, unless we then consolidate the economy. The budget was set at 0.5%. on the structural balance. So I call that driving to the border, and what I think one can blame the former Minister for Economic Affairs is that the former Minister for Economic Affairs did not start consolidation until 2020 at an earlier stage, but like thought that new normal should be that just budgeting on the border was all right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173236	Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor of the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173244	Thank you. I'd like to ask you something. In the Left in many ways interesting and excellent games • All young people well from the start • you can among other things. read that the Left wants to see and I quote that a total of 100 million will be set aside. kr. for more internships so that more young people can carry out vocational training in a company. I assume that the Minister for Finance was fully involved in the fact that before the elections the Left went out and promised 100 million. kr. for more internships in vocational schools. I noticed in the Minister for Finance's speech today that something was mentioned on several occasions about what we promised in the election campaign and what we went to the polls on. But the 100 million. kr., as the Left promised before the election campaign, has now disappeared and has instead been replaced by savings of 2%. If the Minister of Finance does not think that this is a breach of the law, would he not be so kind as to clarify what he said to my colleague before, namely that it is balanced and sensible for a green harvest to be carried out in addition to vocational training? I think there are many in vocational schools who would be interested in getting an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173400	There was, of course, the fact that in the election campaign we all thought that there was room for manoeuvre of 39 billion. kr., for it led the previous government election campaign for there to be. This room for manoeuvre is, of course, common to all of us, and that is why, when we entered the government offices, we were able to see that this room for manoeuvre had been reduced to 31 billion. kr., and we found that from 2016 there was no room for anything. That is why it has to be said that we cannot, of course, fulfil all our promises on the current terms. This does not mean that we have run away from our promises, but the pace in which we can carry out our promises will, of course, be longer when the money that the previous government went and told the voters and the people was available is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173506	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173509	Regardless of how the Minister of Finance turns and turns it, and no matter what excuses the Minister of Finance has, the so-called re-priority contribution means that the savings exceed investment. The Left rapporteur, Anni Matthiesen, admitted this to Ritzau two days ago. As the Minister of Finance knows, vocational schools are undergoing major changes and investments, because the vocational school reform has just entered into force here on 1 August, and this is a reform which both the Left and the Socialists are very pleased about. But it is something that is costly for vocational schools, and I would therefore like to ask: does the Minister of Finance believe that with the two-percent green harvester savings in the Left, we can meet the target of 25%? (i) the choice of vocational training by a youth year? And does the Minister of Finance believe that the Left will live up to what the Left promised in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173614	This is clearly something we have promised and wanted to go to the polls on, but as I tried to explain before, it turned out that there were no funds available. There's 3 billion. kr. less in 2016, and it leaves us, of course, with the task that the things we thought we could do if we won the election, we cannot do at the same rate when the money is missing. And that is why we have to say that we still have these objectives, but we have to achieve it at a rate that the economy allows.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173649	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173656	Thank you. After all, the Minister of Finance mentioned agriculture in his speech, and I think there is good reason for this, because conventional agriculture is in a deep, deep crisis, because even the most efficient pig producers are no longer earning money and several thousand of them are on the brink of bankruptcy. At the same time, we see organic farming that has a very good economy, pig farmers earn good money, and all sectors of production are very good. The sale of organic products is growing rapidly; it is on the domestic market, among other things. because of a large number of aid schemes that we have been implementing for many years, and that is also in growth on export markets. I simply have to ask the Minister for Finance whether he really believes that we can save conventional farming, which has such a poor economy, by allowing farmers to pour a little more manure into the fields and by removing the peripheral areas. And what message does the Minister of Finance think it sends when, just as ecology is about to get hold of and speed up, we drop the ecological objectives and send the clear signal to the industry that the government does not want to give priority to the ecology?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173808	It is up to each farmer to decide whether to be an organic farmer or whether to be a conventional farmer. But when the questioner asks if I believe anything, I just want to say that I am fighting to get the agricultural industry going, because the agricultural industry is really, really important to employment in this country, and not least when we are discussing the wrong Denmark, because there is a proper production on the farms really, very much for employment. And we can see at the moment that agriculture is experiencing a serious economic crisis, and that is why we also need to look at whether we can ensure that the industry is able to achieve a better framework in order to get profits going. Quite a lot of farmers are sitting in it economically, very heavily, and that means that economic activity in rural areas is falling, and that is where I believe it is my duty to help ensure that the framework conditions remain, so that we can get the industry going again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173923	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022173926	We fully agree that we must have an agricultural industry. The question is what kind of agricultural activity should be, and I think that, as Minister of Finance, one must bother to look at who is actually earning money. Who is actually creating jobs? And it is totally naive to believe that the 16-point plan that has been launched will save a sector and an industry that has such red figures on the bottom line and where even the very best can no longer make money, and to believe that what is going to save them is that they can produce more feed when we already spend 80% of it. of our agricultural land to produce feed. We could use all the means we are now setting aside and all the political initiatives that we are setting in motion to get the ecologists up even more, but we are not doing so; we are choosing to abandon ecological objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174017	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174020	Now I think that the individual farmer, the individual trader, is best placed to decide for himself how to run your business and how best to secure it financially. And that is the difference between me and Enhedslisten, for Enhedslisten always knows what is best for all people, and therefore Enhedslisten wants to decide. I dare not think the idea that Enhedslisten had the opportunity to implement its programme, for then many companies would go bankrupt in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174056	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174058	It would probably have been worse if it were the Minister of Finance who decided everything. What the Minister for Finance has said is that the Left and the Government give priority to business and jobs, and we have then got some figures that the Minister believes that only 200 million will be saved. kr. in the green area. It has also been mentioned that the Minister believes that 10 billion is being spent. kr. on green conversion. In order to get that figure right, the Minister would have to bring in some PRS taxes, which are not part of the Finance Act at all. So it just needed a little green cellophane to wrap it all up. If you look at what is of real savings, then we have among other things. the research and development funds, the EUDP funds, which are cut from 385 million in the draft budget. kr. to 53 million kr. That alone is a saving of 332 million. kr. I would recommend that the government read the evaluation that has just come of how the funds have been spent in 2014, where 75 new energy technology projects and 15 cooperation projects under the International Energy Agency have been supported. It is not the Enhedslisten that will determine the development. It is, in fact, a question of having some means for business to seek and of continuing sustainable development. I would like to ask the Minister: why does the government want to save EUDP funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174213	I'm just gonna have to get to the green area thing. I fully recognise that there must be a green transition and that Denmark must be a frontrunner in it. But in Denmark there must also be companies other than green companies, and I am so surprised by the discussions we have here. Now I think there are a few million people out on the Danish labour market. And I see in Denmark's Statistics publication • Green goods and services from January 2015 that the number of people employed in green goods and services has been calculated, and it appears that in 2012 60,282 people were employed, while in 2013 it had fallen to 57,953 in that area. Then I would remind you that when I have a concern that it is the entire business community that should have proper framework conditions, there are therefore almost 2 million people working with everything else. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't give priority to the green, because of course we have to do it and we have some positions of strength. But we also just have to talk about the problems in Denmark in such a way that it reflects the full realities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174345	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174348	That is clear, and it is really dangerous when politicians want to do something that they have come up with, for example. such a housing job scheme at 1 billion. The Commission is also aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action in this area. I simply cannot understand why the Left will burn the green driver's shirt that we have here in Denmark. I think it would be interesting to have the savings made in the green area in the draft budget put forward in relation to the questions we are now going to ask and the answers we can get here at the beginning of November so that it can become part of the further process. I really think it might be appropriate to know what the negative employment effect is by saving over 300 million. kr. These research and development funds are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174427	Well, that would be very well suited to a written question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174432	There are no requests for any further brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151022174456	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 23 October 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
