ParlaMint-DK_20150224130000	The meeting is open. As previously notified, 1. B 41, which is listed as item 3 from today's agenda. There is also the following review: Steen Gade (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 77 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the extension of the right of appeal). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130038	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130101	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130132	Thank you, President. After all, we are voting here today on the joint motion for a resolution on the establishment of a youth court for young people between the ages of 12 and 17. I would, of course, like to thank you for the first reading we had in this Chamber of the proposal. We had hoped that the government might not support the proposal as it stands, but at least would go further into discussions on the establishment of a kind of juvenile court, since the current Minister of Justice has previously advocated something similar to a juvenile court at the time of opposition. But now we have to understand that the former opposition parties who are now in government do not mean that. It is fair enough to change your mind, but we now find it a pity, because there is a need to deal with a core of juvenile criminals who commit quite serious crimes and who are not being dealt with today. Young people in Denmark commit less and less crime, and that is welcome, but there is a core that continues to commit quite serious crime, and since we first dealt with the resolution here in the Assembly, Politiken has written on 1 February this year about a study that Danske Regioner has carried out, in which it is written that there is in fact a very, very violent relapse among juveniles under 18 years of age who end up in a secure institution. It is actually the case that three out of four, i.e. almost 75%. by juvenile criminals who are sentenced to sit in a secured institution, open or closed, have relapsed within a 2-year period. It is a study that has been carried out from 2010 and the years ahead, where 531 young people have been placed in a secure institution between 1 August 2010 and 31 July 2012, and the return to crime could therefore be measured until the turn of 2013, and unfortunately three out of four are returning to new crime. In other words, it certainly tells us bourgeois parties that the system we have is not good enough. We have also seen a large number of specific cases where the system we have does not deal very much with juvenile criminals. So it is gratifying that less crime is being committed among young people in general, but the system we have today does not deal with the residual group where, unfortunately, some also commit quite serious crime. We also see that there are crimes committed by young people even down to the age of 12, too, quite serious crime. That is why, of course, we in the bourgeois parties support the proposal we have put forward ourselves in this Chamber today and hope that the government will consider what will then be done in relation to this group of young people. Now we bourgeois parties have given a very, very clear and consistent response to the challenge of crime by young people between the ages of 12 and 18, and the government recognises that the system we have has some shortcomings. Now we would like some answers from the government if we did not want to support our resolution. So far, we thank you for the debate and discussion in the Folketing and look forward at a later stage to perhaps resubmitting this resolution in a modified form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130506	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130515	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 49 (V, DF, LA and KF), against 55 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130555	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130621	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130641	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-10, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130659	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130715	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130734	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130752	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130818	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130835	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee, so if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130854	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130909	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. There is also a proposal to refer the bill back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130928	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224130957	The debate is open. Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224131043	With the proposal, B 43, the proposers will require the government to prepare a national survey of nursing homes and nursing homes in Denmark by the end of April. I would like to start by signing for the Enhedslisten's proposal for a national study of the conditions in the country's nursing home. The government can thus support the ideas behind the initiative. We also think it is a good idea to get a more comprehensive overview of what it looks like in nursing homes and care centres. I am sure that we all agree that we must provide a very good framework for the residents who live in our nursing homes and that we must, of course, have competent staff who can provide very good care. Therefore, it is also important that the efforts made at nursing homes in the best possible way support the possibility for residents to maintain as much influence and participation as possible in their own lives. That is why, in the government, we are pursuing a social policy that must help to develop and safeguard our welfare society in the future, a social policy in which we are keeping our hands under groups of weak elderly people who are unable to cope with themselves, a policy that supports the well-being of nursing homes and, above all, their quality of life. A number of analyses and initiatives have been carried out in recent years on nursing homes and nursing homes. In 2012, for example, the Elder Commission's report on quality of life and self-determination came in nursing homes and nursing homes. The Commission received, inter alia: a research-based study on the quality of life of nursing homes, and the study showed that moving into a nursing home significantly improves the quality of life of residents and that the vast majority of nursing homes have a high quality of life. The quality of life by moving to nursing homes will be among other things. much better with regard to personal care, the experience of feeling safe and having control over your own everyday life. The study also showed that it is more difficult for nursing homes to improve the quality of life of residents when it comes to social contact and, of course, also to participation in activities. As a follow-up to the Elders' Commission report, a programme on the quality of life and self-determination in nursing homes was therefore launched. As part of the programme, the employees and their middle managers became among others. It was also examined how volunteers can help increase the number of activities in nursing homes as well. The government has also implemented a number of other initiatives which have improved conditions in nursing homes. With the 2014 Finance Act, municipalities have been given a permanent economic boost of 1 billion. kr. annually to the area of the elderly, and we know that the municipalities have used a good proportion of the elderly billion in both 2014 and 2015 to improve the conditions for the nursing home residents. The money is among other things. used for better standards in the evening hours, competence development of staff and, in fact, also to get more life at nursing homes. It is also estimated that about two out of three nursing home residents suffer from dementia and that the number will increase in the coming years. That is why, most recently with the 2015 Rate Pool Agreement, we have allocated funds for a number of initiatives, including: to improve the conditions of the demented nursing homes and the staff's knowledge of dementia. For example, funds have been set aside for the creation of travel teams with expertise in dementia to support selected dementia key people in nursing homes, as well as for a project on a tool to target the care of demented people, which will strengthen the opportunities for nursing staff to adapt care efforts precisely to the individual needs of the demented residents. In addition, the rate pool agreement includes, among other things: allocated 50 million. kr. for dementia of existing nursing homes, so that a larger part of the nursing homes takes into account the special needs of dementees. A more detachable interior design can include: contribute to preventing situations which lead to the use of force and to preventing dementation from slipping away. We already have part of the knowledge about the conditions in nursing homes, and on the basis of that knowledge we have initiated a number of initiatives. Having said that, it is clearly my feeling that there is a broad consensus that we need to continue to focus on how municipalities and individual nursing homes and care centres address the challenges of ensuring well-being and quality in the care of the weakest elderly. That is why, as I also mentioned at the outset, I agree with the intentions behind this proposal from the Enhedslisten which we are discussing today. This is also the reason why I am initiating a national survey that will provide a comprehensive and up-to-date picture of what we know about the conditions in our nursing homes and nursing homes within a short period of time. The study will be based to a large extent on existing knowledge in the field, and the main themes of the study will be the well-being of residents and the possibility of participation in activities, the physical environment, social and health activities, among other things. In relation to the demented residents, the use of coercion, norms, among other things. the number of employees and their training background, as well as how the resources of the nursing home staff are used as much as possible in relation to what is important, namely the care task. It is planned that the results of the study will be presented to all parties of the Folketing at the end of August 2015. As the government itself initiates an investigation into the conditions in nursing homes and nursing homes, the government cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224131721	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224131725	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I am therefore pleased with the positive comments that have been made on the proposal we have put forward. I am also glad that the Minister has apparently been inspired by our proposals. After all, we are not so square in the Enhedslisten that things must absolutely be our way, so it is gratifying that the Minister is then taking the initiative for such a study himself. The time frame, then, is not so much to argue about. I also recognise that 1 April might have been equally optimistic. My question then is whether the Minister would like to convene all the parties of the Folketing to discuss the study which the Minister will undertake. Now we just got some headlines. I thought it sounded very good, but it was perhaps a good idea for all the parties of the Danish Parliament to be called before the study was launched, so that the parties' input to what it is that needs to be investigated could be obtained. I think that would be in line with the spirit we have dealt with this whole issue in the Folketing. I would also like to sign for the meeting we had with the Minister here last week. It was also good to call all parties, knowing that we do not agree on everything, but here we have an important common agenda. That is why I would just like to repeat the question: will the Minister call the parties of the Folketing so that we can give our input on how we think such a study should be carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224131857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224131859	Thank you. I'd like to sign for the receipt. That's right, Enhedslisten is not square, Enhedslisten is positive, and of course I will also sign for that. I think it is a good idea to continue in the positive spirit in which we have dealt with this subject somewhere, and also with the care with which we have also dealt with this whole area, because, as we agreed at our meeting, I think it was last week or last week, this is an area which, as I said in my speech, is a challenge that will be a challenge and to which we will address ourselves. There are really, very many demented people out at the various care centres and, as such, also out at the nursing homes, and of course we have to take care of them. Of course, I would also like the input that is now available from the various parties. I think that is a good idea too. And as we also agreed at the meeting, this is part of our work. Another part of our work is, of course, the common day that we also agreed to hold. Of course, I look forward to it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132007	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132009	Yeah, but then it's gonna be a receipt for a receipt. It is very positive that the Minister is open to this. I think it is extremely important because the best way to get constructive cooperation on this issue is by inviting all parties and allowing them to join in. Then we know that yes, it is the Minister who is ultimately starting the investigation, but a great deal has already been listened to, I think I can hear. In this way, we will make sure that the elderly do not become a football player for a political battle about the conditions in nursing homes. I think this is a positive start to a debate, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132059	I am also looking forward to further work, and I very much welcome the positive spirit in which this has been received. I think so, too, sir. Finn Sørensen is talking about something very important: that no one has acted in a way, so someone gets to use the expression "political ball." Because this is a really serious issue, because it is people that are at stake. This is something we are going to deal with in the future, and the start shot was already taken here a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132136	Then it is Mrs Anne-Mette-Mette Winther Christiansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132139	Thank you. Now the Minister was very detailed in his story, as to what is going to happen and what is being done, and so I get very curious when there is also talk of a demensday. Is it the case that the travel team that is now being sent around is one that the minister himself brings together and that we therefore do not use the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia, which we have otherwise financed through, among other things. the bet pool? It is a research unit in Denmark that delivers a really good job of providing knowledge in the municipalities, everywhere; they have tools that they use to multiply knowledge. I should also like to ask: is it in connection with the Dementia Days which the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia will be holding in May that day, or are we going to have more initiatives this spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132233	I am, in fact, puzzled by the question, because we agreed at the very meeting that Mr. Finn Sørensen actually also refers to keeping a day that isn't about the demensdays, which is in the middle of May, but a day where we focus on this whole area, so perhaps more of a political focus, where we look at making some guidelines, while my starting point is that the dementia days are of a more professional nature. I am quite sure that Mrs Anne-Mette-Mette Winther Christiansen was also there with Mrs Karen Ellemann and that there was also mention of the travelling team and that the knowledge, the specialised knowledge that is now, must of course also be involved in the further work we are going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132320	Mrs. Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132322	I'm so sorry. I sat with the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia at the same hour and got the question: Where are we in all this, because it is so important that we compare knowledge and also know what each other is doing. It is foolish if we constantly do parallel courses, when the municipalities already know today that they can contact the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia; there they get a good start and a short training for both employees and other actors who need to know about dementia. But when the Minister says that the travel team is going out, what about Finn Sørensen's question about the possibility of setting together the agenda for that study? I heard Finn Sørensen asking for a debate where all the parties were invited. I did not hear the Minister say exactly that it is an interest that one has.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132421	So maybe it's a good idea to rewind the film a little bit, 'cause this is gonna be shown. I think I signed for it and also said that it was a good idea to get input from the various parties, as we did last week or last week, when we invited all the rapporteurs. However, I clearly recognise that the Left has two rapporteurs in this area and that it is therefore sometimes one and the other that comes. Of course, this can create a little confusion, and it can only be accommodated by the fact that, in any case, I am counting on it to happen, and that all the material will be sent out to both rapporteurs and that the rapporteurs will, of course, also be able to speak together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132502	Mrs Karin Nødgaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132505	Thank you. We can say that if material is sent out, at least all the parties must be remembered in addition to all the rapporteurs. But I would just like to point out something about this study, which the Minister is now saying must be carried out. We have been aware for a long time that there have been considerable savings around the municipalities in the area of the elderly. I know that the Minister is referring to an elderly billion that has been set aside, but we know that 1.3 billion. kr. In fact, it is also what we see of savings in the area of the elderly in the municipalities. That is why I would really like to hear more. If you get this investigation done, there'll be a result. And then it shouldn't just be on a bookcase. What, then, is to happen next? What does the Minister expect to spend money doing the study; what if it turns out that the results of the study point to something that is going to cost something and where there must be some improvement etc. etc.? How does the Minister intend to bring this all to an end? I think it would be very obvious to hear this before we actually find out whether or not we should vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132602	There's nothing awkward about it. When you start things like this, you will, of course, at some point get some knowledge that you can stand on, and from that knowledge you will make some political decisions. This has been done for many, many years in this house, I know. What it is going to cost is a political balance, and that again depends on what you find out and what results exactly will emerge from that study. How much the study costs, I can't bear that in mind on a stand-by basis, but I can come back to that. With regard to the savings, there are a number of figures, and I would like to pass on some figures. I don't have them right here... they're down on my chair... but as far as I remember, 100 million were spent in 2014. kr. in the area of the elderly, and then the billion came in. Of course, it can be an expression of a great many things. But of course I'll be happy to send those numbers over as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132657	Mrs. Karin Højgård.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132700	Well, I think that would be extremely relevant to get. The Enhedslisten's proposal now says, among other things: Something about staff ratings. And when you get the result of such an investigation, I would then without knowing it immediately assume that it risks showing that the norms are not good enough. We have, of course, had the discussion with the Minister and the Committee on Social Affairs on the use of fabric belts and so on, so that people have been left to themselves, even though they have been in fabric belts and so on. That is to say, I can already see that it will in fact most likely cost something. These must also be some ideas which the Minister has made in relation to this proposal, so I would really like an answer to that. What are we going to do in those areas where we already, by just reading the words, can see that it will probably be something that will be a little costly?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132747	Well, if I had an answer to what I'm going to do in these areas, it would be pretty awkward to start an investigation. Well, it almost goes without saying. After all, we are launching a study to learn more about this matter. And as I also said in some of the last points of my speech, it is precisely the standards, the number of employees, the training background and, of course, how the resources of care centres and nursing homes are used in the best possible way. It is, of course, in all humility that such an investigation should be initiated, and one has no idea what the outcome will be, and one does not of course know what the outcome of the political negotiations will be. Then we have to see what we can agree on, and only then do we know what the economy is, and we cannot bypass that process in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132902	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and then it is Mrs Anne-Mette-Mette Winther Christiansen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224132921	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for raising a very important debate on the conditions in the country's nursing home. In the Left we see that it is important to remember to treat older citizens with respect and responsibility. In concrete terms, the Enhedslisten's proposal provides for a national study of the country's nursing homes and nursing homes, and to quote a few of them it also states that it must reveal conditions for residents of the municipal care homes. The study should include an assessment of the staffing and professional skills of the nursing staff, which has also just been discussed with the Minister and the physical framework. The study shall also include the conditions of the part of the population suffering from dementia. When it's done, we're all gonna meet and see it. I understand that Enhedslisten asks if we could not meet and see it before it is put into effect. The resolution here is based on a number of press stories. Sometimes you don't have to make policy on a single matter, but sometimes it's really useful that we just lift it and use it as a pointer, because it can be a motivator to get an assessment of whether this is something that is more national and whether it is one thing we need to be better at dealing with. When I say that, I am sure it would be surprising if we said afterwards that we do not think that this resolution is what we are going to vote on. I would really like it to be dealt with in committee; I would really like us to do a piece of work on it in relation to the ministry, that we have a report in which we have written our conclusions, that is to say what we as a committee think, because with our report we can also require the government to be clear. I am very concerned about the existing conditions, i.e. what it is like right now, and yes, let's see how we get this study's conclusions in the future. So I was motivated when I heard the Minister's outline of how that study could look. Let us take up the Minister's speech and have a report that hits everything and thereby get action on the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133153	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133157	Thank you. But I would like to make a comment on that straight away, and it is positive in that we will certainly be prepared to have a debate on it in committee. Such an attempt to draw up a joint report could, as the rapporteur says, be accelerated by the Minister's positive commitments, so we will be open to that. Of course, all I have to say is that the criteria we would like to have examined, as we have described here, are, of course, what we want to fight for and which will also be the basis of the study, because we believe that the issues we have mentioned, which should be examined, are those we need to have full common clarity as a condition for us to be able to take good action in this area. So if the rapporteur thinks that there are some things in our proposal that are superfluous or wrong, I would like to hear it immediately, so that you can get an impression of what you say yes to if you say yes to us trying to make a report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133306	Now it is the case that I have just heard the Minister outline something, and I need to look at that in print to get it compared to Enhedslisten's. I may not think that there was a great difference, but let us just compare things, and let us take the committee procedure to discuss and negotiate what we always do. I'm sure we'll get to the bottom of a solution, so we'll get an investigation started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133333	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133336	Thank you. After all, we agree that we can make that attempt, and perhaps it is just such an old injury that you would like to hear right away if there are some things that some have fallen over. After all, there has been plenty of time to read the Enhedslisten's proposal. I understand that we did not all get written so quickly what the Minister said, but we can read that afterwards. But with regard to the political debate on content, it is a luxury situation that we have suddenly come in here, in the sense that from the very beginning, almost before we get started, there is a very positive attitude to doing something in this direction, and then we might as well take the step forward and get the stopper off the bottle. If we've suggested some stupid things, I'd like to discuss it right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133421	I have said that I look forward to taking it in committee, and then let us negotiate and get a report on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133429	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Astrid Krag as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133436	Everyone has the right to a secure and dignified old age. It is a matter of social democracy, and it is one of the pillars of our welfare society. It has always been, and that is why I would just like to say to Mr. Finn Sørensen, that he does not have to sound quite so puzzled that there seems to be a brothering in this Chamber, that we need an investigation and that we also have to act afterwards. Fortunately, we are already well under way. Last year there were almost 45,000 Danes living in nursing homes or in nursing homes targeted by the elderly; of course we are talking about many of our most fragile fellow citizens, for example. It is estimated that two thirds of them suffer from dementia. Of course, we have a special responsibility that these very people who have worked hard through a long life to create the Denmark we know today also get the help they need and that we jointly take care of them now that they can no longer take care of themselves. We have made constant efforts for this as a community, as a community, at the latest with the rate pool agreement in the autumn, when we started several initiatives to help demente and, of course, did so with a much larger amount than has been the case in the past. In the original national action plan for dementia, the then VK government had allocated 30 million. kr. From 2010 to 2014. With the rate pool from November last year, we are further developing that action plan and, fortunately, we are doing so with a much higher amount. From 2015 to 2018, the fourfold, namely 121,4 million has been allocated more precisely. I am not saying that because there is a competition for who can throw most of the money at an area, but because it also says that we can have a much greater weight with the effort we are making. We can go much further than we have been able to do so far. I am sure we agree to welcome that too. These are some means which go partly to the continuation of the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia, and partly to a number of initiatives in the social field, on which we have gathered today. There are, among other things: a pool of just under 18 million. kr. to relieve relatives of demente in their own home; it is really important that we take action in relation to the very great responsibility they typically have. There is also an initiative of 50 million. kr. for dementia homes, which are going to do something forward-looking, i.e. remodel housing and community areas at care centres so that they are more suited to the needs of demented ones. And then we have the Dementia Trip Team, which among other things... The rapporteur of the Left has already referred to this, to which 20 million have been allocated. kr. Subsequently, those who have received the training will act as dementia keys at their workplace and ensure that the necessary knowledge spreads as poor in the water. We therefore have a high level of ambition in the area of dementia, and we also have a similar level of activity, but of course we can always do more, and there is also a need to learn more about what has already been set in motion; as the Minister has said, there is a large part of the funding from the elderly billion, which is also being used for this target group, and it is money that is typically used to develop something new, try some of what has not yet been done, which we can usefully gain widespread knowledge about throughout the country. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister has taken the initiative to carry out a study on the conditions in nursing homes and in nursing homes. That study must, of course, shed light on a number of points which the Minister also mentioned. We can take specific people as an example: An elderly gentleman of 93 years old, Aage, has lived a long life as a farmer, he has had Alzheimer's, he is in a nursing home, he has difficulty with most things, he does not know who he is or where he is, and sometimes he gets very sad. The staff must be able to accommodate and handle this, while at the same time helping him with the most basic of personal hygiene in a dignified way. I think we can agree that is not an easy task; anyone can't lift it. So what is the educational background of the staff who help Aage? How often are the sick, and who can be called in as a substitute? Yeah, that's something it would be nice to get not a single cut on, but a more general picture of "Aage" not only for Aage, but for everyone in Aage's situation. We can take a broad look at that. What do you do when Aage becomes outgoing, insecure and angry? Do you use force? What kind of power is used? Why do you do that? What have the alternatives been? These are just some of the things that the study is supposed to shed light on and that I think we are all deeply concerned about, and that is why I am very pleased with what the Minister has said today, and I am also glad that it seems that we are all concerned about whether we can make a joint report in committee. That is why we in the Socialist Group agree with the intention behind the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, but we also reject it because the Minister has taken the initiative for a study and we hope that it will also be put behind it, and that is what I have already heard today, although the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has not yet been allowed to be on the floor. So I'm not gonna lay down sir. Finn Sørensen the words in his mouth, but just say that I look very much forward to the outcome of the work that has been started by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133931	There is a brief comment from Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224133934	Thank you and also thank the rapporteur for his positive comments. But if I seem a little puzzling, it is probably due to the fact that several times since I came to Parliament and we got a new government, which then was not my fault alone, it has suggested to the government and changing social ministers that it has not been the same thing that such an investigation as the one we have tried to describe here was initiated. Each time, it has been rejected by having sufficient knowledge. The last time I proposed it, apart from the meeting that we had last week, when it was not commented on, was during the just completed financial law negotiations. It has been rejected every time because one really thought that one had sufficient knowledge, and that is why I can of course be a little surprised when I suddenly hear that there is now an interest in that I am only happy about that. As far as further work is concerned, I have already agreed that we should try to draw up a report in committee; it can certainly qualify the proposal we have made. And I am pleased that the Minister will call the parties before the investigation is started, so that the parties will have the opportunity to influence it. Whether or not we are behind the investigation that is being launched will come out of the negotiations that will then come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134059	I'm not quite sure I heard a question in that, sir. Finn Sørensen said. Sir. Finn Sørensen says: Now there is an interest in it. Well, my experience is that this subject has been worked on continuously under the current government. Action has been taken on the recommendations of the Home Aid Commission. A very large agreement was recently reached on dementia in connection with the wage pool settlement, where I know that Enhedslisten is not included, but where, as I mentioned in my speech, the fourfold amount has been available in relation to what was in the previous dementia trade plan we had in this country. In many of the municipalities around the city, the Elder Remilliard has been used for special efforts for this particular target group. Now there was no question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, but I just have to say that I don't quite recognize that picture, sir. Finn Sørensen would like to draw that now there is sudden interest in it. But it is a good thing if the Enhedslisten will also participate constructively in the discussions on the study we are going to have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134154	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134157	Now it is a short comment that I am making right now. You don't necessarily have to ask a question. I have found out after having attended several debates. I think the rapporteur misunderstands me. After all, I have not in any way expressed a negative opinion on the efforts of the pool parties and the government in this area, on the contrary. We can easily praise things that we ourselves do not share in agreement; that is no problem at all. What I am referring to is that this specific proposal that we are discussing today is one that Enhedslisten has put forward in the past, namely that we had such a thorough study of the situation in nursing homes. What I said was that until now it has been rejected, and now there is no such rejection, and I am just happy and satisfied with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134248	Well, what has been on the table and not been on the table behind the closed doors for a budget debate, of course only those sitting around that table can know, so that, sir. Finn Sørensen says there, I can't really comment on. Then I apologise if I sounded pinchy when I found that there was no question. In future, I will respect the fact that Mr. Finn Sørensen and other rapporteurs have every right to speak just to say something and not necessarily to ask a question. That's the way it's supposed to be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134314	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Karin Nødgaard as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134329	I do not think anyone is in any doubt that the area of the elderly is a very central area of the Danish People's Party's policy. And for the Danish People's Party, it is crucial that there are proper conditions for older citizens who for some reason need the support and help of society. In recent years, we have seen more and more cases, more or less, where we have seen that aid and aid to the elderly have been cut, that the offers they have received have deteriorated, that municipalities have also saved more and more in the area of the elderly, and that offers are reduced, which should otherwise increase the quality of life and make everyday life easier for older people to understand and also survive. It is thus that the Danish People's Party participates actively in debates and debates in the area of the elderly. After all, we had home help put on the agenda at the time, so a Home Help Commission was set up. We have also helped to adjust some legislative proposals so that perhaps they could become a little more acceptable from having been not so good, so that we could see that it was actually something that could make something better. There I can, for example. mention the proposal on rehabilitation. There has also been the elderly cheque, which has been discussed a great deal over the years. After all, it was also an initiative which came from the Danish People's Party and which initially met a great deal of resistance and criticism, but which today has fortunately become a permanent part of our welfare society. In relation to the rate pool, which the Danish People's Party is also involved in negotiating, it has also been important for us that funds should be set aside to increase the quality of life for the elderly, to improve conditions also for the demented and their relatives and also, most recently, to set up some demented housing. It could also be in relation to supporting the elderly, who suddenly have to act in a new social order compared with, for example, the elderly. technological society. Unfortunately, it is the case that the rate pool does not always have the largest amounts, which is why one can say that one would want a little more in relation to the area of the elderly. The Enhedslisten's proposals have some excellent focus areas, which are to be further elucidated. And these are precisely areas that, for good and evil, have been part of the focus in recent years. Some of the areas mentioned are some that we are already in the process of elucidating and looking at, both at committee meetings, but also in relation to dialogue with the Ministry and the Minister. So I would really like to see some facts gathered at the beginning of this debate: what is on the table? What do you have in the Ministry's archives? After all, there must already be a number of things available that can be summed up and included in the discussions that we shall then have and to which I understand all parties are invited. I also think it would be obvious that the Ministry should contact the KL and ask for the relevant information in the various areas that it wants to clarify, so that we actually have a national political knowledge of what we can involve and what we can work on. I clearly recognise the wish of the Enhedslisten to look at this area. We are doing some of that, but there is no doubt that there is more and that there are shortcomings. I believe that our efforts must be strengthened by pressing and deciding that improvements must be made in the area of the elderly, so that we have a society in which, for example, we have to have a society in which the elderly are involved. Dementia and their relatives get better conditions where no one is in unsupervised fabric belts, where older people are not printed too quickly because it is associated with savings, where there are proper staffing at the care centres, etc. etc. To conclude, I would like to say that it is important for the elderly to receive the care and care they are entitled to, and that we must ensure, and preferably broadly politically, that there are improvements in the area of the elderly. I hope that the discussions that the Minister is now saying are being invited to take place and hopefully that we can all help to influence what is being reported out, which will have to be examined very soon, because there is no doubt that this is a matter of taking action relatively quickly. I agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen in saying that perhaps we have been a little too optimistic about the date that has been put forward on the proposal, but I am sure that there is already so much available that we can, in fact, already provide a good basis for further work on the area. The Danish People's Party is very, very happy and very positive in the discussions that are to take place in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134800	There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134803	It is nice to hear that the Danish People's Party also supports the fact that we are getting a study started. I took the floor because the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party began his speech by describing how everything has got worse and worse. It is therefore not an image that I can recognise, and so I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to confirm the following: we can make a few individual cuts. Can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not confirm that the elderly cheque, as the Danish People's Party's rapporteur himself points out, has been raised by almost 40%. under the current government? And can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not confirm that the national action plan for dementia under the bourgeois government had 30 million? kr. to do well, but now with the latest agreement there are 121.4 million. kr. to do well and that everything else equal means that our efforts can go further? These are two concrete cuts which, after all, draw a different picture from that in which it only gets worse and worse, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party otherwise used the first part of his speech to tell us here in the Chamber and everyone who had to come with us at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224134910	I also hope that the Socialist rapporteur heard what I said, namely that there have been more and more areas where savings are being made and where we can see that there are problems. I'd say that when Enhedslisten does this, it's not like they're gonna suddenly woo some problems, but it's because they can see that there are some problems. I myself gave some examples of the fact that we know that there are some who have been in fabric belts and have not had supervision and so on. We can see that there have been conditions where you may not have changed diapers etc. etc. So I say that there are some areas that need to be looked at. But that does not mean that everything has become worse or worse. And I would say that I think it has been good both for the previous government and also for the current government that the Danish People's Party has been sitting at the table, when we have negotiated some of these areas, precisely in order to get funds set aside. I think I could easily persuade the Minister to admit that in relation to, for example, when we do. have been sitting in the debate on the pool of rates, and also the previous Social Affairs Ministers under the current government... who has actually put it on the agenda? I think there are things that have improved, but there is certainly a lot that is bad. I also mentioned the issue of municipal savings. The local authorities are forced into that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135014	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135016	I would also like to ask what basis the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has for saying that the municipalities have saved in the area of the elderly in connection with municipal budgets. I agree that in some of the municipalities where committee chairmen of the Danish People's Party have been sitting, the elderly have been spared or otherwise spared, because the press has already shown that there are examples of this. But when we look at the municipal budgets overall, I would like to know what figures the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is using to say that savings have been made in the area of the elderly. That's not a number I know. According to the figures I know, you spend $100 million. kr. more in the area of older people now than was done the previous year. So I'd like to hear about that, because you can't just stand there and slouch that it's so black like that. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I would just like to say that I think we should be careful not to stand in this Chamber and let each other hear that it is one party that is particularly responsible for this being lifted. I actually experience this as an agenda that we are all deeply concerned about, although the Danish People's Party would like to take credit alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135114	It was something of a political svada that came there when you think that sometimes you have to be good at praising each other. I think the newly-baked Social Democrat could learn from this, because I actually think I have heard other rapporteurs from that party have been able to do so. I think we should get better at it; we should get better at recognising that some people are actually putting something on the agenda. I think Mrs Astrid Krag should do the same in relation to this. Now the rapporteur used the word responsibility, but it has nothing to do with it, no, it is about just mentioning some things, about what has happened to improvement. It's because we have a platform that we have to do it. So I don't think there's anything weird about that at all. Then, when we talk about savings in the area of the elderly, I would like to say that I know that the rapporteur himself has seen how savings have been made in this area. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned it with food regulations and so on, in other words how we have saved in that area, so it is not something that is unknown.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135207	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135219	In Denmark, almost 45,000 elderly people live in nursing homes and nursing homes, and at least two third of them have dementia. In the Radical Left, we want to help create the best possible framework for these people to maintain the greatest possible influence and participation in their own lives, and I am pleased that, despite all the other things we can discuss and have a smoking disagreement about in this Parliament, it is my experience that this is something that we share very much. Recently, there has been a series of bad stories that question whether the conditions in our nursing home are good enough. There has actually been so much bad publicity that I got a message on Twitter from a nurse from Roskilde who wanted to hear, if not enough I would come with her out to see how fantastic a nursing home can actually be with the present and hearty employees and there are fortunately many of them. Basically, I believe in appreciative policies where we learn from the good examples and do what we can from in here to ensure that we do even more of what works well. However, there is also evidence that there is a need to get a comprehensive picture of the efforts around, which is why we would also like to help collect more knowledge about the well-being of residents, the physical framework, dementia efforts, the use of coercion and norms and competences. As the Minister said, we can have such a study ready for August, and it really makes me very happy that Enhedslisten has also welcomed it, because one will always be such a little bit happy as radical when it can succeed, if it can succeed in doing so over the middle and perhaps even with the support of all parties in the Folketing. So the hope on my part is that this can be a common cause for us, and on that reason we will vote down the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135430	Thank you, the radical rapporteur. Mrs Trine Mach as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135438	In SF, like the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties, we are very concerned about the conditions in Danish nursing homes, and we are very concerned about the many residents with dementia, as they have very special social and health needs. Like everyone else, we are shocked by recent media stories of quite unreasonable conditions for some of our older fellow citizens. Like other parties, we have asked the Minister about this and, as you know, we have also invited the Minister to look into the possibility of drawing up national guidelines for dementia care homes in Denmark in line with how they have done so in Sweden. We are pleased that the Minister is on board and that last week we were called for a good and preliminary discussion in the Ministry on the matter. In fact, as has been said several times, I find that there is broad political support for improving the conditions of up to 90 000 Danish citizens living with dementia, and we must insist that this is the starting point, that is, the broad political support. In fact, I also see Enhedslisten's proposal as an expression of the same, and we support the need for an investigation into the conditions of nursing homes and nursing homes, which can be part of our common political efforts to improve the conditions of elderly citizens. And I welcome the fact that, in principle and in practice, the Minister recognises and supports it, albeit in a slightly different form, and that a study will now be launched. To put it a little politically wrong, I do not really care whether it is the one or the other's investigation that gets the credit; what matters is what we get out of this and that we move forward together to improve the current situation. I hope that we can stick to this political consensus that we are experiencing so that, overall, we can take the decisions that benefit older citizens, because they really need that. We started a process last week, at least as we see it from the SF. I fully agree with Enhedslisten that we lack systematic knowledge of a number of conditions in Danish nursing homes, and I understand that the proposal was made back at the beginning of the winter 2014. However, the proposal is probably an all-encompassing one, and as Mrs Karin Nødgaard mentioned, there are several things that have already been set in motion which do not necessarily need to be repeated if resources are to be used properly. Of course, some of the things we from the SF think are important are the focus on dementia; it is crucial that the study zooms into the problem when two out of three nursing homes suffer from such a disease. It is also essential that the survey map out the standards in nursing homes and look at the standards in relation to the number of residents with dementia. That is why it is important to identify and assess the standards; it is not only a quantitative objective, it is also a qualitative objective. Then, of course, it is important to assess the professional skills of the staff. For example, we believe that there should be doctors with special knowledge of dementia associated with all nursing homes in Denmark. It is therefore not only a question of standards but also of the fact that the staff who are there have sufficient up-to-date professional skills in the specific nursing home. We also think it would be interesting to have a discussion of malnutrition among elderly people in a number of nursing homes. We think it is important to look at the various technological possibilities, as several have also mentioned here from the platform. We think it is important to look at the use of coercion and, of course, to look at the general well-being and how residents can have the opportunity to participate in activities and continue to help determine and maintain governance in their own lives. I would like to conclude by saying that we are very pleased that Enhedslisten took the initiative for this study. I really think that we have all been involved in this in our debates and in the work that has been going on for a very long time. But let us find a level and a format that allows us to get what we need in order to be able to act and no more and not double. That is why I would also like to sign that the Minister will call the parties of the Folketing to discuss it here, also so that we can hear a little more about what it is, in addition to the list made by the Minister from the platform, that is to say what the Minister intends to do in concrete terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135837	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Thyra Frank as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224135843	Thank you, sir. President. The motion for a resolution on a national survey of foster housing units put forward by the Enhedslisten has very many good intentions which the Liberal Alliance can support. Focusing on areas such as dementia, health care, manning and family policies is very important. And we already have recommendations and studies to tackle. For example: came the Elder Commission with its report on quality of life and self-determination in nursing homes in 2012. It was about creating homes instead of institutions, about caring and enjoying life rather than rules and rigid systems. It was about putting the individual resident in the center. Therefore, there was focus on five values to ensure our old a safe, dignified and decent life throughout life: influence on own life, respect for diversity, humanity in focus, good experiences every day and a dignified end to life. These recommendations, of course, require that you put care providers on the shelf and create value-based and visible management, where the staff dare to show the way and look at the possibilities rather than the limitations. I get sad when I hear stories of failure in the care of the elderly, but in many ways we already have studies and recommendations to address. We know, among other things. There is already a very high level of sickness absenteeism and also the fact that the use of temporary workers is far too high. When it comes to standards, I am not only concerned with gross standards themselves, but also with how they are distributed between administrative staff and those involved in practical work. The Liberal Alliance is looking forward to the further work of the committee and I fully support Mr Beazley's report. Finn Sørensen's proposal that the Minister call all parties to give their input to the investigation before it starts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224140101	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Per Løkken as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224140114	The Enhedslisten is debating an important area with this proposal. We also recognise that it is terrible when there is a failure of management in the care sector, which leads to failure of nursing homes. Of course, we support the need for older citizens to receive the help and care they are entitled to. We also recognise that there are increasing challenges in the area of the elderly, particularly in relation to the increase in the number of demented people. As we have heard, there lived in 2014 approx. 44,000 citizens in nursing homes and nursing homes targeted at the elderly. It is estimated that two thirds of them have some form of dementia. We also know that a number of analyses have been carried out and a number of initiatives have been launched on the conditions of nursing homes and nursing homes, and today the Minister and the government have announced that we will have a study which we look forward to further discussion of. In the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, we have also discussed the action in the field of dementia and we support the fact that, instead of more studies, we are taking concrete measures to improve conditions locally. We want to be involved in discussing national framework conditions: where best practice is used and how to carry out audits, i.e. evaluation of what is done, so that managers and staff in each nursing home become more competent and learn from the experience they have built up? We would also like to contribute to discussing how to ensure that there is a permanent and competent staff in an area of increasing complexity in relation to contact with the individual citizen. We would like to discuss the form of housing and interior design and how people as citizens and relatives are better at dealing with dementia. We believe it is important to take preventive action and take concrete initiatives. Instead of creating more bureaucracy and adding more academic staff, we should look at how we can add more warm hands so that we prioritise personal contact with older citizens. Finally, we do not believe that management failures can be solved by national investigations such as the one that Enhedslisten is proposing here. We pay tribute to local self-government and believe that the best conditions are available locally for giving the elderly citizens the right care to suit them. We need to strengthen this with skills development of employees and managers locally. So the Conservatives do not support the concrete motion for a resolution, but we look forward to discussing the proposal from the Minister in committee, where the study is based on existing knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224140400	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224140411	Thank you and thank you for a constructive debate. Sometimes it is very good to be disappointed, because if you have been pessimist and had pessimistic expectations, it is good to be disappointed. But I have stayed a little pessimistic after three years in the Danish Parliament, so I actually spent a lot of time yesterday writing a speech in which I thoroughly documented all the many cases we have received from the world we are talking about, which suggests that things are not quite as they should be, and that, unfortunately, we have to face up to the fact that we do not necessarily as a general picture, but too many places do not provide nursing homes and elderly people with the care and care and give them the dignified life that they deserve. I think I also had a few comments to make about who had a political responsibility for it. However, I shall pass on that speech in the light of the constructive debate that has taken place, and note to my great pleasure that everyone, the Minister and all the rapporteurs, recognizes that here is a very important task for us, namely to have complete clarity as to what the situation is actually in the country's nursing home. I should then like to say: perhaps with the exception of the Conservatives. I'm not sure I fully understood the announcement there. But otherwise everyone else has clearly said that there are some good intentions in the Enhedslisten's proposal and that they are supported as such. The Minister has said that he will initiate an investigation. The Minister has also given a clear answer to a clear question, namely that he would very much like to call the parties of the Folketing so that we can have a joint ownership for such an investigation. This is extremely satisfactory, and I hope that will happen very quickly. It must, of course, take account both of the further consideration of this proposal and, above all, of the excellent deadline set by the Minister. You might always want it to go faster, but okay, there's a job to be done, so August is probably fine too. There is only one comment I would like to make on the basis of the study, because we will then have the opportunity to look at all the sticks and see if it is now as we each want it to be. It is about the Minister saying that it must be based on existing knowledge. At any rate, I can mention a point where we do not have any existing knowledge, and that is exactly as far as the central issue of standardisation and actually manning and the distribution of staffing and competence is concerned. Now I was pleased that the Minister mentioned that both staffing and competences should be examined, but I would just like to say that there is no qualified examination of it. Well, I guess the FOA's investigation is also qualified, because they have asked their staff who clearly indicate that there are shortcomings here. But there is no such study, which everyone could say is a common objective basis. So there is certainly an area where new knowledge needs to be gained. I very much agree with Mrs Thyra Frank when she says that it is not enough to look at the total number of employees in nursing homes. You have to look at how they are distributed. The rapporteur for the Conservatives also mentioned this. It does not matter whether there are a whole lot of administrative staff, but not many on the front, if that is the case. And it certainly does not matter what their competences are. It can be said that what I am saying here about the focus on standardisation, manning and competences is, in fact, one of the points highlighted by the Nursing Home Commission in the study that they made the Social Research Institute do or it was one they had made of themselves on page 25. I won't tire of reading it, you've read it before. But look at it again, because already there should be warning lights blinking when you look at how the staff themselves experience the situation in the nursing homes. They generally think they have a positive relationship they even say a very positive relationship to the residents. The residents do not entirely agree with it, but it is generally very good. But then there are all the concerns the staff have. There is a very large proportion of those who indicate that they do not believe that the quality of care and care is sufficiently good, etc. etc. and that many of them really want a different job because they do not think it is satisfactory to work there. So I guess there's some new knowledge we need to catch up with. I just thought I'd raise that little flag. Then I would also like to comment on one point that has been raised in the debate. This is the question of the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia. It was raised by the rapporteur of the Left. I just want to confirm what I have done in various meetings, that we have a good institute, centre, there. We have spent some money on getting it up and, of course, we must make use of that knowledge also in the process we are about to start here. I just want to thank you once again for a good debate. I look forward to the discussion in committee, I look forward to the cooperation with the Minister, and of course I will hurry home and brew a draft report which we can then deal with in committee so that we also fulfil our responsibility for moving this forward a little quickly. So thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224140959	There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag. No, it's a mistake). Well, it's a mistake. Then there is no brief comment. It was merely a comment, it was not a question). Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141026	The debate is open. Sir. Erling Bonnesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141052	Thank you. In the context of the examination of draft law L 134, entitled "A bill amending the Animal Protection Act' and "A bill on veterinarians', the Left will support the bill. Paragraph 1 of the bill prohibits sexual behavior and sexual behavior with animals. In addition, point 2, measures and initiatives are being implemented to improve dog life, banning the sale of dogs on markets, and giving the Minister the power to lay down rules on the breeding of dogs, cats and other family and hobby animals. Finally, paragraph 3 of the proposal involves a change in the Council structure in the field of animal welfare, which makes it clear that the decisions of the National Police cannot be appealed to the Minister for Food. The draft law provides for certain exceptions in relation to the prohibition of sexual activity with animals, specifying that acts of a veterinary or zootechnical nature are not affected by the legislation. The Left believes that clarification is important, as the proposal should not affect disease diagnosis and treatment or insemination or other necessary procedures for breeding and production. It has been the view of the Left that the animal protection law in the past has been sufficient to provide protection for animals, since animals must not be subjected to pain, suffering, anxiety or permanent but according to the law in force. The Left believes that sexual relations with animals are covered by these provisions, and the Left has therefore always opposed sexual relations with animals. However, the debate has recently called into question the importance of the provisions to date, and the Left will support the bill here in order to eliminate doubts about the legislation. We believe it is important that Denmark should not be exhibited as a country in which the sexual exploitation of animals is permitted. The Left expects that the bill will improve Danish animal welfare without giving extra financial costs or harming professional interests, and on this basis and based on this assessment, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141258	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141302	First of all, I would like to thank the Left for supporting a clear ban on the sexual abuse of animals. However, we have dealt with DF's motion for a resolution on this many times now, and the Left has said no every time, so I just want to hear what has actually changed. I could understand a little from the speech that you say it is because you now need a clear legal basis. The last time we had the debate, I actually asked Mr. Erling Bonnesen, if he did not think there was a need for a legal basis, and then I got the answer that there is now good and comprehensive legislation in this area, so that the police, as the authority in this area, can always intervene in these cases when it is necessary. The last time, then, the argument was about the fact that we needed a clear legal basis, and then they said no, and now they say yes for the same reason. Or what has changed since they have said no four times and now say yes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141351	But it is almost implicit in the question and the wording used by the rapporteur, in other words that society is constantly evolving, that the world around us is changing, that the debate is changing, and it is also important how this is perceived here. And that is where we think we have come to where we can adjust the price, and we have done so, and that is why we are now supporting this, in other words to have a clear line on it. We also think that animal sex is an awful thing and that there should be a clear line against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141415	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141418	It is, of course, very positive that you can become wiser, and it is true that the world is changing, but what has changed since 2012 when we last discussed this proposal, and until now? As far as the Danish People's Party is concerned, nothing has changed. We are, of course, pleased that there will be a ban, but we are just wondering why it has not been possible to do so in the past. I think that is a little strange, and that is why I would like to know if I can clarify what has changed in the world since 2012, i.e. from the time they said no to the time they are going to say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141443	But as it is almost in both the answer and the question from the past, it is simply that the situation here has changed visibly, that the debate has changed, and then the ambiguity, one might almost say, has also increased. And the countries around us have also responded, and then we do not think that there should be the focus that could risk staying at Denmark. So it is simply on the basis of an overall assessment of the situation where we are now, when we have said that when momentum like moving in the area, we must of course take stock of it, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141514	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Orla Sea as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141522	Thank you for that, President. I think that, if you ask the public widely, you will hear that there is a standard that states that we must treat animals properly, and especially the animals we allow ourselves to keep as pets etc. This package takes the statements and initiatives that have been made about, for example: a better dog life, seriously. It is based on the introduction of a ban on the sale of dogs in markets, in order to help stimulate a serious way of keeping dogs in our society. Secondly, the Minister is authorised to lay down rules on the breeding of dogs, cats and other family and hobby animals, the purpose of which is to ensure that rules are laid down on the breeding of animals in such a way as not to cause welfare or health problems or to suffer from fashion trends, etc. Then, of course, it is also the area, which is probably the number of battles in this bill, namely the sexual relations with animals, and here it is also the case that we do not want that. So far we have had the impression that this has also been the case and that we have had legislation that has helped to ensure that this could not happen or should be done on the basis of the law. When we talk about this unspeakable chapter, our starting point is that we have so far had a set of rules banning it. However, that view has gradually been called into question and several countries have introduced rules which clearly lay down a ban, and that is what the Minister is now proposing, which we naturally support. In addition, some technical changes are being made to the consultative structure in relation to this whole area. However, we are prepared to support the proposal because it creates less confusion in an area which is very well suited to some kiosk Basques.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141744	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141748	Now it is about 10 years since the Danish People's Party proposed this for the first time. Social democracy has said no every time we have dealt with it. Last time it was sir, too. Orla Hav, who was rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party and, of course, had very little respect for that proposal. Among other things, they used: to say that it had to be the fear of the Danish People's Party for dark men. That's what they used last time Mr. Orla Hav was the rapporteur on that. Then I would just like to ask whether one still thinks that it is fear of dark men that there is a need for it now after all. Is it the social democracy's fear of dark men, or was it just the fear of the Danish People's Party for dark men? I am clearly pleased that the position has changed, but I am surprised that one could be so sharp in the tone the last time we dealt with it, and now it has actually turned on a plate here two years after.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141830	If the rapporteur were to listen to what was the content of my speech in this area, he would know that it was, of course, that some countries, other countries, a number of countries have imposed some real bans in this area, and that is what we are following. May I add, if we're going to continue this dark-man discussion, that I've been wondering that this topic appeared again and again on a very, very loose basis until I found out that on the Danish People's Party's website a campaign was waged, trying constantly to create a picture that this is something that is common in an otherwise well-functioning and thinking society. Then I understand that there are people who are in doubt and that they need greater clarity. It can then be called that it is an expression of the wish of the Danish People's Party to play for fear and dark deeds etc., and that is what then strikes through. - Sir, you can. Dennis Flydtkjær so delighted that it is. We do not want to have a discussion on an unbiased basis, and we hope that this proposal will be over.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141936	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224141939	One must understand that the reason why you make this bill is because the Danish People's Party has campaigned on its website. You still think it's unspeakable, it's still gone fear of Darkmen, but you do it to shut the discussion down. That must be what this speech is to be regarded as. By the way, I'd like to ask Mr. Orla Hav, which countries have been imposing bans since the last time we discussed this proposal. I understand that that is what has changed the point of view. As far as I know, Norway, Germany, the Netherlands, had several states in the United States, England and so on. All of them a ban, the last time we dealt with it here in 2012, so what has changed compared to which countries have imposed a ban that did not have it then? I understand that this is also the main argument in it, but the rapporteur must be able to explain which new countries have arrived since the last time we discussed it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142019	I must say with shame that I do not remember what specific countries have come to, but it is information from the Ministry which is the basis of the information I give. If you don't mind, I'm not gonna say to Mr. Simpson. Dennis Flydtkjær: I have little sympathy for parties who want to play on fear and who want to play on ghost stories, they are able to deceive the people, and it may have played a certain role in the way I have argued. Now we are not closing this chapter because we believe that we have actually had legislation that has helped prevent it, but the Danish People's Party has not held back. The Danish People's Party has kept driving big billboards around the landscape and has had lots of ads on their website, where people have tried to make the most unsavory of people, and I don't like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142110	There is an extra short remark from Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142114	It's just that I might now be a little worried about what drives the Socialists. Do you want me to understand, sir? Orla Hav says that if the Danish People's Party is running an unspeakable campaign on its website, will it in future be the position of the Social Democrats that this challenge will be solved by putting forward the proposal that the Danish People's Party would like to have adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142135	I hope that will not be the case in any way, but in the specific case, Mr President. Per Clausen, it is true that there are very large groups in the population who are sympathetic to the fact that we are dealing with animals in a proper and respectable way and in a way that we can be familiar with, and that is why it is wise to close that discussion so that there is no doubt as to what the case law should be in this area. This is where the Danish People's Party has tried to cast doubt on the general right-thinking part of the population, and therefore it may be necessary to do so here. But it should not be a rule that should be practiced in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142212	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142214	At least I'm reassured about that, because it could lead Mr. Orla Have into things like Mr. Orla Hav hardly wants to get out in. I also share the view that it is very important to pursue a policy that takes account of animal welfare, but Mr. Orla Have not then that there are other major animal welfare problems that also exist outside the Danish People's Party website, which it might be wiser to spend time solving? We hear in these days that pig producers are seriously discussing whether to kill all piglets weighing less than 1 kg. This will significantly increase the number of killings of piglets in the Danish pig stalls. Mr. Orla Have honestly not that we should devote more attention to it than to putting away misunderstandings on the basis of the Danish People's Party's website?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142306	Well, there are plenty of other topics. I'd like to say to Mr. Per Clausen, that the issues that Per Clausen mentions here are, of course, subjects that are constantly being addressed to agriculture, which has the task of ensuring proper animal welfare throughout the agricultural sector. I should just like to mention one theme, and that is that the breeding work that has been carried out to produce as many piglets as possible from each sow has gone so far that there is simply no room at the place of food to ensure that the animals can survive. It is clear that we are trying to put pressure on another way of doing this breeding work. Then it can take a very long biological discussion about what is the pig's way of ensuring their spread in nature. I was impressed not so dangerously long ago when I was told that wild boars give birth in part to litters of ten pieces, of which it is nature's order that someone survives. So obviously there are also mechanisms in the biology of animals that we have to look at and take as a starting point in order to deal with these challenges. But I recognise the point of view, and I would very much like to be free to act on the basis of carelessness and suspicion that we are going to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142434	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224142440	Thank you. Here we are dealing with a bill which deals with slightly different things, the most controversial of which is probably the prohibition of sexual relations or sexual acts with animals. There are also proposals to ban the sale of dogs in markets. There are rules on the breeding of family and hobby animals. And then there's a changed Council structure. The first thing I want to mention in my speech here is the ban on the sale of dogs on markets, which I think is a positive step. This is among other things. to avoid impulse buying of dogs, since it is important and very good when you get a dog, that you know something about it, so you know something about upbringing, know something about diet, etc., so that it is not something you do ill-considered, so you might lose interest afterwards or get a poor dog raised. So, of course, we support this initiative. I would, however, like the Minister for Food to be able to elaborate here in the chair, or perhaps in the committee work, on why it should deal only with dogs. Isn't the same problem true for other pets? It could be cats, rabbits or other animals. I understand that you don't buy an impulsive horse that you put on the back of the trailer and drive home with. However, there are other hobby and pets, which may be the same arguments and issues, and which should also be looked at. Then there are rules on the breeding of family and hobby animals, which are an important issue. It has been seen that there are animals that are being bred with such grotesque results that they can no longer breathe air, so they have to have surgical procedures afterwards. This is an issue that I think needs to be discussed and addressed. So, of course, we also support this initiative. With regard to the change in the Council structure, I have nothing to say immediately, but it may be that we will come back in committee. But I also think it sounds like a positive step. Then there is the proposal to ban the sexual abuse of animals. I have to say that we in the Danish People's Party find it gratifying that we are dealing with this proposal today. This is something we in the Danish People's Party have proposed four times, and it is now more than 10 years since we first brought it up. Each time, the vast majority of the parties in the Folketing have voted no. There are individual parties, for example. SF, who has voted in favour sometimes. We are, of course, pleased about this, but we have also seen a debate where we have been deliberately neglected and where this proposal has been demeaned and ridiculed, among other things. by the Socialist rapporteur, which it can be said was partly done again. It has been said in the past that it was no problem; that the rules in force were good enough. Last time we were told by the radical rapporteur that it was simply merely symbolic legislation. But now you are helping to put forward a bill on exactly the same thing yourself. We were told last time by the Social Democratic Party that it was out of fear of dark men. Now the Social Democratic Party is making the same proposal, but now it is not out of fear of dark men, or maybe it was in part anyway, just because you were tired of seeing ads on the Danish People's Party website. I can figure out that we are about to place some more ads on the Danish People's Party website to get our policy through; that can of course be a good way to do it. But now I think it's too bad. There was also the last time a minister said that there was no clear need for a ban, but now there is a clear need for a ban. I would say that we in the Danish People's Party of course welcome the fact that there has been a change of attitude among the governing parties, but we wonder why it should be 10 years before this position could be reached. But it's better to be a reverse sinner, and it's not because I want to say that you're a sinner in this sense, but it's better, after all, that you've changed your mind and come to your senses. But it turns out there's a need for this. It has become apparent that there is a need for a clear legal basis in the legislation, which means that the police have something to assume. Until now it has been too vague because it has been Section 1 of the Animal Protection Act, which just said that if there was no pain, suffering, distress or lasting but, there was nothing to come after. We have also seen a number of other countries with which we are comparing ourselves come up with bans: Norway, Sweden, Germany, France, England, Holland and a number of American states. So it looks a little crazy that Denmark as the only country does not have a clear ban. We used that argument in the resolution last time, but it was rejected. Now it's exactly the same argument used in the government bill... now it's obviously a good move. We still think this is a good move, so we will of course support it. However, I would just like to say to Orla Sea, as such, that it was still not a problem that an investigation was carried out via the Ministry of Justice in August 2011, where a number of veterinarians and 17 per cent were asked. by the Danish veterinarians who were asked had suspected it or had experienced bringing in animals that had been sexually abused. So, unfortunately, this is something that is going on out there. It has to be said that the area must be covered with large numbers of darkness, one must assume, since people probably do not go to the vet with their animals if it has gone wrong when they have abused them, so they have got the trouble of it. It is, moreover, the same result that a study in Norway showed and which therefore also led the Norwegians to believe that there was a need to do something in this area. In conclusion, I should like to mention something that is missing from the legislative proposal, and it concerns the area of criminality in this regard, i.e. whether there is a penalty. What do you get if you're caught being sexually abused by an animal? Is it like in all other animal welfare cases where you might typically get off with a fine? Or is this to be a aggravating circumstance in which one might lose the right to deal with animals in the future? I need something about that in this draft law, but we may be able to delve into it in the context of committee work. However, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party can of course support the measures contained in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143002	Thank you to the rapporteur. There was a brief remark from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143008	Thank you. I trust, also from the rapporteur's speech, that the rapporteur's position on this matter is based more on animal welfare than on sexual morality, namely that the animal cannot say from or to, and in relation to, the damage that can also occur. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur whether the animal welfare view applies to all types of animals, or whether this applies mainly to pets such as dogs and cats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143045	Now I assume that the rapporteur does not just mean sexual abuse of animals when she asks whether this applies to other animals too, because that applies, of course, to all animals. I think it is important that we respect animals, regardless of whether they are production animals or pets, and treat them properly; that they do not suffer unnecessarily and that we ensure that there is a clear framework for how to expect them to be treated. I would also like, in principle, to take a look at Switzerland, which has a completely different animal welfare legislation than we have in Denmark, which is very specific and specific about how to treat even almost the smallest species, so you know what you are dealing with, instead of the Danish legislation, which is very broad and unconcrete and just says that if animals suffer genes or anxiety or pain, it is of course illegal. But it's pretty hard to come by if you come as a policeman and have to lift a burden of proof. So I would like to see something looked at to other countries, such as the United States. Switzerland, where the legislation we have is much more concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143134	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143137	The reason why I am asking is that if you believe that animal welfare should apply to all animals, then we will also be discussing our production animals, and that is also why there are a number of exceptions in this legislative proposal. That is why I would just like to hear the rapporteur, who I know personally cares about animal welfare, just as also DF as a party does whether it also means that there are a number of points in the animal welfare area in connection with our production animals that we need to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143217	Yes, I can only confirm that. There are a large number of other areas, and I think that, particularly in relation to production animals, there is something to be done, and especially in relation to pig production, I have the impression that there are at least a number of difficulties which might well need to be looked at in the seams. So I can only confirm that, especially in the case of production animals, there are some places where conditions at least need an extra look at the seams.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143237	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143241	I'd like to know if Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær and Dansk Folkeparti think it is reasonable that there is a general exception in this legal provision, if the act you are doing is one you are doing, you might say, as a part of food production, which is supposed to have some socio-economic gain. Well, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, that important animal welfare issues should be ignored if the action taken against animals is taken because a socio-economic gain can be achieved?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143313	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Per Clausen among others. think of it with artificial insemination, where it is naturally for production purposes. There you have to have a balance in it, compared to that there must also be room for you to have a production in Denmark. Some people in Denmark may think that you should not eat meat at all and not have a production of it. But we do, and there are a lot of people who make a living from it. There, I think, a fine balance has been found, where it should of course be the case that animals do not suffer from it, and I do not have the impression that they do so in connection with artificial insemination. So no, I don't think it's a bad thing that there's an exception. I think it is positive that, after all, there is also a pragmatic approach to it. As long as the animal does not suffer or suffer pain, or if someone misuses it for their own gain sexually, there must of course still be room for one to have production in Denmark as well, and there is, after all, room for that in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143358	Then the second brief remark from Mr. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143401	I have to understand, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær is such that it is not the act that determines whether to be punished; it is the motive. I understand, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær believes that making money is a legitimate motive for doing things that, in other contexts, should not be done to animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143422	No, I think there is a huge difference between the sexual exploitation of an animal for its own gain, for example. of a dog that is not in heat and therefore does not have genital organs that are ready to have sex or that is artificial insemination of a pig. I think there is a huge difference, and I do not think it is a bad thing that one has made an exception, so one can, after all, also have a production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143445	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143457	Today we are dealing with L 134, which is a change to the Animal Protection Act and veterinary law. That is where we ban, among other things. sexual relations with animals and sexual acts with animals. We ban the sale of dogs in markets and various other things on e.g.. the breeding area. For the Radical Left, it is important that we take good care of the animals that are in our care, and that is why we can support the amendments in the legislative proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143526	There do not seem to be any brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Next is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224143549	After all, this is an area that we have discussed several times in the Chamber, and I can also say that this is an area in which my own party has voted slightly differently. To be honest, we've had a hard time figuring out exactly what the right way to go is here. I don't think it's simple. We can all agree that this is about animal welfare. Most of us, I think, can agree that this is about animal welfare against sexual morality. It has been a while since we in Denmark said that people must do almost what they want, as long as they do not harm others, and as long as it is with other equal beings. When we have discussed this in the past, we have also discussed whether we were not covered by the Animal Protection Act, i.e. whether we already had a ban on harming animals. That is also the advice we have received from the Animal Health Council, namely that as long as it is a matter of banning animal sex alone, it is a matter of morality. But it's not. From the SF's point of view, it is the question of looking at the animal welfare aspects of it. When it is not so simple, it is precisely in relation to the question I asked Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, who was also followed up with a question from Enhedslisten • because we have production animals in Denmark, which are castrated, which are artificially inseminated, and which we deal with within some framework, of course, which we now find most useful for us. We have pets that are, what to say, outside their natural habitat. In this way we already submit our will to the animals. So we must also be careful that there is no hypocrisy in this, that is, in animal welfare terms. As it was also in the question put to Dennis Flydtkjær, we are making some exceptions. We are also doing so in this bill because we would not be able to maintain the agriculture we have today if there were no exceptions in the law. But in the end, I would say, the SF supports the bill alone from the point of view that you cannot ask the animal whether it has suffered harm or not. There are no resources in the police to investigate the cases that exist. As we unfortunately know, there are many other tasks for the police. And in this way we believe that we should support a ban because we cannot ask the animal whether it has suffered harm or not, or whether it is voluntary or not. In relation to the other two areas, we also find ourselves a little puzzled, as the DF does, about why there must be a ban on the sale of dogs on the market. So we would like to see a little more of the Minister. But we support a ban. Against this background, we also think that we should discuss the fact that we have a number of animal welfare challenges, including in our production agriculture. And I am also pleased that when I asked the DF's rapporteur whether we could not improve on a number of points the conditions for animals in production farming, I received a very clear yes. The SF is very concerned about this. It is not only the cute pets who are entitled to some form of protection that all production animals in Denmark also have. I also think it is appropriate to think that 24 000 piglets die every day and that less than 1%. of our production chicken can stand upright because their feet cauterize away. We need to discuss the way our agriculture works.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224144000	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224144012	We are dealing with a legislative proposal here which contains a number of minor but not insignificant improvements in relation to animal welfare, and then we are dealing with a single element of the proposal, which directly states in the comments that it must be implemented, even if it has no impact on animal welfare. It is a little strange when discussing animal welfare that such an element is included in a legislative proposal. We believe that the recommendations on the breeding of family and hobby animals should be given the possibility of intervention by the Minister in cases where breeding is producing animals which have very poor opportunities to live reasonably reasonable and reasonable lives is a good idea. Here too, of course, it could be said that the legislation already says something about the fact that one must not be bred for and in such a way as to harm the mother animal or offspring. However, when you see how the breeding has developed in pig production, you can understand, of course, that there is a need to make such a clarification. I hope, then, that the clarification adopted here might also spread to other areas. We also think that the idea of not selling dogs in markets is probably a good idea, although I also share the surprise of the Danish People's Party and others that it only covers dogs. I understand that there has to be a limit somewhere, but why it was just by dogs you hit, you can probably discuss it. At least we think so. Then there is this Council structure, which provides for simplification, and that all sounds good. We have read the consultation answers that have been received and they certainly give rise to at least some questions, so that we can be sure that there are no areas which are not adequately covered. We also share the desire to take effective action against the sexual exploitation of animals in commercial contexts. It has also been mentioned in the past by the Animal Health Council that there was an area in which it would be obvious to implement legislation, so we think that can be sensible and right. Where it gets a little bit difficult, I must say, is when we go back to the Jyske Law and then the sex legislation in Denmark until 1930 to find examples from then on that it was thought it was a good idea to put people in prison if they had a sexuality that differed from what was considered appropriate and normal and sensible. Fortunately, one can say, the limits of what is normal behavior have changed somewhat since 1930, so what was persecuted for then is not likely to be persecuted for again. However, somewhere in the Enhedslist we may still find it a little strange that there is a legislative proposal that says that it is a question of ensuring animal welfare, but this also applies in cases where animals suffer no harm. In fact, I find that very, very difficult to understand. I will not fail to say that the Enhedslisten will, in the further work on this bill, try to find out how we can, however, focus on ensuring that when we talk about animal welfare legislation, it is about improving animal welfare. At any rate, I would say that immediately we are not prepared to vote in favour of a bill which is claimed to be about animal welfare, but where a significant part of the argument • and this is very exemplary from the comments • is taken from some moral concepts that come back from the Jyske Law and some sex legislation in Denmark until 1930. We are not very prepared to do so. I would also like to say that one becomes even more sad when one finds that this particular consideration, which means that we must therefore ban certain acts, also in cases where it does not affect the welfare of animals, suddenly does not apply when it comes to making money. In other words, if it is something that needs to be done to maintain our food production, to maintain an agricultural production of animals, to stop being reprehensible, to stop having to ban it, to stop having to be punished. I would just like to say, if I may be quite honest, that it is my clear view that the animal welfare problems we have in food production in Denmark are considerably greater than the animal welfare problems that are solved by the overall legislative proposal that lies here, even if we take in the positive elements. There is little help in having an element that is included in the legislative proposal, about which one says oneself: well, we do not really believe that it has any impact on animal welfare, but we still think that we will adopt it. That is the reality. It is clear from the comments that action must also be taken in cases where it has no impact on animal welfare. As I said, in the further work of the committee, we would like to work on those things and see if we can make some clarifications that will ensure that people are punished if they commit acts that go beyond animal welfare. In addition, if you want to punish people for their behaviour, that legislation must be placed in other parts of our legislative system, as several of the parties to the hearing also write: if it is about sexual acts which, for moral reasons, you are opposed to, you have to find another place to place that legislation. It is not because it will get Enhedslisten to support it, but it would surely be more real.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224144529	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224144541	On behalf of Mrs Mette Bock, I should like to make the following rapporteur's speech: in the Liberal Alliance, we are strongly opposed to cruelty to animals. It is evil and it is unacceptable. That is why we welcome the fact that animals are already protected from any abuse that harms them or causes them unnecessary pain. The Danish Animal Protection Act clearly announces in Section 1 that animals must be protected from pain, anxiety and suffering. According to the law, a violation of the law may be punishable by up to 2 years in prison. Today, when we are dealing with a bill which explicitly prohibits animal sex, it is at best a superfluous proposal; at worst, it is political populism and moralism. This particular bill is an example of why the Danes are drowning in rules and paragraphs, and already where there is already legislation, Christiansborg puts an extra pressure on it so that we, as politicians, can show to the electorate that we are good people. It's fliesy. For animals, it is essential that they are not subjected to abuse. This is already guaranteed by the Animal Protection Act, and we fully support it in the Liberal Alliance. The Liberal Alliance supports the protection of animals against abuse, but we do not support superfluous and symbolic legislation that makes no difference to animals. As far as the proposal for a better dog life is concerned, the intention is to improve the welfare of the dog by equipping the dog owners' knowledge before purchasing a dog is very good. However, we do not believe that it is a state task to finance these actions, just as we do not believe that it is a state task to regulate whether dogs can be sold on markets. The Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224144733	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next and last rapporteur is Mr. Daniel Rugholm of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224144744	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party we have a slogan called "People first." On today's occasion, I will allow myself to change it to the officers first, because that is the essence of this bill. Personally, it has always puzzled me that sexual relations with animals have been allowed in Denmark. The argument against legislation in this area is quickly becoming a bit of a legal hoax and an intellectual discussion about something that we cannot really reject or prove, namely whether the animals are harmed or not. I recognise that it can be difficult to demonstrate this. In some cases the animals may not be harmed, but there are certainly cases where the animals have clearly suffered. Then there are all the cases in the grey area where the veterinarians have no doubt that the animals have suffered harm, but where they just cannot prove it physically. That is why I very much disagree with what my predecessor from the Liberal Alliance said from the platform, for example. fear in animals can be difficult to detect, and in such cases the abuse is not punished. In fact, it means protecting the offender and not the victim. Although one can argue, as I have often heard from the Animal Ethics Council, which opposes a ban, that animals have a different view of sex than we do that it is no worse than insemination and so on. etc., there are grey areas, because we cannot always decode the animals. And whether you like it or not, it is an attack on the animal in relation to what is the animal's nature. We can't know what situation we're putting animals in. That is why I am pleased that there is today significant support for the protection of animals. It may not be based so much on ethics, logic and law, but legislation based on morality, too, I feel very good about this case. In recent years, virtually all our neighbouring countries have banned animal sex. This has meant that there has been an increase in activities in the area in Denmark. This applies both to brothels with animals where sexual services are offered, and to pornographic material with animals. Personally, I am actually ashamed that Denmark is known for being able to come here to have sex with animals or to produce and buy animal porn. So let's put an end to this. The animals first. The bill also contains a number of other measures that improve animal conditions. There is a ban on the sale of dogs on markets and an authorisation for the Minister to lay down rules on the breeding of dogs, cats and other family and hobby animals. Finally, there are also some changes in the Council structure in this area. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224145019	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Food to round off the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224145030	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the many good speeches and comments. The proposal to ban animal sex, that is, that people have sexual relations with animals, must be seen in the light of a number of conditions: an animal cannot, by its very nature, say no. By its very nature, an animal also finds it quite difficult to prove, after any sexual act, that the animal has been damaged. In other words, with the current legislation, which several have rightly mentioned, we have in fact also banned animal sex in situations where animals have been injured, but we have had a very difficult time lifting the burden of proof. So, despite the fact that it is technically prohibited in the current legislation, there is a need for new legislation to ensure that consideration of the animal comes first. Does that mean, then, as sir. Per Clausen says that there will also be sexual acts which may not harm the animal but which will be banned? The answer is this: yes, it is not the main purpose of the legislation, but an unintended consequence of the legislation, as well as, in the present situation, there is a risk of something that is not an intention of the legislation but is an unintended consequence of the legislation, namely that there are animals that are harmed, but where you simply cannot prove it. Summa summarum, on the bottom line: If you want us to be free from the risk that animals may suffer from animal sex, human sex with animals in Denmark, we will have to change legislation, have a definite direct ban on animal sex. And it's not like the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says so, superfluous. This is, by its very nature, necessary because, if we do not have that legislation, we risk that people, because it will be difficult to prove that the animal is harmed, will be able to do things that are actually psychologically or physically harmful to the animal. In addition, we are surrounded by countries that have banned animal sex in a similar way that we now want to do. It is clear that animal sex is not something that promotes Denmark's reputation in the world, especially when we want to be a pioneer country in the field of animal welfare. It is quite difficult for me to go to Brussels and argue to my colleagues in the Council of Ministers that they must indeed do more, as we do in Denmark, to raise the standards of animal welfare, and then they can look at me and say: Well, sorry, isn't Denmark one of the only countries in the world that has still allowed animal sex? We know that foreign media have quite often dealt with this problem and highlighted Denmark as such. We are also at risk, as more and more countries • last year Sweden is banning these forms of sex acts, that we can become such a place where people can go if they want to have sex with animals, but not in the countries from which they come. So for those reasons, I think that the proposal to ban sex with animals is a sensible proposal which I hope we can also get Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance to support, although unfortunately that does not sound like it. In relation to the part of the proposal that we want to ban the sale of dogs in markets, I would say that it has to be seen in the light of a greater effort, which is about the unfortunate death in Denmark of thousands of dogs every year, dogs that do not fail physically or mentally, but are killed because the owner is no longer able to care for the animal. It is typically something that has arisen because you haven't gotten into what it really means to have a dog and how difficult it really is and what it really takes. Therefore, as part of a greater effort, we would also like to try to put an end to impulse purchases, and that is why we want to ban the sale of dogs on markets. The speech from the Liberal Alliance was initiated by Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's side is very impressive that they are certainly in favour of good animal welfare and that animals must be treated properly. Later on, it has to be understood that it is only if market forces can secure it, because it is said later in the speech that it is not something that the state should interfere with. So it must be the market that has to control it. There the government has a somewhat different attitude. We certainly believe that if there are things going on out there that do not benefit animal welfare and that we want to change, we as a state have no objection to interfering in it, and that is what we are proposing here. Why there are no other animals covered in relation to sales on markets is certainly something I would like to share in discussing. The reason for this has been that, firstly, it is a specific action against dogs and, secondly, it is also the case that we have to find a balance, because this is not, of course, about us wanting people to buy fewer pets. On the contrary, I think it is quite healthy for a family, especially with children, to be responsible for pets, I think it can be quite enriching, so I am really very much in favour of people having many pets, and that is why we are not, as a starting point, interested in making it as difficult as possible to acquire pets. But what we are interested in is finding the balance where we ensure that it is done under decent conditions. If there are examples of data, experience showing that there are also other species that could be taken with benefit here without compromising that balance, then I am willing to discuss it as well. I do not think we are so divided about that particular part. It is also true to say that there is, of course, a very great difference between caring for a canary and a dog, and that is why it is clear that we must make a special effort towards more intelligent animals, but also animals which are very difficult to care for. In relation to the Council structure, where we are now rationalising, it should not be seen as an exercise of austerity, it should be seen as an opportunity to take some funds and use them more rationally, because there is some duplication of work in the committees that are now sitting, there is even some confusion of people, and this is due to historical reasons, because these areas of competence have been moved around a little from the ministries. In the past, most of what you know in the Ministry of Justice is now in the Ministry of Food, and in order to avoid the inappropriate structure, we have chosen to put up with this rationalisation, which among other things. In addition, more funds will be added to the Animal Health Council. Of course, if there are any questions of a clear nature, we can either take them here or in committee. Finally, to the part of the proposal on pet breeding, I would like to say that I do not think anyone spoke negatively, so I should not dwell on it for a long time, but just say that it is of course a question of not producing animals because of fashions or such tendencies, because people think it is funny or clever where animal welfare is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224145821	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments, the first being from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224145828	Thank you. I read out of both the bill and hear from the Minister's speech that a ban on animal sex is based on an animal welfare point of view and not on a sexually moral point of view, and I think most people in the Chamber feel the same way. But that is why, as I said in my speech, we come into this grey area, where we say that we have a production farm, where we inseminate animals and castrate animals, we have pets, where male cats are castrated, so that they do not strangle in the corners, so if it is not a matter of moral action behind it, but on how we treat animals, does the Minister agree that there is a grey area there? It is not so clear to set up a dividing line in relation to how we treat animals. In other words, when we castrate and inseminate production animals, we also treat them in a certain way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224145938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224145939	I'm not quite sure I understand the question, but of course there is a difference between an insemination and a sex act with animals, just as there is with humans. I don't think people have any trouble seeing the difference between a sex act and an insemination in humans, which is why you shouldn't have it in relation to animals either. So I don't know if it's a grey area, I might think it's quite clear. Where there may be a problem is in relation to the fact that we are now doing something to ensure animal welfare, but with that legislation we will also cover theoretical examples where there might be some who had sex with animals where animal welfare is not affected. Firstly, I would now like to question how often this can happen at all, because I now believe that animals will also suffer psychological damage in the vast majority of cases. But it has to be said that here the consideration for the animal, that is, the weak part, is higher than the consideration for those who may have a sexuality they will live out and thought they could live it out in a good way for the animal. I do not think that will happen at all, by the way. But even if it could theoretically, it is something we are willing to live with, because consideration for the animal here comes first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150049	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150052	I agree with that. I do not think, however, that this comparison can be made in relation to the fact that there is also a difference between a sex act and an insemination, because if a woman is inseminated, it is because she wants to; it is a choice, it is not so with animals. And that's what this discussion is all about, that is, that animals cannot say on or off in relation to the animal sex section, which is why we are a majority in favour of banning it. But we still have a discussion; it is not the case that we do not in any way exceed the integrity of animals in Denmark. We keep pets, we keep production animals. I would like to ask the Minister: is there still a large number of areas in animal welfare where improvements can be made also in the area of production agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150138	I did not say that insemination of humans is the same as insemination of animals, I said that, like there is a difference between a sex act with an animal and the insemination of an animal, there is also a difference with humans. And just as humans can be distinguished, animals can also be distinguished. If you are going to have the discussion about whether inseminating animals is a sex act, I would say: no, it is not a sex act. This is done under orderly conditions with professionals. If this is done in a way that harms the welfare of the animal under the Animal Protection Act, it is of course also punishable to the last part of the question: are there other animal welfare issues that need to be changed in Denmark in the right direction, in other words to protect the animals better? Yes, there is. I do not think the rapporteur has any doubt about that either. Since I became a minister, I have constantly presented measures to improve animal welfare, and I will continue to do so on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150229	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150233	It is now almost 10 years since we in the Danish People's Party proposed this. We have proposed it a number of times, four times, as far as I remember, and the Social Democrats have voted against it every single time. The last time we dealt with it, it was very clear that the legislation in force seemed to be comprehensive, but now we can understand it in the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Orla Hav, that it was actually most of all because you wanted to shut the mouths of the Danish People's Party. One was tired of there being campaigns on the Danish People's Party website. So I just want to know if this is an opinion that the Minister shares? Because when we have had the debate in the past, ministerial colleagues have said that it was not a problem and that the legislation was comprehensive, and now it appears that it is actually to silence the Danish People's Party because you are tired of this campaign that the Danish People's Party has been running in the media.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150319	I can deny that this bill has anything to do with the Danish People's Party. Here too, the Danish People's Party has not succeeded in gaining any influence, just as you have not succeeded in the 10 years you had power. I'm one of those people who clearly remember how Thulesen Dahl always came along with this bill of finance with all the yellow bills. Those were all the things he wanted, and he got 10, 20, 25 things every time. These were all sorts of things, often very detailed described things that the Danish People's Party got through, otherwise they would not support the government. There was just one small thing: Those suggestions were never about animal welfare! So if you wanted that proposal through, you could have easily got it through. You could've just told V and K that it had to go through. Now a minister has come to suggest it. I think, frankly, that it would suit the rapporteur to commend that proposal rather than try to talk so desperately about what was done 10 years ago when, incidentally, we ourselves had the power to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150409	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150413	Now we are no longer going back than two years, while the Social Democratic Party was in power, where the Social Democratic Food Minister stood and rejected it down here. So we're not going back to VK time. We're actually going back to the former ministerial colleague, Mette Gjerskov. You could have just voted in favour of it. That's not what you chose to do. So this is a deeply ridiculous way of arguing about saying that we have not done well enough because we have not got it through. I told you it was because the Social Democrats did not vote in favour. Should I then use the same logic and say that we are now voting against because it is a socialist proposal? That is how we can get quite a long way in politics. Or I'd say we're not going anywhere. We have supported it all the way through for 10 years, you have said no all the way through for 10 years. Then it is not the fault of the Danish People's Party that it has come to nothing. Then it is the Social Democrats' fault that it has not happened. You could have just voted in favour earlier, even while you were in government yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150454	We just have to remember that you don't use direct charges. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150459	Instead of asking me to deal with what previous ministers have meant, I think it would be more appropriate to ask me to deal with what I mean. If the rapporteur does not understand that I am a little confused about the Danish People's Party, then I can give other examples of it. The Danish People's Party says that you care about animal welfare, but have not had a single real improvement in animal welfare achieved in the 10 years. At least I can't think of anyone. I was sitting down in Brussels trying to keep up with you quite well at home, and I have to say that the speeches you made sounded really good, but you just didn't get anything through. After all, you never had it made a decision. As recently as last year, you did not vote in this Chamber for the greatest improvement in animal welfare in Denmark for 15 years, according to the Animal Protection Directive, namely that lakes should no longer be confined to half their lives. The Danish People's Party could not support this. So you're good at talking about animal welfare, but you're really not good at producing results.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150552	Then it is Per Clausen from the Enhedslisten with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150556	I understand from the Minister that the risk that people might be convicted of behavior that did not harm animals was an unfortunate biocompetence of this legislation which was necessary. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Food whether the development work is capable of presenting a number of examples of how one would be able to lift the burden of proof that there was sexual relations with animals, but where one would not be able to lift the burden of proof that there had been damage to animals. Because what one might perhaps get a little impression of is that it is a question of whether this is going to play any role at all or whether it is really a sad form of symbolic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150640	If I'm going to follow the logic of sir... Per Mrs Clausen's argument must of course be that we really cannot have legislation in traffic which forbids driving across red lights, because there are plenty of examples of people driving across red lights in the middle of the night without harming anyone at all. It's just symbol politics. Of course, we cannot legislate that way. We have to say: what is the main purpose of our legislation? Yes, out in traffic is to prevent the accidents that can happen, even if that sometimes means that you have to keep too red, even if there is no reason to do so. This is something similar here, and I would first of all like to question whether there are cases where animals have not been damaged. Well, theoretically, there could be. I don't know if sir. Per Clausen has information about places where animal sex has taken place, where it has not harmed animals, and whether it is the minority rights that are so well defended. I don't know. But even if it were to be so, I would just like to say that there is simply nothing to do about it, because in the vast majority of cases it will be to the detriment of the animal and it will be very, very difficult to prove. This may be possible in some cases with the physical part, but with regard to the psychological part of the damage to the animal it will be almost impossible to prove.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150747	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150750	So I would like to say that I am dealing with the statements made by the experts on this matter and that a large number of experts have put forward the view that there can be examples of sexual relations with animals where animals do not suffer harm. That's something the experts say... it's not something I'm smart about. But what I really asked the Minister for Food was: is it the case that the Minister for Food expects that there will now be a number of cases where people will be convicted of sexual relations with animals and that we will be able to lift the burden of proof, but that we would not be able to lift a burden of proof that the animals had suffered damage? Well, you have to assume that this must lead to a number of cases, otherwise I do not quite understand the purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150836	As a starting point, I don't expect people to break the law, sir. Per Clausen, so that's the answer: No, I don't expect that to happen. But if Mr. Per Clausen asks me if I expect this to have a preventive effect, then the answer is yes. One should not have dealt with this very long or been particularly thorough in researching what is being written about us in international media and on various websites dealing with it here, to see that Denmark has been highlighted as one of the very few countries where this is still not banned. So it doesn't take much imagination to imagine that there would be people who would travel in Denmark to be able to exercise that kind of sexuality. They will then no longer be able to do so, so there will be a preventive effect. What a preventive effect there will be is difficult to say, just as it is difficult to say how many would run against red light, even if it was not prohibited to run against red light.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150929	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224150931	Firstly, I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for the professional and good approach that the Minister has to this proposal, and the argument, which is in stark contrast to the arguments put forward by the Socialist rapporteur in relation to the proposal here. I would actually like to ask you something quite different: this proposal on dogs, which may seem very sympathetic. But what I want to ask the Minister is whether the Minister will take the initiative to look at this much more closely. Because this proposal to ban the sale of dogs seems a little bit like it's something you just pick off the shelf and put in the bill. That may be a good thing to do, but we also know that many other things can happen. We've seen pictures, you can just go for a walk on Facebook. Then people bought a rooster or something for a bachelor party. Somebody buys a goat, and then you can run around with it. That's not good animal welfare. I would just like to ask the Minister whether he will not take the initiative to have an in-depth debate on how we can do this, so that we can still sell both chickens and, for that matter, dogs at exhibitions and markets, but, of course, in some orderly conditions, just as we have done with horses where we have introduced a horse passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151040	Thank you for those nice words, but I must say to the remark that it is just something that has just been tampered with that it is a little difficult to take seriously. This is part of a larger campaign, a Better Dog Life, which I think the questioner also knows, where we try to address the problem that somewhere between 10,000 and 12,000 physically healthy dogs are killed in Denmark every year. We have had a major information campaign in cooperation with various organisations to address this problem. So I actually believe that the questioner supports that. Compared with other animals, I have already said that I think we can look at that. Now it has not been the main purpose here. It has been dogs, and we must also remember to find that balance, as I said earlier. It's not that we want to make it harder for people to buy pets. On the contrary, we actually think it is a good idea for people to have pets. It is very good, especially for families with children, to have. And, of course, there is a big difference between having a canary and a dog. Canaries are easier, even if you have to take good care of a canary. I know I had one myself when I was a kid. But there is a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151150	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151153	But it was actually a question to the Minister whether the Minister will take the initiative, because I think it is right when you run this campaign. Too many animals are bought for fun. Pets are always such sweet animals, you can see. They are easy to handle, but suddenly the little puppy has become very big, and that can also happen to all sorts of other animals. We'll hear it when we talk to Cat's Watch. I think the challenge is as great with cats as with dogs. It's just another way some cats get killed than the way you put down dogs. That's why it was really just a question to the minister, since the minister is taking it up in this bill and I know that it's not just tampered with. But that is one solution that can be chosen, namely to ban anything. You could also take a dialogue and ask: How can we still have a nuanced picture of how to offer and sell pets, including dogs, and how to handle this sale of living beings? Because I think the Minister is also aware that a lot of funny things are being done with animals that are not very funny if you are expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151256	Yes, but as I think I have said a few times now, let us talk about whether there is anything we can do in relation to this proposal. But in addition, it is true. I'm looking at these things running and I'm very, very concerned that pets of all kinds are being treated properly. However, I would just like to emphasise that we need to do this in a sensible way, because this is not, of course, about restricting people from having pets. On the contrary, it is very good to have a pet. But all we can do to train better in relation to the different behavior and needs of different species, etc., must, of course, be done. Pulse buying is never a good idea, whether it's a dog or a canary, but it's worse when it's a dog, because canaries are, after all, easier to care for in a proper way animal welfare way than a dog.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151337	Thank you to the Minister for Food. As no one else has wished to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151355	The first rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151413	Thank you. In connection with the examination of the draft law, L 135, the law amending the Agricultural Support Act on the Fund, the Left will clearly vote against it, because the draft law includes, among other things:: point 1, appointment by the Minister of the President of the Agricultural Promille Tax Fund, the Agricultural Promille Tax Fund for Fruit and Horticulture and the Agricultural Fund for Organic Farming, so that the Chairman is no longer appointed, and the proposal will also mean a change in the composition of the Management Board of the Fund for Organic Farming; point 2, the requirement for the Funds to draw up proposals for multiannual strategies and 1-year action plans; point 3, the circle of pronouncing organisations will be extended to the public with the Danish Conservation Association and the Animal Protection; and point 4, the transfer of secretariat services from the profession to the NatureErhvervsstyrelsen. We note that the draft law contains various ministerial powers, and the proposal authorizes, among other things. the Minister of Food to appoint the chairman of the three funds. In the Left, we do not think that there is a reasonable basis for that ministerial power. In such a appointment there is no guarantee that the chairman has the necessary agricultural knowledge and, at the same time, the proposed composition of the boards means that situations may arise where only the President's vote will determine the outcome. We in the Left believe that the professional knowledge that has so far been provided by professional organisations is needed in the funds. The Left is opposed to the increased state involvement that the bill will mean. This will lead to a weakening of growth and employment to the detriment of Denmark, and instead the model of the premium funds must give the industry the heavy role in the decision-making process, as the interests of the industry must be taken into account in the use of the funds. We fear that the transfer of the secretariat to the NatureErhvervsstyrelsen will mean increased bureaucracy and longer processing times. We do not believe that administrative expenditure should be financed by the funds which the industry needs so much. When the main aim of the draft law is to strengthen the interaction between the Ministry's development activities, the focus is clearly away from growth and jobs, and in the Left we do not believe that the funds should be about all sorts of things other than strengthening competitiveness and the original aims of the past. The promo tax funds are important. The funds from them have contributed to Denmark having a very high degree of exploitation of, for example, Denmark. manure, the most climate-efficient food production and the largest share of organic production and marketing, as well as many other development measures for the industry over the years. It is important that the funds continue to be based on the profession, in our view, that the profession maintains the majority of the boards of the funds and that the funds continue to be managed by the profession itself. The Minister's proposal will eliminate that. The Left cannot support the bill, which should mean greater state interference when it comes to funds intended to help a profession in fierce competition. This creates the risk that the funds will be allocated unfocused and not used to the maximum benefit of the competitiveness of the industry. Let me also say quite clearly: we will not only vote against the proposal as it stands, we will also be in the Left clear work to try to get a majority at a time when this can be rolled back again • probably only after an election, but we will try to work for that. We think, when we look at it that way, that this bill is almost theft in broad daylight. The business has contributed well to the fact that this money has been collected. The industry has given priority to money for research, development, strengthening competitiveness and many other good things. After all, we think that the proposal here also goes the wrong way when we look at the administration, where it is that more money now appears to have to be withdrawn from the fund funds for administration. So there will be less money left for the original purpose. We think that's bad too. And then it is quite clear that the government and the minister seem to want to remotely control the money to those purposes which, as it were, are of interest to the state. I think that greater emphasis should continue to be placed on what the industry also points to the need for development in terms of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151859	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Orla Sea from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224151902	Thank you. Denmark's strong position as an agricultural country and as a food producing country is very much linked to the fact that we have managed and mastered to create good and constructive cooperation between the development and research environments and then the way in which things are organised through legislation and initiatives that way around. One of the instruments that has been used is the creation of these bloody funds, which have worked quite well for many years, and with this initiative we are doing a little bit of the way the funds work; it is true that we are moving them a little closer to the ministry, and we do not see the big problem in that. In fact, we believe that it is good and constructive to ensure that the knowledge and the opportunities for development in which insight is acquired come close to the legislative process. Quite contrary to what the Left says, we are quite happy that these funds are moving a little closer to the ministry and the ministry's work. On the other hand, we believe that it is really important that we maintain that this is happening in interaction between the profession, the ministry and the minister's act in this area, and we do not see any need for any change whatsoever. So we are very pleased with the changes being proposed and with the fact that we can continue an offensive policy to ensure that Denmark is both an agricultural country and, to a large extent, a strong food producing country. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152058	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152105	Thank you. I have a question for the rapporteur, because this is the first time I have had the opportunity to ask the Social Democrats why this bill has been tabled. I've read it twice to find out why this has to be changed, and I haven't been able to find it. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: what makes it better to get closer to the Ministry? Why is it important to have the administration transferred to the NatureErhvervsstyrelsen, thereby increasing costs significantly? That is the picture I am left with, because the Danish People's Party has not been called to any meetings about why this bill has come forward. That is why, of course, I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is behind the fact that we are now dealing with this bill today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152149	I think sir... René Christensen rightly asks his question to the Minister. It is on the Minister's initiative that this bill has emerged. I would very much like to justify this by saying that I believe it is appropriate, on the basis of a recognition that it is appropriate for the knowledge being developed to come close and perhaps closer to the ministry and the ministry's way of working and thus also to give greater opportunity to make a recording. But I think sir... René Christensen will receive a more comprehensive answer and perhaps a more friendly reply from the Minister. Well, I can hear that Mr. Knox... René Christensen cares very much that he gets kind answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152225	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152230	Thank you. It is clear that it is almost black and white that it will be more expensive to administer. Money is being taken away from the fund funds. How does the Socialist rapporteur feel about the fact that there will then be less money left to, if I may say so, the original aims?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152248	I am quite sure that this issue will also be resolved in connection with this. And so much less money I don't think that's what we're talking about. I think it is really, really important that there is a good synergy in what is being done by the Minister and the Ministry together with the industry through the knowledge environments that have been worked up through the premium funds. I think it is very wise to secure the optimum leverage between those environments, and I think this could be one of the ways to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152323	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152326	Thank you for that answer. This can almost only be interpreted as a concession, a clear yes to the fact that it will be more expensive to administer it. The rapporteur says that it will be solved in other ways. It must almost be interpreted as meaning that some money will be added to this. It's kind of floating in the air. But what does it really do to move the management of this money away from the profession and to make it purely state tasks? It has been said on many different occasions that we want to do good things for the industry, including in our food and growth negotiations. Now, like the other way, it is said that the profession must no longer have any influence on it. Why can't the profession do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152411	Well, if sir... Erling Bonnesen had listened to what I said in my rapporteur's speech, and he had heard me say that we are in fact very much celebrating a principle that it is wise for the industry to work closely with the Ministry in areas where we know that it is absolutely essential that we create the best possible conditions for us to make the profession work. Then I must admit that I do not have the Ministry's knowledge of the individual details of how this can be handled. We can have a debate on that afterwards, but I think that there is some thought that this need not be more expensive. This is, of course, something that can be argued by the Left, where one does not like the proposal. And I can say that it is probably a marginal cost that can be put into something that already works very well in the Ministry. So it's gonna be a bit of a claim against claim. I do not think there will be any less money available.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152505	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152520	Thank you, President. So here we are with L 135, and the main ingredient of the proposal is that it should be closer to the Ministry. Another thing that is also included in the proposal is that now the President is to be appointed by the Minister. • The Minister is given more powers and the secretariat service must now be transferred to the NatureErhvervsstyrelsen. I have read the proposal twice, because I thought that there is of course a point in doing this, namely that you will get something more out of that money and that you will do something more. It could also be because one is unhappy with the way the fund is run. If you look at it that way and look at what these funds have actually been doing just within the short horizon, which I think we can all remember, then the premium funds have been very good at finding new solutions, even when we in the Folketing come up with stricter legislation in relation to animal welfare and when we come up with stricter legislation for the environment. That is where the bloody funds have been very good at finding out how it can be put into practice and into the industry, without always having to stand with the debate that we are screwing the wrong way, that it will change turnover in the industry and that now it will all close down. There we have to recognise that we can see that the premium funds have really proved their worth. They have helped solve some of the challenges that have also come because you have some other parameters that you measure. Today, Danish agriculture has a world record for the use of manure. This has been achieved through cross-cutting cooperation between livestock production, plant breeding projects and the tax funds. Danish agriculture accounts for the largest share of organic production and marketing in the world, which has also been achieved through a broad effort from various tax funds. Danish agriculture has the highest and most secure production of feed and food with the lowest consumption of pesticides compared to other major food exporting countries. It is also because we have been good on the innovation side, where precisely the premium funds have been of great use. I cannot read that the Minister's approach to this should be that the premium funds are doing badly. That is certainly not what I can read from the proposal that has been put forward. That is why we must say from the Danish People's Party that we are somewhat surprised that the proposal is coming without any desire to debate why we want to change the price-tax funds. The former rapporteur was told that this is probably not going to be more expensive, but it is a claim against a claim. What we can at any rate read out is that today it costs 1.5 million. kr. to drive it, and forward-looking it will be, when it is over on the NatureErhvervsstyrelsen, 8 million. kr. It will therefore be considerably more expensive to operate it on the basis of the proposal that lies here. So it's going to go from 1.5 million to 1.5 million. kr. to cost 8 million in the future. kr. To drive it. What we can at least read in the proposal is that the administration will be far, far more expensive. That is why the Danish People's Party cannot, of course, support the proposal. We do not see the purpose of this. And, of course, when the Minister comes to the floor, I will ask him what is behind this proposal for discussion in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152835	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224152848	It is, of course, the case that this government has chosen to pursue a policy in which we would like to have ambitious agriculture, a clever agriculture, a highly efficient agriculture. In one direction, it is known throughout the world for quality and quality food, for safety and for animal welfare, and, on the other, it is more specialized in organic farming, an agriculture with finished products with perhaps a local history that can create local jobs. That is the vision, and that agriculture must be in our country, while there is also room for nature, while at the same time we need clean water, while at the same time we need drinking groundwater, etc. It is a very big vision that we have had the Nature and Agriculture Commission to sit and work on first and which we have then translated into growth plans and various other initiatives for agriculture. In order to make this vision become even more real and to get even further beyond the ramp, it is important that we have a strategy for where we are going. And what we're doing today is just putting these funds into the work for this strategy. It's just to make sure things are thought together. That is why we are changing the premium funds today. That is why we are moving the secretariat service; that we change the rules for the board composition; that we ask for a strategy and an action plan and ask them to design specific key challenges and areas of action. So it is a question of going further in terms of creating a strong agriculture in Denmark, which is known for what we should be known for: quality agriculture, animal welfare, the environment, and not least that we are, of course, a competitive agriculture. So that is the vision behind the change that is happening today, even if you can be a little confused by hearing the debate. There should be no doubt about that. That is why the Radical Left can support L 135.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153101	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153116	SF also supports this bill. We have a few comments to make on this. This excludes, for example: The production funds, which the SF back in the parliamentary year 2009-10 in L 144 wanted to be subject to greater transparency. We would like to ask some questions about this during the committee work. The Ministry justifies the exception by the fact that the funds derived from it come directly from agricultural production. Although the production funds are still located in agriculture in terms of secretariat, etc., with the same board composition, the question of openness and use of funds in a broader social perspective remains relevant. Similarly, we will also raise the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission on agricultural funds, including the extent to which the funds will have increased opportunities to support wider social objectives, for example. climate, nature and the environment, within and beyond what lies in the strengthening of overall development and of co-ordination between the Funds, rural programme schemes and the green development and demonstration programme, all of which are also intended to boost and safeguard the industry in the future. But overall we support the bill, and we are also pleased that the Danish Nature Conservation Association and Animal Protection have received a representation. We do not think it is so strange that some funds, which should have a social purpose and where we have some wish for where we are going, should also lie with a minister who, of course, needs the support of the Folketing to provide some guidance on how best to spend the money that we get in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153306	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153309	That is really only for the last comment, otherwise I did not have much to say about the rapporteur. If you look back in history, you can see that this is actually voluntary, precisely that agriculture pays for it also going back to agriculture. It has worked very well, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur, who is also saying that this should be closer to the government: are you not afraid by the SF that this is now much more regarded as a tax that you pay than it is considered that it is some money that you pay for some innovation in your own profession? At least that is what is a little bit about fearing it. Doesn't the SF fear that when you've had something that's worked well for so many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153352	It can be said that money that has to go back to agriculture comes back to agriculture as well. Then we have a number of pesticide taxes that can be said to promote a certain development. We also have what is called MUDP, where with the latest Finance Act it was SF very pleased that we worked actively for • have a board of directors so that the work that is going on there can also have a political aim. In this way, we do not believe that there is any disguise in the political desire to promote a particular development. One might say that if the government were to change after the next elections, where the DF will support a bourgeois prime minister, then one could be worried about what that minister would do, but that is the risk we have to face when we want something to be tied up in a political framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153446	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153448	That is the challenge of ministerial powers. They are there all the time, and this is happening across governments. But when you read the proposal, you can see that it says that it has to be ensured that there is this cooperation between the government and the foundations, and that is what we agree with in the Danish People's Party. Of course there has to be. After all, you cannot have as much money in a fund that runs in a completely opposite direction than how else is going. But does the SF have an experience that it works badly today, that is, that there is a bad dialogue between changing governments and the bloody funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153522	I do not want to say that I am close enough to say that it is fair that I have to comment on it up here, but I would like to say that I want there to be a clearer political direction. I also think that the way in which the board is composed is reasonable. After all, some changes have also been made and, overall, there have been a great many respondents who have given answers. I do not think it is a problem that it is tied up in a political context when pesticide taxes come in and we use them to pursue some objectives. At the same time, I would like to say to the rapporteur's first point that it is agriculture's money that that money comes back to agriculture. Nothing is being taken from agriculture in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153610	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224153618	There should be no doubt that Enhedslisten can support the legislative proposal that has been tabled here, and if you have to say something critical about it, it is in fact far too little far-reaching. In fact, we would have liked this change to have been made in relation to the production levy funds, which are, of course, allowed to continue unchanged. When we do that, it is because these funds and the way they are managed are something that has been discussed for years. I have spent quite a lot of hours discussing with people who have been on these boards and who have expressed the clear view that they actually thought it was a huge challenge and a huge problem that agriculture, that is, the industry, had such a large, indeed almost absolute, influence on how that money was spent. For it was clear that some more holistic views, some views on innovation and change processes, were often rejected in favour of distributing money internally for purposes which were considered relevant in agriculture and in professional organisations themselves. It is also clear from the answer given by Agriculture & Food itself that one of the things you are worried about is whether enough money will now also be set aside for overhead in the future. One of the references is that you have some kind of operation in what you so call, I think it is the Knowledge Centre for Agriculture, which is, of course, such a beautiful term for the interest of Agriculture & Food. And there's a little concern that the operating funds will be dried up because you can't pull the overhead out of this system to the same extent that you can now pull the overhead out of this system. So on the part of the Enhedslisten, there should be no doubt that, in this way, we think that there have been problems with agricultural organisations managing and managing the distribution of funds for the development of Danish agriculture, both in relation to issues of viability and also issues of being able to use the money for wider social purposes, including the consumer's interest in sustainablely produced food, and on the development of agriculture. We think this has been a real challenge, which the Minister and the government are then trying to take up with this proposal. Although one can of course wonder why it is coming, one could of course return to the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which everyone was so excited about. In fact, there was a call for the agricultural funds to be changed in order to focus on wider societal challenges, i.e.: agricultural production, e.g. projects related to nature, environment and climate, to concentrate resources and activities on cross-cutting development-oriented challenges, including: could be achieved by prioritizing the two Funds' support for these activities rather than production and marketing activities. It was also pointed out that the public and social interests of the fund boards had to be strengthened and that this could be done by ensuring that public interests were given an extra place on the boards of the production levy funds and the organic farming fund and that the chairman of the levy fund was personally appointed by the Minister for Food. I mean, it's not like there haven't been a lot of arguments to suggest that this change was important and sensible. Perhaps I think that those who were so enthusiastic when the Nature and Agriculture Commission presented its report should have read it a little more carefully. It was as if they were stalling somewhere, saying that business should have better opportunities to make money, and then they never came anymore. I think that is stupid when it comes to praising such statements and reports, i.e. if you do not get them read through completely; I think that is inappropriate. In relation to the administration and the transfer of it to the board, there has of course been some discussion, and there has also been criticism. There are also some who are very positive about the other elements of the draft law, which are a little concerned about whether we can now ensure that there is adequate non-bureaucratic administration of it here. In other words, the consultation parties, who in themselves agree that it is a bad idea that it lies in Agriculture & Food, because it causes some kind of bias, may also find it problematic that it gets into the board and has also been critical of it. I would just like to say that it is at least one of the things that we will put a great deal of emphasis on in the questions we will put in committee work, in other words to ensure that it is made clear that it is still the board that makes the strategy, that it is the board that distributes the money, that it is the board that decides how much should be given to overhead, and that it is also the board that decides how the money should be given, and thus can maintain an administration that is not unnecessarily bureaucratic. I think that is important to be aware of, because it should not be the case that this, which we believe contains a number of sensible changes, which also represent improvements, leads to the loss of the positive elements of bureaucracy on the ground because of such tendencies towards bureaucracy in the state administration. I think we can ensure this in the committee's work, that is to say that it will be done in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154122	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154126	I would just like to make a correction to the rapporteur, because it says precisely that the Ministry of Food must approve the Fund's multiannual strategies, so that it will be over there, so that we get the last stamp on the fact that this is the way we are going to go. What I really want to ask the rapporteur about and now I know that the Enhedslisten would like everything to be in the state is that there have also been some synergies in that one has been able to say from the political team: we want to bring down the mortality rate, we want to bring down the pig mortality rate, we want to get away the lay wounds and they have actually disappeared. It has been possible to say to the profession: you have to solve that. And then the bloody funds have been able to help solve it, including financially. We have been able to make demands, and then the industry has had some muscle, also financially, to carry out the task that has been entrusted to them politically. Is the rapporteur not a little afraid that there will now be such a debate that when we make professional demands, among other things? whether sommortality or pig mortality, is it also very much a question of how the strategy has now been put down, how much money has been set aside? We haven't had that discussion yet. There we have had a professional debate with the industry, what to say, and said: we want it here. And then there's always been that hidden threat: If you can't figure it out for yourself, we'll help you with it afterwards. Isn't the rapporteur afraid that we're losing that momentum?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154238	I have to admit, when I hear Mr. Simpson... René Christensen describes the development of Danish agriculture in relation to the animal welfare area, I do not recognize the description. I don't recognize the description that we've solved the problem of mammalian mortality. In fact, pig producers are planning to increase the number of mammalian mortality quite dramatically. Nor can we talk about the fact that the general welfare of food production has been radically improved beyond the legislative measures we have taken, of which the Danish People's Party has supported some and not supported others. Then I would just like to say that I also think it is reasonable enough that it is the minister in office who approves the overall strategies at all times. I assume that this gives the board a great deal of space, since it is they who formulate the strategies that will subsequently have to be approved, but it also gives a very large space of space in terms of how it is to be implemented and implemented. I have no wish for there to be narrow government governance of this money, but of course I agree that there is an overall framework which is also laid down in a strategy to which the Minister-in-Office of the Council is at any time in office, and that is sometimes good and sometimes less good.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154351	René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154353	Yeah, it's always gonna be like that with animal welfare and who did what. I will be very surprised if the industry is working on a plan to increase pig mortality, because a political agreement has actually been made that it should go down. This has been achieved for a number of years. There has also been a political agreement with the profession that the death rate should be reduced. At some point we will reach the end of the road, and the profession will have to have delivered on that agenda as well. Where I said they've reached it was, for example, with shoulder wounds. We are virtually not seeing them anymore. It was a lot up in the past. Back to the question again: is the rapporteur not at all nervous that what should be said about political objectives now becomes much a discussion about how much money has been set aside in the fund, where we have never had the political discussion in this Chamber before? It is coming much, much closer now, in terms of how to hang the political visions and the economy in the fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154445	Thank you. Per Clausen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154448	I cannot recall that we have had any discussion whatsoever which has touched on any problem in relation to agriculture, where it has not been a great deal on the part of agriculture about money and who should pay. I have to be honest with you. I have no I have the clear expectation of Agriculture & Food that they will also focus on that in the future. I just want to say that. Well, I remember I've been in Parliament for almost too many years now, some might say the whole fight about the lying wounds. I can assure you, sir. René Christensen that it has been a real, really tough political struggle to resolve this matter. And Agriculture & Food has not been such a positive player all the way through.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154536	Thank you. Then the next speaker is in line, sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154539	On behalf of Mrs Mette Bock, I should like to make the following rapporteur's speech: that sounds very reasonable. The aim of the bill is to strengthen the strategic targeting and interaction between the Ministry of Food and Agriculture's activities in the field of agriculture and food and the activities of the Agricultural Promille Tax Fund, the Fruit Growing and Gartnerry Fund and the Organic Agriculture Fund. The problem is that the real purpose of the change is to shift the decision-making powers from agricultural organisations to Slotsholmen. The aim of the Fund is to strengthen the development potential and competitiveness of agriculture and the food sector. The funds are, so to speak, a plaster on the wound of farmers who are being picked and milked today by having to pay outrageous sums of fees and fees every year. A certain amount of these large sums will then be placed in the bloody funds. The funds, which each year amount to more than 1⁄4 billion. kr., is awarded subsequently by a board appointed by the Minister. Today, the boards have a majority of members representing the profession. This majority disappears with the proposed amendment of the law. Firstly, we in the Liberal Alliance are basically critical of the overall pressure on taxes and charges that are currently being imposed on agriculture. We want that to be relieved. Secondly, we are critical of the current composition of the board of directors of the premium funds, as we believe that individual agricultural organisations have far too dominant influence. Having said that, however, we still see the proposed legislative amendment as a clear step backwards, because now the decisive influence on the use of agricultural funds is being shifted to a populist government's own offices, which can then use the means to promote an agenda that does not support the development of the agricultural industry, but rather supports a political agenda that is supposed to be promoting ecology, the environment and animal welfare. That is simply not right. The Liberal Alliance wants a different agenda. Firstly, the burden on agriculture must be eased; secondly, we must ensure that, as long as these do exist, the funds in the premium funds are managed by the industry itself and not by officials at Slotsholmen or the underlying desire of a red government to remove the carpet under Danish conventional agriculture. We are happy to discuss the current board composition, but any changes must go in a completely different direction from the one proposed here. The Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154819	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224154830	On behalf of Daniel Rugholm, I have to say the following: the main objective of this bill is to strengthen the strategic targeting and interaction between the Ministry of Food's agricultural and food development activities and fund funds in three key agricultural funds. The new thing about this is that the Minister will appoint the President of the Funds. The Minister would like to approve the Foundation's strategies and action plans as well as transfer the secretariat service from the profession to the NatureErhvervsstyrelsen. We only interpret it in one way and it is difficult to interpret it in other ways, and that is that the Minister wants his own political interests into the funds. It's unhealthy, and it's a bad thing. Funds have been of great importance to the food industry for many years. For example, funds from the premium funds have contributed to Denmark having a very high international utilisation of manure, that we have the most climate-efficient food production and the largest share of organic production and marketing. That is why we are now very concerned that these funds are now being mixed up with the Minister's strategies and wishes and political means. First of all, the draft law involves a state takeover of tasks, which is being done in a very good way today in cooperation between the public and the industry. Secondly, the draft law provides for the stateisation of funds intended to help a food industry in fierce international competition. This poses a real risk that the funds will be spread over all winds rather than being targeted to benefit the competitiveness of the industry. Thirdly, the draft law brings about a change in the composition of the boards, which will shift the influence of the funds away from the profession, including the employees' organisations. All three parts will weaken agriculture, will weaken agricultural development and will weaken the involvement of the industry and the close cooperation between employers and employees, for example, which is the basis for Denmark's position of strength in the food sector. If the premium funds are to continue to strengthen the competitiveness of the industry, we believe it is essential that the industry should continue to maintain the majority of the board of the funds, and then the premium funds should continue to be anchored in a partnership between the public and the industry. In this context, it is essential that the funds continue to be administered by the industry itself. When the industry administers the funds, experience is that there is a transfer of the great knowledge constantly generated in the industry to the projects financed from the resources of the levy fund. It is not very clever political craftsmanship that the Minister has not involved parties other than the left so that a long-lasting solution could be found. We have not been involved, we have strong views on why we are also ready to roll it back after an election with the other bourgeois parties. This proposal is not about growth, increased competitiveness or more jobs, and in fact it is a little uncertain what the government's justification is for making the legal basis about. A large proportion of the consultation parties are also very critical of several elements of the proposal. Even 3F is opposed to parts of the government's proposal, a single food business is against it and we understand that. We therefore lack a justification for the changes. We believe that the industry should manage the funds in close cooperation with the public sector. We believe that the influence of the industry in the funds should not be suppressed, as the draft law suggests, and we believe that the industry should keep the secretariat of the funds. So it makes the best sense. Having said that, we do not, of course, deny that improvements can be made to the work of the funds. We can always become wiser and make them more effective, but the starting point must be that the funds must remain linked to the industry, and that is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224155236	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Food for the final remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224155244	Let me begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the comments that have been made in this Chamber today. The Danish food cluster is one of the world's strongest, and it must remain so. We must support this and we must further develop it. At the same time, we know that the industry has many major cross-cutting challenges to solve. On the one hand, the prospects have never been better: the global middle class will grow with an additional 3 billion people by 2030. This means a huge market for safe and sustainable Danish quality products and solutions. On the other hand, almost one in four farmers today are in economic crisis and the total debt has reached staggering 350 billion. kr. New knowledge and new solutions and business models are crucial for success here. The aim of the bill is therefore that the funds should strengthen the agricultural industry even more as a supporting pillar in the Danish welfare society through development with growth and earnings, environment, climate, ecology and animal welfare at the heart. This means that we need to strengthen the activities of the Funds with the innovation and development activities which, moreover, exist in the field of the Ministry of Food. We must ensure even better coherence between development and demonstration in the GUDP and the funds, and the link with the rural programme must be strengthened. It is crucial for the future of the industry that opportunities are reduced and exploited even better than they are today. Let us remember that the funds distribute almost 0.25 billion annually. kr. of taxpayers' money. That money must make maximum use of it for the industry and for society. In order to create the framework for modernising the funds, I have therefore put forward proposals for the appointment of the Presidents by ministers, the development of strategies and action plans to be approved and made publicly available, and the relocation of the Secretariat. In particular, the question of the location of the secretariat has caused concern to many. I would like to stress that the secretariat service of the three foundations is being organized under the roof of the NatureErhvervsstyrelsen to ensure that the secretariat service is independent and that the boards of the funds are guaranteed impartial advice and assistance. This gives the boards a better opportunity to meet the major societal challenges in relation to, among other things: income and development, animal welfare and the environment facing the food sector. At the same time, the new secretariat support the combination of the fund's activities with the Ministry of Food's innovation and development activities. For the same reason, it is not a solution to place the secretariat in a very third place. The costs of secretarial services have also raised questions. I would just like to say here that the Ministry of Food considers that up to 3% should be allocated. the funding of the funds, but not exceeding the actual costs, for the financing of the secretarial services, a level which, moreover, corresponds to the administration of the GUDP, and thus also a level to which the parties who have expressed their critical views in this procedure are not normally critical when it comes to the GUDP. Having said that, I would also like to make it clear that there is no question of changing the competences of the fund boards with the transfer of the secretariat. The Boards of the Funds continue to decide which specific projects are to be supported, and the Boards of Directors propose strategies and action plans for the approval of the Minister. The Secretariat works for the boards of the Funds under the same roof as the GUDP Secretariat and the offices working on innovation and the rural programme. Of course, there will be good synergies from that. In order to safeguard the future of the funds and thus the development of the industry, I will also look in 2016 at an alternative allocation of funds between the funds. Ecology is, of course, a sector in Denmark that is on the way forward. I am sure that most people agree with this and that is why from 2016 the Fund for organic farming will be increased by 5 million. kr. EUR 15 million; kr. The main purpose of the funds is to contribute to the development of the industry. I think that the development of the horticultural sector must be improved so that the development potential of this industry is supported, and that is why I would also like to increase the subsidy for the Gartneriet Development Fund from around ECU 100 million. 7 million kr. EUR 15 million; kr., so that the foundation can really live up to its new name. In conclusion, I believe that the draft law will safeguard the future of the funds so that they can continue to contribute to jobs, growth and development in the food industry, as well as in a long-term, sustainable way. I look forward to a good and constructive committee work on the Danish Parliament's Food Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224155737	A brief comment from Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224155741	Thank you. After all, agriculture is in a particularly difficult, hard-pressed economic situation. I think that is quite clear to everyone. And so, you might say, everything possible should be done to ensure that funds for continued development are made available. Then there comes a proposal here from the government, which has its majority in place for the red side, to reduce the number of funds for research and development and thus increase administrative expenditure. It doesn't seem to be very good. Then I noted very well that the Minister said in his speech that there would be a little extra for horticulture. Well, that's fine, it's probably some money, I guess, taken from rural funds. We have probably supported that too. That's good enough. But why is it that more money needs to be spent on administration and less money on development? It's kind of central.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224155830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224155833	Today, the profession itself performs the secretariat function, as it appears. In this context, I would like to remind you that, in the second year, an audit study is currently being carried out against the industry's own former Knowledge Centre for Pig Production, and that large amounts of money have to be reimbursed to both the European Union and the agricultural funds because of errors in the subsidy administration. So far, the NatureErhvervsstyrelsen has decided a case in which the profession has to pay 600,000 DKK. back in sanctions and unjustified subsidies. All in all, 13 projects are in the spotlight, with a total grant of 35.9 million. kr. Here, with the assistance of the current Secretariat of Agriculture & Food, the Funds have paid subsidies to many projects which have not been properly accounted for and managed. This has therefore been a rather lax procedure and the use of public funds. I therefore do not think, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen here makes it necessary to be receptive to ensuring more careful and regular handling in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224155930	Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224155932	If the errors which the Minister correctly points out were an expression of such an overall assessment in this area, there could be good grounds for action. You always have to react if you find mistakes, I agree with that. But then the conclusion, I understand, from the Minister, that those errors that have now been made are becoming a general mistrust of all the development work that has taken place, and the fact that the Minister is using it as a reason now, is certainly fantastic. So a general mistrust of the whole profession in that way seems to me to be a very strong conclusion of the Minister to draw. So my question would be: does the Minister not at all trust that the industry can do some things on the development side itself and that, in general, they have actually done well enough in spite of these mistakes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160016	It was not a general mistrust of the profession that I expressed. It was sir. Erling Bonnesen, who came to this conclusion. I replied to Erling Bonnesen's question about how it could be right that more money should be spent on administration: yes, it may be true that more money should be spent on administration, because the administration has been quite inadequate and it is not just in one case. I can also mention another. In the production levy fund for sheep farmers, it has been necessary to demand subsidies of several hundred thousand kroner, because the fund granted grants without respecting basic eligibility rules and because a number of subsidies were paid on a false basis. Both in relation to the VSP and in relation to the second example I mention here, it is a question of having complaints and that it is audits that have led to this being discovered here. So it is not something the secretariat or the profession itself has discovered. So yes, maybe there is, no, not just maybe, there is something that might suggest that you have done it too leniently, and therefore there is probably nothing to say that if you have to do it properly, it will be a little more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160111	Sir. René Christensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160116	Finally, it is because the government believes that the fund has been run laxly. Then I certainly did not interpret the Minister's words; that is what the Minister is saying. So it's a lax approach to these funds they've had on the side of Agriculture & Food, and that's why you want to change it. It is not clear in many places from the submission speech or in the legislation that this is the distrust that the government has and that is why one wants another regime to change it here. I would like to hear from the Minister: is that the evidence that we are seeing this today? I guess that's not because the minister can't have 3 to 4 million moved by conversation. kr. for ecology, may have a few million kroner moved to horticulture. I am quite sure that the Minister has both the power and the ability to do so in relation to these premium funds. But is it the last thing that matters? It is, of course, good to know when reading the draft law has not been able to find the reasons why it should happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160218	No, it's not the last thing that's been crucial. It was just to answer Mr. Erling Bonnesen's concern about how it could be, it cost a little more. Yes, it was just to point out that perhaps too little has been spent where the service is now. In any case, the operation has not been good enough. I noticed that Mr. René Christensen was stunned that I used the word laxly, so I would like to ask Mr. René Christensen, if he does not agree that there has been a lax round of money here. In relation to the general reasons, I have explained them quite well in my speech, but I would like to clarify this by saying that I also think that the Danish Conservation Association and Animal Protection now have something to say in relation to how this money is to be spent is good. And, frankly, I am surprised that the Danish People's Party may be opposed to the animals' protection now, after all, being given a limited vote in relation to being able to influence in the direction of better animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160305	René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160307	The Danish People's Party has not said that at any time, which is why we should not comment on it. What is only interesting here is once again that the Minister makes a proposal, and of course the Minister has a majority behind his proposal. That is fair enough, but one can say that this is a scheme that has been running since 1972, and now one wants to change it significantly. It would have been incredibly useful, even for the people's regime, for a meeting to have been convened to discuss why this should be done. And that's why we can only stand and interpret it. So it is either because the Minister has not had the power and ability to move a few million kroner to ecology and horticulture, or because it has not been possible to have a dialogue that some organisations might also have the opportunity to get a voice on the board. That is why you choose to change this, and of course the Danish People's Party takes note of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160358	Sir. René Christensen says you can't know why. I mean, I have spoken in many places in the public debate. I have just made a nine-page speech, which I can also convey to Mr. René Christensen, if he wants to read it. In this way, I explained quite in detail why I think this is serious. Well, then, sir. René Christensen then well say that one is not in fact opposed to the protection of animals and the Danish Nature Conservation Association having influence, and that is possible, but that is what you are going to vote against. So if you vote against this, you're voting against the fact that you get a more equal distribution of the weight of the votes in these funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160436	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160501	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 26 February 2015. First of all, Mr President, I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160524	Thank you. This debate is one that we in the Danish People's Party have looked forward to incredibly much. It is not every day that we are allowed to discuss one of the professions that takes place most in Denmark, also in terms of revenue and turnover, but that is nevertheless what is characteristic of the entire shipping industry, the whole way in which we as a Danish nation have a great, proud tradition of shipping and generating trade across borders. That is also why we think it would be quite appropriate for us today to have a question debate here in the Danish Parliament, where we have the opportunity to hear a little about what the Minister really has of news to add in relation to the big plan, which after all came, a wake-up plan for the Blue Denmark, which among other things. On the basis of the initiatives of the then Minister of Business, Ole Sohn, back in 2012. There have been working groups set up and there have been a number of legislative proposals which have been dealt with here in the Folketing, some with a greater majority than others, but that is the way it is. But in general there has been a focus on precisely the maritime industries, and of course there must also be when it is so big and important a basic element of our Danish business strategy. So I am, of course, looking forward to having the Minister's comments on the status of what is going on in this area, I had just said. If there is something new going on, you can say that it is not because I have to be witty, but I was, anyway, and that is simply because it is something that a lot of people here in Denmark care about, it is a lot of thousands of jobs, and it is also a turnover which, in relation to our balance of payments, is over 20%. That's 205 billion. kr., which the shipping companies and the industry earn, plus that we also have a lot of people in the associated professions who also provide theirs to the area. However, I think we should look forward to the debate and, of course, I am glad that it has succeeded. It was all the way back in mid-December that we asked for this question debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160723	Thank you. And that comment now comes from the Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224160724	Thank you for the question about the government's current plans for the development of Blue Denmark, and how far we have come by implementing the initiatives in the government's growth plan for Blue Denmark. There should be no doubt that it is at the top of the government's agenda to strengthen growth and create new permanent jobs in Denmark. Our offensive business and growth policy includes growth plans in areas where Danish companies have special strengths and potentials. In addition, we have launched a "Growth Plan" from 2013 and a "Growth Package" from 2014 with a number of cross-cutting initiatives for the benefit of the Danish business community, which also benefits the maritime area. Danish maritime companies account for barely 23 per cent. of Denmark's total exports. And overall, Blue Denmark creates work for 110,000 people. They are machine masters, shipping people in the office, people in the offshore sector, welders in the Danish yards and many more. Blue Denmark is therefore of great importance for Danish economy and employment. The shipping is the engine, which ensures activity in the Blue Denmark, both at shipping offices, at equipment manufacturers and at service providers. That is why it is very positive to see that our growth-enhancing initiatives, such as: The Blue Denmark growth plan is starting to work. The gross tonnage in the Danish International Register of Shipping is now at the highest level since its establishment in 1988. In the last year alone, the gross tonnage of DIS has grown by approx. 17% Denmark has now moved up among the world's 15 largest flag states. We have thus succeeded in creating attractive conditions for shipping in Denmark, and this is important if we are to maintain and expand our maritime strength position. I have just held a progress meeting on the growth plan with the industry's partners, all of whom expressed great satisfaction with the growth plan and the implementation of the initiatives. It is an ambitious growth plan that has succeeded because of the close and constructive cooperation between industries, authorities and research and training institutions. Let me highlight a few of the most central initiatives. We have strengthened the marketing of Blue Denmark internationally, especially with Danish Maritime Days, which was held for the first time in October 2014. We brought together professionals, politicians and opinion-formers to discuss the maritime potential of the future and the challenges facing shipping. With over 60 independent maritime events across Denmark and great international media coverage, we showed our maritime products and services to an international audience and marketed Denmark as an attractive place to run maritime business. There is now intensive work on preparing Danish Maritime Days in 2015. We have also focused on the green conversion of shipping to the benefit of the environment and the climate. This means new opportunities for the Danish equipment industry when developing green maritime solutions. As a kick-start, we have distributed nearly 21 million from the maritime conversion pool. kr. to the 9 demonstration projects in the field of green maritime technology. The foundation for the Blue Denmark is the competent employees, which is why the government also focuses on strengthening the education programmes for the Blue Denmark. More are now being trained in the sought-after maritime training programmes, including navigators and machine masters, and Copenhagen Business School has established a new and much-needed international shipping training programme. We have also looked at the skills needs of the offshore industry, and machine masters are now being trained again in Esbjerg, where the offshore industry, in particular, has a high demand for technical labour. In addition, the Minister of Taxation has just made a proposal to amend the Tonnage Tax Act. When the proposal is adopted, it will mean that a number of special ships in the offshore sector can benefit from the tonnage tax scheme. Such continuous adjustments to the framework conditions are necessary in an international industry. Shipowners can settle anywhere, and Danish ships sail all over the globe, just as Danish equipment manufacturers sell to customers in all parts of the world. The market is global. The Government has therefore also decided to send maritime growth advisors to China and Ghana, where they among other things. to help Danish maritime companies enter these markets so that we can increase exports. So we are doing well, but of course we should not rest on the laurels. International competition has never been harder, freight rates are low, there is overcapacity of ships on the market, and the falling price of oil, although it may be beneficial to ships and industry, also hits the offshore industry where otherwise there was growth. It is a far cool move if Det Blå Danmark is to maintain its strength position, increase competitiveness and create more growth and employment in Denmark. The government wants to build on the initiated growth work and the close dialogue with stakeholders so that we can continue to strengthen growth and employment in Denmark. Therefore, I plan to launch a new growth plan for the Blue Denmark with the involvement of stakeholders according to the growth team model. I would like to end by signing off on the broad cooperation we have in the Danish Parliament on the development of Blue Denmark. This, in conjunction with the collaboration with the industry, should also form the basis for ensuring the competitiveness of Blue Denmark and hence growth and employment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224161406	Thank you, Minister. Then the rapporteur for the questioners has the opportunity to reply to the answer, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224161427	I would like to sign up for the Minister's reply to the Danish Parliament in connection with this debate on the status and news of Blue Denmark, because, as far as I am concerned, I share what the Minister also said in his ministerial speech, namely that there is a tradition of broad cooperation in the Danish Parliament, regardless of who has the majority, to ensure that there is good growth and framework conditions in general for all professions, but also, of course, for the professions under Blue Denmark. Therefore, it is of course also very interesting to try to think back a little and see what it was that was put in the lake when Ole Sohn set up this think tank to look at what could be brought about by concrete proposals and initiatives that could create growth in these different maritime industries. At the time, it was said that what you would like to focus on in the government, among other things. were the Asian shipping companies. It was thought that it would be natural to try to put forward a strategy which took into account, for example, that China and India should consider in their growth strategies for their shipping companies, that they should have a European office to take a key position, and this could be very appropriate in Denmark. In fact, I can also see that Ole Sohn said at the time to the Stock Exchange that Denmark in his optics should be the European response to Singapore when it comes to shipping. I would like to say there that when I read what has been going on and what has been supported through political initiatives by authorities and politicians in Singapore, what has happened down there is that there has been an extremely large development that has gone extremely fast, among other things. Because of the political initiatives, but also, of course, because Singapore has a geographical location which has made it attractive to set up many of these jobs there. One of the same things is true if you look at Denmark, because we also have a geographical location that is attractive to a lot of people. The Minister also mentioned some of what I think is extremely important. It is, of course, the fact that we constantly focus on the fact that we in Denmark train enough staff to handle the tasks that exist. I believe that the Minister mentioned the master's training, the master's training and the master's training, and also the navigator's training, which is also there, although it may not be a professional bachelor's degree, but it is the others after all. These are also some of the places where we have noted that the government has set up several places of study. After all, I have chosen to be positive today, and you have to be. And I also think that there is reason to commend the government, and that is also one of the things that lies in the proposal for adoption by us that comes later, because there have been a number of very good initiatives. I certainly don't think we should forget them. I also think that if you look at some of what has come from the Minister for Trade and Development, Mogens Jensen, about increasing the ability to attract foreign maritime companies to place jobs in Denmark, it is of course very exciting, which is of course in line with what came earlier from the former Minister for Business, Mr. Ole Sohn. I have, of course, also noted what the Minister said about the Danish Maritime Days, which ran off last year and which was a great success. I am also, of course, pleased that it is proposed that it should be continued in order to market Denmark as what we need to be. But one thing, of course, is to market something like that, and another is to be able to deliver what you are looking for. This is where there are some elements that I think it might be interesting to focus on to ensure this further development of the development strategy to make the Danish maritime sector more robust and competitive also when we get outside the Danish and European latitudes. This is such a distortion of competition that we, among other things, have. has been able to note us from e.g. Danske Havne. If you look at Danske Harnes's statement for 2014, they clearly describe that there are some areas where there are major challenges, because the EU is distorting competition in port development and infrastructure programmes. It's such a place where I think it would be perfectly appropriate to try to go in and see if we can do any of it better. There have also been political issues raised as a separate tax regime for maritime fitters. This is something the industry has also asked for. There have been discussions about interest compensation schemes in connection with the many shipbuilding projects which, after all, are still going on in Denmark, but which should also continue to take place here, because we may have lost our large crown jewel, the shipyard on Lindø, but we still have many specialised shipyards in Denmark, which produce many smaller ships. Of course, I think it is important that we ensure them in the future. Then there is the entire offshore part, which has always been one of the basic elements and which we have seen has given a great many jobs. So there are many things to do and now, unfortunately, my speaking time is exhausted. However, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption. It is a proposal on which we have agreed: Proposal for adoption •Blue Denmark is one of Denmark's industrial strengths. Shipping alone accounts for 20 per cent. of the Danish balance of payments. The profession represents an invaluable part of Danish society. The Danish Parliament recognises the government's efforts, but in this context requires the government to tighten up initiatives to eliminate internal distortions of competition in the EU in relation to port development and infrastructure programmes. The Danish Parliament is proposing that the Government prepare an analysis of the consequences by introducing a separate tax regime for maritime fitters and analysing the possibilities of introducing an interest compensation scheme for shipbuilding. The government is encouraged to prepare an analysis of the status of the growth potential of offshore jobs in Denmark. Finally, it calls on the Government to present a competitive model of how drilling rigs and associated ships can be subject to tonnage tax and to ensure maritime employment in the offshore sector, possibly by fiscal equalisation of all maritime activities, including applying DIS taxation to seafarers on these ships. • V 1 26). With those words, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162108	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments, but I will only repeat that the read-out proposal for adoption will be put to the vote on Thursday. Mrs Ida Auken for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162122	The proposals listed by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party cost 140 million. kr. Where will the Danish People's Party find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162130-2	I would like to sign for Mrs Ida Auken's great capacity to be able to count in advance. Of course, I find that incredibly exciting. But I think perhaps the rapporteur should have a copy of what was read before to read what the conclusion is, because it is not, of course, that we are giving funding for the 140 million. kr. What we want is, in fact, an analysis of what it will also create from the challenges of providing the financial resources, but certainly also what it will have from other secondary consequences. There are also some positive things that should not be forgotten, and it is among other things that it can also generate jobs in the private sector in Denmark. So the thing about just standing up and saying that it costs 140 million. I do not recognise as a premise from the outset. I think it is important that we get this analysis going and then, of course, discuss how the money is to be found. I have noted that the government can find money for a lot of things here in the Folketing, so there can also be 140 million. kr., if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162230	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162231	After all, there is no proposal in what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has listed which we have not looked at. That is why I can say that the proposal in question will cost 140 million. kr. to implement. So I think that the Danish People's Party with their prehistory of making a completely unfunded proposal, i.e. tax cuts for 46 billion. kr., well owes it to the Danes to just once find the money. Is this, for example? More important for the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party than tax cuts at the bottom?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162258	In other words, we can see that the government we have now has increased the cost of refugees from 3 billion to 9 billion. kr. over the past few years, so you can ask: what is 140 million? kr.? Yeah, that's a lot of money, if you ask Mr. Knox. and Mrs Denmark at home at the coffee cups, but if you look at the state's finances, you can easily move 140 million. kr., if you choose to give targeted priority to the initiatives that benefit and benefit growth here in Denmark. So I do not buy the premise with tulliards and everything else that comes from the members of the government. It's a hoax. That's the way it is. And you have to deal with that. This is not a proposal that the money should be provided, this is a proposal that we should have examined what we can do and what it might cost and what it will have as a result.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162342	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162345	The jobs are a major part of the discussion about Blue Denmark, and I would like to know what the Danish People's Party really thinks about the social dumping that is taking place under the DIS Act. I am thinking here of the huge employment of cheap labour from Asia and Eastern Europe, which is of course on very many Danish ships under the DIS flag and which, I believe, outperforms Danish seafarers, so that it is one third of the seamen on the ships under the DIS register today, who are Danish seamen. What are you gonna do here? Is that acceptable? That is, of course, said with reference to the fact that the Danish People's Party usually takes a huge interest in the fight against social dumping and immigration of Eastern European labour, and I shall give you, I shall.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162441-2	Yes, it is one of the major challenges that is that of course we can see that many of the jobs that are on the Danish merchant ships and in the fleet in general are occupied with foreign personnel. They are also people who are not under Danish agreement. So there are a lot of challenges in it and I do not have a clear solution for how to change it. I would almost say that if all of a sudden in 2015 I could come up with a fantastic solution for that, I would be the man of the day. I would almost venture to say so. But it's not that easy, sir. Henning Hylllested, too. It is not so easy to change the working conditions. We should not forget that the Danish merchant fleet does not operate in Denmark. It is quite a few of the ships that come to Denmark. They operate everywhere else, and they are in a strong international competition and act in the market that is now. So that is not something you can change over a morning or afternoon here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162537	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162540	I'd like to say to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, that this is not a new problem. It has been in existence since the DIS Act was adopted in 1988, it has been under constant debate, and we have been criticized almost every two years by the ILO, in other words the UN Labour Organisation, for breaking fundamental conventions on fundamental labour rights. So there's really been time to think about it. I should then like to give an idea which the DF's rapporteur might be able to take up: how about establishing a nationality requirement? In fact, it was for masters until 2011, when if it was not removed, then after all it moderated. What about establishing a nationality requirement? It could be in return for pampering the shipping industry quite violently at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162625	I don't know if you're spoiling the shipping industry at home. We have many Danish shipping companies that are struggling incredibly hard with low tonnage revenue at the moment. They are under massive international pressure. As the Minister also said, in some places there is a definite surplus in the fleet and they have nothing to sail with. And then I actually think it's the typical song we get from the Enhedslisten, namely that we can just take from the shipowners. It's not that easy. If it was that easy, maybe some people had done it before, but it isn't, because you have to remember that these companies are helping to generate money for the Danish state. They are among other things. help generate that there is money for many of the social expenditures we have in Denmark and all sorts of other expenditures that lie in Denmark. We can't change that this way over an afternoon.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162708	Sir. Thomas Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162711	I always think it is good to have a good debate in this Chamber. When it comes to Blue Denmark, it amazes me that now that we have had a period of government of almost 4 years, when there has been a good and broad cooperation on Blue Denmark, right up to the end of a parliamentary term, some are about to be profiling themselves in connection with some measures that we have already discussed well and thoroughly during the negotiations. As Mrs Ida Auken has said here, what is in this proposal for adoption will cost some 140 million. kr. I would just like to know briefly and clearly from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby: Where in public budgets the 140 million. kr. taken? For example, is it... The old-age check, which suddenly has to be cut to 860 million. kr., or where is it that the Danish People's Party wants to save?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162757	Now I would like to make it clear once again that if you, as a politician, take the trouble to read the proposal which I know the rapporteur has received from me, I have sent it to him myself, you can see that it is not the case that we are saying that all these proposals should become reality from day one. It could be that some of them were given higher priority than others in connection with the investigation and analysis work to be done to see where we get the most for the money, where we get the most growth, how best to restore the competitiveness of our Danish shipping industry. The rapporteur says that we have had the debate before, and now it comes back to the elections. Well, we have also had the debate on the housing job scheme many times in the Folketing, and why was it that we got the housing job scheme continued? It was because we took the debate for the seventh or eighth time here in the Folketing. So there is nothing new about that, and so it must be. In other words, the opposition is allowed to ask some questions and make some proposals, and of course the government and ministers can choose either to shoot them down or to clap their hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162902	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162904	What I am trying to address is that this is a well-known proposal on drilling rigs, drilling ships and maritime fitters. This is something we have been around and which we know costs money, and we also know that money must be found somewhere if it is to be implemented. That is why my brief and clear question is: When the Danish People's Party wants this to happen once, if you have more influence than you do today, where is it that needs to be cut down? For example, is it... The elderly cheque, which is to be cut from one billion kroner allocated by the government, to 860 million. kr., or where is it that e.g. the elderly have to stand for public sector deficits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224162941	I wish the rapporteur would ask the same questions when discussing the increase in expenditure on refugees and immigrants under the Financial Act. In 3 years, they have risen from such a level. 3 billion kr. to well over 9 billion. kr. Nobody has discussed where the 6 billion. kr. Come from. They've come as sent from heaven, you could almost say. After all, it is not that easy to provide 6 billion. kr. Let's stick to the clue that this proposal costs 140 million. kr., but what is being proposed is that it is analysed and fleshed out and that it is described what we will get from the derived effects of the various individual proposals. This does not mean that all these proposals will be adopted from day one; it simply means that we start giving priority to them and that we get them clarified. So I would like to say that, as a business rapporteur, I have certainly not been involved in any negotiations on, for example, special tax arrangements for maritime fitters. It's just to take one of the examples. I am aware that this has not been discussed here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163036	Sir. Steen Gade for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163039	Thank you. Now it sounds as if the proposal that was read out is only about analysis, and I must admit that there are a few analyses. But if I now have the correct version, it is in fact black and white to put all maritime activities on an equal footing and to allow DIS taxation to apply to seafarers on these ships, that is to say to extend DIS taxation and the DIS system; it does not stand as an analysis. Is this something I have misunderstood, or is it true that there is in fact a very specific proposal which also costs money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163119	Yes, it must be seen in connection with the fact that in that part of the proposal for adoption there is the last stick, if you are to put it this way at the beginning, that we are calling on the government to present a competitive model for these initiatives, and that is what we are just asking in all silence for no more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163140	Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163142	I'm glad to hear the answer. That is quite honest, but it also means that the rapporteur did not tell the whole truth of the other answers where he just said: well, it is only analysis and analysis. No, there is certainly a place where you are quite specific, and that is what other questioners have pointed out, which costs money, and we must then note that the authors of the motion for a resolution, and perhaps I am not so surprised at where the money should come from, but I think it might be possible to say that the authors of the motion have lured a number of other parties into something they tend to distance themselves from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163220	I didn't lure anyone, they came voluntarily, but that's the way it is. But I would like to say that if Mr. Steen Gade then reads the proposal for adoption I also know that Mr. Steen Gade has received a copy of the Social Democrats' rapporteur by e-mail, so I know that the rapporteur has it. 2: The Danish Parliament recognises the government's efforts, but in this context requires the government to step up initiatives to eliminate internal distortions of competition in the EU in relation to port development and infrastructure programmes. I admit that imposing something is more than recommending something or putting something in perspective. I fully acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163305	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163322	Thank you. As the usual rapporteur of the Left, Preben Bang Henriksen, has no opportunity to be present, I have promised to make his speech. Denmark is depending on how to calculate, which method is used to use the world's fifth or sixth largest maritime nation. Maritime transport is Denmark's largest export business, and the maritime industry has around 50,000 jobs, which are largely based on exports. It's not a coincidence. This is due, among other things, to: good, lasting framework conditions laid down by an almost unanimous Parliament. One of the most important initiatives in the maritime sector was the introduction of the DIS scheme, net taxation, just over 25 years ago. The effect of this can be seen clearly if, for example, Sweden is considered, where the absence of such a scheme has meant a virtually non-existent merchant fleet. Only now will the first small steps be taken towards a similar arrangement in the brotherland, which will of course affect competition with Denmark over time. We in the Left are happy to take part in an analysis of the possible extension of the DIS scheme, and we are neither deaf nor blind to the organizations' desire to include fitters in such a scheme, but we must of course first have an analysis so that we know what we are dealing with. But the Treasury must vote, and the extension of the DIS system therefore requires a thorough analysis to assess the advantages and disadvantages. We are happy to take part in this. Similarly, the analysis may include financing and interest rate protection, for example, according to the schemes in force in Norway and Sweden. All saw our maritime companies' competitiveness match those of foreign competitors. The consensus that has characterized Denmark as a maritime nation and thus worked around Blue Denmark must be maintained as far as possible. The Left therefore also subscribes to the government's implementation of large parts of the growth plan. In some areas, however, we lack the government's support for the obvious wishes of the companies behind Blue Denmark. It is important to have a change in the rules of the Foreigners' Order, after which sailing to the shipyard is treated as entering port and thus counting in the 25 calls that a Danish ship with a foreign crew may enter a Danish port annually without the requirement of Danish work permit for the foreign crew. The management of the provision means an imminent risk of ships seeking foreign shipyards, which is detrimental to Danish jobs. The Left is aware of the answer given by the Minister for Employment to Question No. S 496 and we understand that a solution is being worked on, but it seems strange and harmful to employment in the Danish yards that a solution by the government is considered so complex. Blue Denmark deserves an immediate solution to the problem. In addition to the 25 calls I reviewed above, the business conditions of the ports are of major importance. This means that the development of Danish ports does not introduce such stringent requirements for noise, for example, that maritime production companies with, for example, testing and testing are excluded. The safeguarding of sulphur requirements for ships sailing in the Baltic Sea is also important. Danish ships should not be alone in making the heavy investments. We call on the government to ensure that control is carried out everywhere and that it is effectively implemented. Moreover, with these comments, we largely acknowledge the government's provisional implementation of the growth plan. The growth plan contains a number of initiatives, but more generally it is important that the framework conditions presented to the Danish maritime companies are competitive with the foreign conditions. Unfortunately, this is far from being the case in all cases today. With these comments, the Left can naturally support the motion for a resolution tabled on behalf of the Left, the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163738	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163741	I'll abide by the unwritten rule of not running sir. Erling Bonnesen into something he might find difficult to answer. I am, of course, just annoyed that it is not the normal rapporteur of the Left, because I would have asked about the passage in the proposal for adoption, but perhaps the rapporteurs of the authors of the motion, who have not yet been on the floor, could comment on what is meant by eliminating internal distortions of competition in the European Union in relation to port development. As an old port worker, I cannot help wondering whether this is a resumption of the port packages which ended up in Parliament voting down in two rounds. I do not expect an answer, but of course it is just to get it mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163828	I'm grateful for that quick examination I just had. In the ten minutes I had to be briefed on this, I haven't been able to understand that very specific detail. So, as the questioner himself said, I will stick to the fact that it might be that there were others who had that detail more in their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163844	Sir. Thomas Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163846	Thank you. I shall also refrain from asking questions about the specific proposal in addition to the purely principle which I expect is discussed in the Left Group every time a proposal such as this is discussed. Here you have a proposal that costs money, and then you have to ask yourself where the money is to come from. So I would like to ask the rapporteur today: where will the Left find the 140 million? kr., which this proposal will cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163912-2	I am glad, then, that the Socialist questioner here too is beginning to say that the money must vote. And as far as I remember now I have to be absolutely sure I also read it out, namely that the money in the Treasury should vote and so on. So it is quite clear that in the first place it is an analysis, so we know what we are dealing with. And then we can go in and prioritize. Then we decide what and at what rate to introduce it, of course when the money is delivered to it. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163939	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224163940	Now that I am looking at the text of the adoption, I can see that this is not just an analysis. It says that a competitive model must be presented. That means that if you have to present such a model, it is also something that costs something. And with the figures I have from previous negotiations, it runs into these 140 million. kr. So I would like to hear: has the Left Group actually discussed where the money is going to come from to finance this 140 million? kr., or is it just some unfunded suggestions you're making here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164011	Well, in the Left, we don't operate with unfunded random proposals that just come flying in like that right in the middle of a group meeting. No, and therefore I also said several times in my rapporteur's speech and I could understand that it was also the case in the presentation of the case by the Danish People's Party that it is initially some analyses. I just want to make it clear that we need to get the analyses in place. It is clear, of course, that words can be interpreted in many ways, and if it is that the questioner interprets what the questioner does, then that is the interpretation of the questioner. However, in order to make a concrete decision, we must of course have an analysis and a decision-making basis in place. Well, it's not that hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164044	Mrs Ida Auken for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164047	I am glad that the rapporteur is saying that the Treasury should vote. It is also very important for the government, and that is why I am curious about where the 140 million. kr., which this proposal costs, must be found at home. Because I understand from the rapporteur of the Left that we do not throw around with unfunded proposals, and with such an expense it must have been discussed and decided by the leadership of the Left where that money is to be found. It is surely the least one can expect that the rapporteur of the Left will be able to respond to in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164113	I could repeat my previous answer, and I can then refer to that, but I can also add that I believe that we all agree that the maritime industry must also be developed in this great, strong competition, and then it is the government that is the government. And that is fair enough when you ask to try to get a competitive model on the table, which you can try to start with among other things. In the case of some of these analyses, so that we can have an adequate basis for decision-making. Then I have indicated several times that, of course, the box has to vote, and it will.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164139	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164141	I could only understand from the rapporteur that the Left does not throw around with unfunded proposals, and since this is a proposal from the Left, I would like to know where the funding is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164152	We do not throw around with unfunded proposals. We are asking for this work of analysis, and there is the government that is government, and we are in opposition, and then we are asking what the government can deliver on this. That is what a question debate is about, and once we have the government's answer, we can get on with our work. I have also stressed several times that the box must of course vote first, analyses first, decision-making basis, and then we prioritise and decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164216	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164227	Thank you, sir. President. Blue Denmark is undoubtedly one of Denmark's industrial strengths. Blue Denmark is a workplace for 80,000 people and with an indirect employment of approx. 35,000 in other industries it is indisputable that the maritime cluster has a major impact on growth in Denmark. This is also the reason why the government set up a growth team for Blue Denmark at the time. With the growth team, people with special knowledge and experience from the Blue Denmark were asked to make concrete recommendations on how we can strengthen the growth conditions for the industry. The goal was, and is, quite simply, that we should continue to be among the world's leading maritime nations. As we know, the recommendations of the growth team were followed up with a growth plan in December 2012. The growth plan came with 38 concrete initiatives divided into marketing, attractive business operations, strengthening strength positions, strengthened skills and training, green solutions and quality shipping. In close cooperation with the industry, the 38 initiatives are now being translated into reality. Against this background, I think it is perfectly justified to say that, from the political point of view, in cooperation with the industry, we have launched extensive initiatives for Blue Denmark. It has to be said that the work on translating the objectives of the growth plan into reality runs entirely according to plan. Twenty-six of the initiatives have been implemented, other 11 initiatives are already on schedule, and only one initiative on quality standards for equipment and service manufacturers has proved impossible to implement simply because the industry did not want to. So, what's the future? As a permanent method of working in the government's industrial policy, we are never finished, but always on the way, and along the way we listen and engage with everyday experts from the individual professions. The government continues the marketing of Det Blå Danmark and the work to attract maritime companies to the cluster. A key element of the effort is Danish Maritime Days, which was first held in week 41 here in 2014. They will also be held in week 41 here for the next two years. In conclusion, it is my clear impression that the industry has welcomed the initiatives. There has all the way been a good support from the Danish Shipowners' Association, from Danske Maritime and from Dansk Metal. In other words, it is the opinion of the Social Democrats that we have long been deeply concerned about improving the conditions of Blue Denmark and that we have come very, very far with the many initiatives that we have taken in close dialogue with the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164509	Thank you. There are brief comments, first from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164514	Thank you, sir. President. I would actually like to sign the rapporteur's speech. Of course, I think it's good to hear what the Socialists think about this, too, beyond what the Minister thinks. It's always interesting. Now, the rapporteur himself mentions this: it is important that we do what we can to strengthen these types of industries. I think that sometimes we should try to start with some of what is real, to illustrate the seriousness of it, and the Danish Nature Agency, for example, has had to order two new ships, such as support ships, and they were then won in a bid by a British shipyard because they were cheapest in price. And then it ended up being found out when they were about to build them that they didn't have the equipment to build these ships anyway. Then the offer had to go down, and I really do not know what it will end up with afterwards. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur about the other elements when you think about tendering, for example when the state has to buy ferries. After all, we have a number of shipyards in Denmark that are building these specialized ships. How much does the rapporteur think we should think of other parts of these state tenders than just the price? I am thinking of fuel consumption, pollution, durability, reliability, safety and comfort for the crew etc., that is to say some of the things that you also have to think about when you choose to buy such an expensive thing as a new ship for the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. Wouldn't it be obvious to look at ensuring that these tender items were tightened up?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164642	Now the question is not about procurement rules. We're down in those more concrete things. But I would like to say in general terms that this government has put its feet in order for Denmark to once again be a production country where we can maintain the production jobs we have, but also so that people both outside Denmark and in Denmark can see the positive effect of setting up new production jobs in Denmark. We have done so by adopting, in broad cooperation here in the Danish Parliament, measures to ensure a framework for this. We will generally go that way to ensure that we can keep some jobs at home in Denmark, and if there are some specific challenges in connection with this tender rounds, let's have a debate about it. I'm open to that so that we can see if there is something we haven't come to yet, but that we can correct, so that we also stand strong in that area in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164740	Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164742	Now the Socialist rapporteur says it has nothing to do with the question. I would now like to point out that it does, because we have a number of shipyards in Denmark, among others. on Ærø, which specialises in producing special types of smaller ships. They may be ferries, or they may be fishing vessels or all sorts of others. In other words, if we are to have a chance to win the bids, there must also be something to do for these yards, because if they do not win some of the bids, they will close. It almost goes without saying. And if the yards close, Denmark is simply drained of know-how and specialised knowledge about the technical things that are going on in connection with the construction of these special ships. That is why it is important, and it is also important for the entire maritime industry, that we keep these shipyards in Denmark. So that's why it has something to do with tendering. Because if you only compete at price as in this case, when it was about a state authority, the Nature Agency, we end up starving our own. I know that we must not discriminate, but we are allowed to make some demands in connection with invitations to tender, where you also look at points other than the price, and that is just the coupling I would like to ask about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164902	Now I think we should be careful that we do not talk away from each other when it comes to securing Blue Denmark and ensuring jobs and growth within the profession. In concrete terms, this question is about the status of the Blue Denmark growth plan and of course also about some forward-looking initiatives. And there I am sure that together with the Danish People's Party and other parties here in the Danish Parliament we can come up with some good initiatives in the future. We enter into dialogue with the industry and listen to the challenges they face in international competition, and on that basis I think that we in the Danish Parliament should make some broad solutions. Today, I can see from this question debate that there are some parties that would like to see there being a little more edge and difference between the parties, but I think that we are basically very much in agreement. Then I would also like to stress that I have seen before I think it was on the front page of the Stock Exchange that the Minister for Business and Growth has said very positively that we must of course also have some good yards in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224164957	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165001	I'm gonna have to ask sir. Thomas Jensen as the good social democrat, he is, of course, how he feels about Denmark, virtually ever since the DIS Act was passed, year after year or about every two years being heavily criticised for the violation of conventions which were to guarantee fundamental labour rights, including those of seafarers. I would like to refer to this as a disgrace to the DIS Act, which is why I would like to hear how Mr. Thomas Jensen, as the representative of the Socialist Group, is concerned that we are being accused, time and time again, of violations of the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165041	I am glad that we can see that there is growth and development in Det Blå Danmark, which means that the initiatives we are taking in educating young Danes to get out and get a good and lasting job in Det Blå Danmark work. According to the Danish Maritime Authority, between 7,000 and 8,000 Danish seafarers are currently employed within the merchant fleet. I think that is quite positive. And we must continue to create framework conditions so that we can ensure that. In view of the fact that there are also some foreigners employed, I feel that if Danish employees can work with those who come from outside and do well in the workplace, I am quite positive about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165128	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165129	I guess it's Mr. Knox. Thomas Jensen is aware that the foreigners employed are employed for wages well below the Danish salary level, despite seafarer tax and in spite of the net tax regime and that time and again it is carried out not only by the ILO but also by the Danish trade unions that this is a problem. Only when we dealt with the increase in tonnage tax that we had last week did many of the professional organizations point out that they would actually like the DIS scheme to be extended to these ships, to which the tonnage tax scheme also has to be extended, but on the clear condition that a solution to the problem referred to in Article 10 (2) is found. 2 and 3 of the DIS Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165216	I think that we have been constantly in touch with the DIS Act and have looked at how we could adapt it to the challenges facing the industry. As to what the Danish trade union movement has constantly said about the measures taken by the government, I am aware that at the time, when we came up with a growth plan for Blue Denmark, Dansk Metal said that the government strengthened the job creation in the maritime sector with the new initiative. And what has been the main aim of this government has been to create a lot of good jobs for Danish employees, both on land and on water.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165250	Thank you. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165257	For the Radical Left and for the government, creating jobs in Denmark is a major issue. We do this by pursuing an active business policy, and an active business policy is, of course, to ensure a good framework for all companies in Denmark, and that is to focus on some of the areas that are our greatest strengths. One of Denmark's greatest strengths is the maritime sector, it is Blue Denmark. There are over 110,000 employees whose work is related to that sector. That is why we have had it as a main priority, as we had to choose areas for growth plans. The way we made the growth plans was then just taking the whole sector from the training part to the trade union movement to the of course all the companies, the shipowners, etc. and talk to them about what they thought was important. Against this background, we came up with a growth plan, and the growth plan, as the Social Democrat rapporteur rightly pointed out, has 38 different approaches. If we take stock of the 38 measures here today, we can actually say that what the industry has wanted goes quite well. Twenty-six out of the 38 measures have been implemented, 11 of them are on schedule, and then there is one, as the Social Democratic rapporteur also described, which has been cancelled because the industry itself thought it was the right thing to do. In addition, Denmark has got a lot of focus in relation to our large maritime sector by keeping Danish Maritime Days in October, and we hold it again this year and next year. So this is really an area that the government takes very seriously. So far we have also had a very good collaboration on the Blue Denmark. We have had broad political support, we have not made this some battlefield, but have worked together instead. That is why, of course, it is also a pity that today we are going to have a political debate on this, as if there is not a relatively large political consensus. I am sorry, then, that it is possible to put forward proposals for 140 million in this Parliament. kr. without providing the funding. So, it doesn't look like the Left or it does make it so gradually anyway to make one proposal after another that has not been financed, here in the Parliamentary Chamber. And I would like to ask the Danish People's Party: Where is the money? I've asked about it twice now. How will you finance all the good intentions that lie if you actually want to be a responsible party? That is what we, as a government, are taking on us, that is what we take responsibility for, that is to say, that we give priority to the right things. You can always find more to do, but you must always prioritize whether it is the right thing to do. I would therefore like to say that we cannot support the proposal for adoption that has been put forward, which is the driving force behind expenditure, and no money has been found for it. I wanted to maintain the good atmosphere in relation to Blue Denmark, so it is of course a pity that we cannot stand together again today about the text presented by the Left and the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165608	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165610	These were good comments to the bourgeois opposition, which I also think is on a stupid errand here. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it is a great deal of work on the rapporteur's part to create these good framework conditions. It really is one of the buzzwords that we have throughout today's debate. But it is also about good conditions for blue Denmark. Does this also apply to the Danish seamen? Should they also have good framework conditions? It is a fact that today, to a large extent, they are, especially when talking about cover crews, being outperformed by very, very low-paid workers from outside. And that is precisely because the Danish trade unions are not allowed to represent the foreign seafarers and seafarers, nor are they allowed to negotiate collectively for them. So these are basic rights that we consider to be given here at home, but which do not apply to the part of blue Denmark that sails.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165714	Well, of course, sir. Henning Hyllested points to one of the greatest difficulties of having such a global profession as shipping. When you have a profession that is so much global and competitive, you have to keep thinking about it. I think that the Danish seamen are well aware that this is a highly competitive profession and that this needs to be done pragmatically. That is why I welcome the fact that Metal Maritime is going around the world when negotiating agreements and is trying to resolve things pragmatically. I think this is important when we are dealing with such a competitive and global industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165757	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165759	I very much agree with that. I think Metal Maritime and also the 3F Maritime Department are making a good effort, etc. But after all, it is a fact that the same professional organizations regard it as a disgrace and are well and thoroughly dissatisfied with the existence of this section 10 paragraph. 2 and 3 of the DIS Act. It is surely a fact that this is the case, and what they are doing is almost fire-fighting. Yeah, they're coming around the world, and it's a good thing they're doing it. But it is an attempt to rectify something that is really irreparable and where what was needed was to remove the relevant paragraphs of the DIS Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165843	The most important fire extinguishing must be to ensure that people do not lose their jobs. And if you did not take reality seriously, namely that this is a highly competitive profession, then you would not make the necessary fire-fighting. That's why you have to find a pragmatic model and get as close as possible, and that's why Metal Maritime comes around the world. So yes, sir. Henning Hyllested points to one of the major challenges facing the Danish model and the regulated Danish labour market as globalised as shipping is. However, I believe that we have found a balance here and I am glad that Metal Maritime is joining the world and trying to find pragmatic solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165923	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224165925	Thank you. I would like to sign up for the rapporteur's speech, but the rapporteur says that we must talk nicely to each other and that there has been consensus on Blue Denmark and that growth strategy in general. So far, that is still the case. So I do not really understand why the rapporteur is so unhappy that the Danish People's Party has chosen to have a debate in the Danish Parliament about what status is actually, what has happened with the implementation of government initiatives and what the opposition might think of other growth-creating initiatives. Why is it that the Radicals are so upset about it? It's like you just polish the gloria. You can almost see it: we are the good guys, and we are the good guys, and the rest of you have broken the good mood. I even think Mrs Ida Auken said that we had made it a battlefield. I haven't made it a battlefield, I'd like to say. It may be that the rapporteur sees it as a battlefield, but as rapporteur I have just allowed myself to say that I think it is important that we also take those things down here and treat them openly, honestly and honestly, and that we also dare to ask the questions that are, about some of the things that have not become reality in Denmark, some of the things that the industry, the maritime sector, is still asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170041	We would very much like to have a debate on this, but it also presupposes that we do not make it look like we can create everything that the government does not want to do. The government has actually taken over 38 steps, and we have taken them in the order that the industry has considered important. Then I say: yes, we all want to do more, but we give priority to the money. Then I just point to a clear difference between the Danish People's Party and the Left. We have asked them several times today: where is the money for the proposal being put forward? You won't be able to do that, and that's what I call a battlefield, that's what I think destroys the good atmosphere, so that you can just sing about things from the Danish People's Party, it would be nice to do if you just had 140 million. kr. The money just has to fit on the other end if you ask Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170125	Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170128	I would still wonder why a further 6 billion more can be found in the Danish Parliament in the Finance Act without further discussion. kr. over 3 years for the integration of asylum seekers. But this simply cannot be discussed. There is absolutely no question of this being discussed, there is no 140 million. kr. So I think the rapporteur should try honestly to conclude: is that what we are asking for with what we have proposed for adoption? Is it 140 million? kr.? No, it is an analysis of some of the various elements, which together would seem to cost 140 million. kr., if they were all adopted at the same time. It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170208	Now the Danish People's Party has the problem of finding 46 billion. kr., before they reach the 140 million. kr. You cannot spend the same refugee money time and again, even though the Danish People's Party believes that you can pay everything by saying that we do not want refugees, the most vulnerable people in the world, to Denmark. I simply do not think that it is a serious political debate that we will continue to finance all kinds of proposals and tell people that they can have one and the other and the third, and then it is this 140 million. kr. you can't find. No, the Danish People's Party is missing 46 billion. kr., and now they're missing 140 million. kr., and that's what I don't think is a serious debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170245	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170252	Thank you. In fact, I would also like to thank you for the debate in the sense that it focuses on an important profession. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for focusing on an initiative area, which has not actually been a single area of initiative until this government came into being. I think that is something for those who are putting forward a proposal for adoption here: that we have not actually seen such an overall proposal to promote Blue Denmark, that is, a business cluster which includes shipping, but which also includes equipment suppliers which include offshore and which involve all of this in a global industrial policy context. This is what has really happened in the last three years, and it is true, as has been said, that Ole Sohn was very active in setting up this panel. I don't think it's just because he was out sailing when he was young, but it may have helped. Then I would like to say about the text of the question itself that I think it is quite wrong that it has only come to some tax issues, and this is, of course, due to a proposal for adoption made by the bourgeois opposition. What I find interesting to have discussed here is whether we can get even more out of those partnerships that have been set up. Is there even more to be done in the direction of developing shipping, developing education? I have a feeling and I would also like to ask the Minister that it is quite important that we follow up on some of these things very clearly. I have seen statements, even today, that there is indeed a need for many more training places in this area. And I would like to advocate that this is something we are looking at. Instead of focusing on something, by looking at something with taxes that I think can be at most a small part of the coin, I think we should look at the profession. One of the great interesting things is to get offshore development to match the offshore wind farm development. We know there's a fall in oil. It will be very important that the offshore industry really develops on offshore winds, what it is already, but throughout the North Sea area, so that it not only stays on the Danish base, but actually can also operate in general. Then there is an important theme in the issue of Blue Denmark, which is how we make Blue Denmark green. And this is where, of course, there are huge challenges. Pollution, sulphur, NO x 2 In fact, one of the major problems of air pollution in this city we are in is actually very much due to the ships passing by. So it is a great challenge, but it is also really exciting that we have a profession in Denmark that is actually willing to go into it; that it is Danish tankers which are the most economical Danish-owned tankers that sail most economically between the Far East and the USA and the Far East and Europe. When I attended the last climate summit in Lima, Denmark also hosted a workshop where we were just out with the industry and tell the story to the rest of the world: Yes, we can sail with ships that are much more energy-efficient and which pollute much less and which take much more account of the environment. When I say that, it is not only for the sake of the environment; it is also because it is here that the cluster must be developed with jobs, equipment, knowledge, the sale of expertise. Here I would like to say that I have noticed that the statements stress that we need global rules. I kind of agree with that. However, we must bear in mind that we should not just have uniform rules by going down to the lowest level. That is why a country like Denmark must fight hard to obtain strong international rules, and I would also like to say that to the Minister. I assume that when emphasis is placed on this part, it is first and foremost important that we in the IMO and elsewhere have sensible and much stricter rules on the environment. We do not support the proposal for adoption, basically because the balance is completely unbalanced. It's all about tax breaks. I think it is a derailment of how we promote a profession, to focus only on that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170831	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224170855	It's a wide-ranging size we're dealing with when we talk about Blue Denmark. The core of this is, of course, primarily the sailing industry, you can say, but then there are all the accompanying companies, first and foremost on land, but not only, which in fact also help to keep Denmark sailing. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the publicly managed ports which provide the necessary infrastructure and services to the many companies and shipping companies. After all, an impressive list of initiatives has been presented that the government has taken as a result of the growth package for Blue Denmark from 2012 • I think these are 38 points and you are in full swing. There are a great many good initiatives between them, and I would also like to point out that some of them have certainly taken part in Enhedslisten: 25 million were set aside. kr. to green maritime solutions, i.e. green transition in the maritime industry, back to the 2013 Finance Act. It is not a large amount, but a start, and it could of course also be interesting to hear how far they have reached, because there was some doubt about that then. There is an extension of the training effort, which is also currently under way. There have also been small improvements along the way in the maintenance made available to foreign sailors on Danish ships affected by piracy and hostage-taking, and we have also seen and contributed to improvements. It is just to mention some points which, of course, go in many directions. But there are certainly also initiatives that we do not like, and which have been made within the so-called Blue Denmark: The whole marketing of pilotage; the transformation of DanPilot into a SOV; and later offering of the pass through; the extension of the tonnage tax, which we are actually dealing with at the moment and which was for the first time last week, to special ships that were first and foremost in offshore. So there are also things we don't like. And then there is something missing, and I suppose some of the questions I have asked have also highlighted this. It was not, of course, a very significant part of the Blue Denmark growth plan at the time, nor did the Minister mention it in his speech, and we know that the Danish Shipowners' Association is stubbornly refusing to participate in it, while the professional organisations are terribly keen to put it right. And what we are missing is this action against the disgrace that we simply believe it is in the DIS Act, which is called § 10 paragraph. 2 and 3, which means that professional organisations are not allowed to organise and contract the many foreign seafarers in Danish DIS ships, and which means that Denmark is acting in violation of ILO conventions no. 87 and 98 on fundamental workers' rights, which concern the right to organisation and the right to collective bargaining and collective agreements. We think it's a disgrace. Again and again, the ILO has pointed this out, and it is no longer than a year ago that the ILO urged the government to resolve the problem in a very harsh manner, most recently by reporting to the ILO in December 2014, so a few months ago. And you have to ask what happened in that case. I can't believe this violation of the convention is allowed to continue. And what are we going to report back to the ILO? After all, we know that the shipping companies and the shipowners' association are resisting this and are threatening flagging out no doubt about it. However, given the massive state aid, tonnage tax, seafarer tax, the DIS Act in general, one must call it a profession on the aid, at least the sailing part of it, one might well demand that shipping companies contribute to Denmark's compliance with international conventions. A purpose of the DIS Act has always been that of securing Danish jobs on ships. But Danish sailors now make up only about a third of the crew of the ships under DIS, and we find this unsatisfactory and actually contrary to the argument that has been put forward all along from DIS. In our view, the shipping industry is Denmark's most spoiled profession without comparison. One might well spoil some compensatory measures in the form of Danish jobs for decent wages and in accordance with the ILO conventions in the field, and therefore we will also make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Blue Denmark is one of Denmark's industrial strengths. The Danish Parliament supports the Government's efforts to ensure that growth and employment opportunities in Denmark are fully exploited. The Danish Parliament notes that the aim is to help ensure internationally competitive framework conditions for Danish shipping, create good opportunities for the development of green maritime solutions and strengthen maritime education. As part of these efforts, the Danish Parliament calls on the Government to respond as soon as possible to the UN/ILO's long-standing criticism of section 10 of the DIS Act, in particular paragraph 10 thereof. 2 and 3 and bring it into line with the ILO Conventions on Fundamental Workers' Rights (No. 87 and 98) V 27).
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171416	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. As I said, the read-out proposal for adoption will be put to the vote on Thursday. Then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171427	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. I would like to start by signing up for the Minister's statement. It is the good thing about these debates that we can call the Minister down here to explain how things are going in a particular area. However, I would like to agree with the government that sometimes we may also have these debates for the sake of the debate. But that's the way it is. I don't think that's gonna change if the government changes color. I would also like to say that we look forward to a growth plan No. 2 for Blue Denmark, as the Minister for Business and Industry announced here from the platform. We look forward to that, and we will enter constructively into the negotiations on it. On the whole, our ambition in the Liberal Alliance is that the framework conditions for Blue Denmark are equal to, and preferably better than, the countries with which we compete, including major maritime nations such as Singapore and Hong Kong. Then I would just like to say that we in the Liberal Alliance cannot be lured into proposals that are unfunded. We have funding of this 140 million. kr. to this proposal for the extension of DIS taxation, so that it also applies to fitters. We have presented a fully-funded economic plan which produces a surplus of 2.5 billion. kr. in public finances by 2025, and we would like to allocate money from here to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171624	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171629	I do not, of course, expect the Liberal Alliance and their rapporteur to think that it is a problem that basic labour rights have been put out of effect in connection with the DIS Act, so I will not discuss that at all with the rapporteur. However, allow me to ask, and that is fair enough, if it is too detailed or too low in substance, about the proposal for adoption that the rapporteur helped to put forward. What is the point of eliminating internal distortions of competition in the European Union in the area of port development and infrastructure programmes? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171711	Well, there is something about the fact that the support programmes that exist in the European Union, in relation to ports in the European Union, bypass Denmark because there is such a main transport network through Europe. Norway is not connected to this, which is why we do not have access to them. These are some of the aid schemes that distort the market, which should be looked at, and in general we should look at whether there is a distortion of State aid within the European Union. I must stress that we are not happy with state aid in the Liberal Alliance. Nor are we in this area either, but I think we have it, as we do in some other areas, in recognition of the fact that we have a tax burden in Denmark that would effectively prevent Denmark from competing in some global markets if there were no special arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171807	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171809	Well, actually, I'm a little calmed and happy for the answer. It is quite true that a number of ports, including those which we regard as large ports, but which are not at all European in the context of, among other things. My own port, if I may say so, Esbjerg Harbour, which is not connected to the main TEN-T network, is therefore probably missing out on some support options. So if that's what's in it, I don't really disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171833	That is also how Question Time can lead to solutions. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Finally, I give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224171852	I have listened to the debate today, when we discussed Blue Denmark, and I thought that was a very good thing we did at first, because it is a very important profession for Denmark, which I am very positive about putting on the agenda. However, I am perhaps a little sad about some of the content of today's debate, and I shall try to explain that. I had a meeting, which I also mentioned in my introductory speech, with the entire panel that sat and worked with the Blue Denmark and which, on that basis, created the basis for what the government could play out with regard to its growth plan. They said to me that they were very, very satisfied with the cooperation that the government and the panel had had and that it had also been carried out so well and fully in relation to the growth plan that was now in place. They were even so pleased that they wanted to continue the dialogue by, in 2015, cross-cutting printing, if I may say so, the entire industry to see if there are any major trends and other things that could affect the entire industry, and then report back in 2016 to create a new growth plan. I believe that some of the satisfaction with the way in which this had been done was also due to the fact that it had been done in a friendly, orderly and honest manner and in a broad cooperation. I have been following this and have been a little puzzled by what happened up to this question. We have tried to see if there could be no joint adoption and other things, and it has apparently been sought and desired by the blue bloc that it would be blocked, that is to say, that it did not want to make a joint adoption. Of course, I can explain this by saying that it is an election year, but although it is an election year, I do find it disappointing that we are taking the opportunity to do so. I'd say that. I think we should find some other places to hoist the ideological tab rather than use the profession to stamp the ground with, or whatever you can say, to get on the field. That is why some of the debate has come to be about the fact that well-known proposals, that is to say proposals which we know well and where we even sympathise with some of them, but there is no money for them, have become part of a proposal for adoption in which we are required to put forward such proposals, and of course we cannot do so because the money has to fit in at the end. When you ask the rapporteurs how they are actually going to finance this, they are being talked out into thin air. I really find it disappointing that we have ended up there in a question debate on something as important as this whole area, which has actually been characterised by the fact that we have been united. With regard to the points of encouragement, I shall try to highlight Mr. Steen Gade of the SF, who came up with a very, very important perspective, namely that we have such a strong position in the maritime area, and how we also, precisely because it is a global industry, have to carry out our whole task globally, and how Denmark as a small country actually contributes to raising standards in quite a number of areas, both in relation to emissions, and in relation to how energy efficient and other shipping, for example. This is an extremely good example of how it can be useful to have a policy and not just to leave it all to the market. Therefore, I think it is something that was part of our growth plan and that must also be part of future growth plans. So I think it was very encouraging that we could demonstrate in this way that we are making a difference and that what the SF rapporteur also highlighted is one of the things that is worth taking in the future. Well, I guess I'll bet a broken wheat that Mr. Henning Hyllested will ask about the DIS law, so I might as well try to say something about it before. I think we should look at it this way, that if we had not had a DIS law, it might be that Mr. Hyllested had vexed that at present only one third of the sailors on all the ships are Danish. But I do not think there are any sailors at all to be annoyed about, because then I think that the industry had been flagged out, and that is why it was also necessary to adapt Danish legislation to the international competitive power that is now being incorporated into it. How has it been since then? Indeed, it has been the case that we have been able to maintain very good employment, and it has also meant that we have succeeded slowly, but surely, through cooperation between the parties, that we also have a decent job I am not saying that they are flashy, but I say proper working conditions also for foreign seafarers; that we have professional organisations that with employers go around the world and draw up agreements and ensure that there is order in the cases. And slowly, but surely, we achieve better and better conditions step by step, including globally. I think this is the right way to do things, and I think that it would have been fatal for Blue Denmark if we had followed the bad advice we received then, that we should be hard on the Danish maritime trade unions alone to decide on the whole global labour market as well. It would have gone wrong. That is why it makes sense to have the DIS system and I think that we have moved slowly, step by step, in the right direction. I have to add one thing, and that is that I am in dialogue with the ILO and have involved both professional organisations and shipowners; I have had meetings with all those involved, also to see whether we can follow the call made by the ILO that some discussions should be started. I do not know how that ends, but we have started up and we have started up constructively; only yesterday I had a conversation with the Chairman of Metal, who could confirm that a constructive dialogue had also been set in motion with the shipowners. But I would like to dispute the fact that this is such a clear breach of the Convention and as clear a breach as that of Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Henning Hyllested expressed here. I do not think that is sustainable in relation to international law, that is to say that Denmark should also violate the conventions to the extent that Mr. Henning Hyllested has said. So I think that, on the basis of this legislation, we should continue to produce results; I think that is the right way forward to do this for the benefit of Blue Denmark, for the benefit of more growth and more employment, and perhaps we can also help the industry increasingly forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224172640	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224172642	Then I'll try to nuance it a little, so it doesn't get so direct. I would just like to say that the ILO and a number of the Danish trade union organizations refer to the fact that this is a breach of the Convention, because these are fundamental labour rights. But, of course, I am pleased that the Minister is saying: we are actually doing something, we are actually trying to negotiate around to see if we can rectify some of the damage. And, of course, I'll be very happy if the effort leads to something good. I'll just allow myself, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It is not this government, but all the governments have actually said this, which is why we can afford to be a little sceptical. I would say that the logic that if not... now I can see that the President is standing up, and this is a longer part, so I'm gonna take that right at the next chop.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224172752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224172754	I really think it is worth thinking about how best to improve the working conditions of seafarers around the world. Is it by the fact that we stood very steeply at ours in Denmark with the risk of flagging out, and then they themselves had to handle it out there in terms of having to make agreements with shipowners? Or is it better for Filipino or Indian sailors, or who we are dealing with here, that there is actually a Danish trade union movement with out there which, step by step, ensures better and better conditions, also pay conditions and working conditions, and that there is also a labour law that applies and is in accordance with Danish legislation, on board many of the ships? I would say that it is much better to take the pragmatic approach to it, unless, of course, one gets an absolutely fantastic revelation around the world and everyone joins unions, and that one does all that with pay and working conditions in such a snap. But the fact that we are slowly, but surely improving these conditions, I think that is the best service we can do to third world seafarers as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224172904	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224172907	The fact that the trade unions are out there is certainly good and they are doing what they can. Their problem is, of course, that when it comes to the matter, and if you are faced with a rebellious nest, they must not represent the foreign sailors. They may not negotiate on their behalf; they may not negotiate collectively; they may not enter into collective agreements on their behalf if the shipowner objects to it under the DIS Act. That's the problem. One thing that could be done was that a nationality requirement was made in return by the shipowners for having, after all, received very favourable conditions in terms of tonnage tax and, for example, in terms of tonnage tax. seaman's tax. After all, we had that for masters until 2011, when it was moderated quite strongly. We could, of course, go into that discussion and see if, after all, the shipowners could not be drawn so far. I know they're fighting it, but the minster is a Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173015	He is, and as Social Democrats we learned at the time that Steincke, when he heard a speech from some very agitated Communist who told about everything that was to be achieved here and there and that one could not wait for it at all, said: My battle cry is this: 5 cents more per hour and a free membership of the sickness fund. In this way, we proceeded step by step and very pragmatically in order to keep making progress because we do not believe that we can just get it all at once. That is what is wise about pursuing social democratic policies: we are achieving results and we are not going to simply adopt empty resolutions. I think with this we are doing foreign seafarers the greatest service, and I mean that with all my heart. If, for example, we are to do Filipino seamen the service of helping them get proper working conditions, then I do not think it comes very much from the Philippine Government, from Philippine employers' organisations or whoever it may be. The fact that we are sitting with them and helping their trade unions on the spot to get to make a proper deal, I think is the greatest service we can do them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173117	Thank you, Minister. And then I understand that the rapporteur for the questioners wants another speaking time, and he is entitled to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173131	I am not going to interfere very much in the election campaign debate on labour market and trade union policy between the Social Democratic Minister for Economic Affairs and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, but I would like to take as a starting point the debate that has taken place here today. I really think it has been a little different, i.e. the experience I am left with is generally positive, but there were also a few places where I think it might have been a little more intelligent what came out of the mouths of various rapporteurs. I would like to sign up to the rapporteurs who have mentioned various elements of what is actually behind the fact that we have such a large maritime sector in Denmark which is as competitive as it is. And why is it that we have so many jobs in Denmark and on Danish ships? It is, of course, because we have good conditions for growth for the entire maritime sector, and we must continue to have that. But what has been the discussion, which is why I think we should have the debate, has not been alone. It has also been the question of where there are some places where we can do even better. And there I am sorry that what appears to be left of some of the rapporteurs, among others. Is that Mrs Ida Auken of the Radicals became a little disgusted and said that we had made it a battlefield by taking this debate in the Folketing in an open and fair way. And then the radical rapporteur made it a question of 140 million. kr. The rapporteur obviously believes that it costs 140 million. kr. to carry out these analyses and the calculation work which is required for something that seems to be already being calculated. But I find it very difficult to understand how it could cost 140 million at all. kr. If you read what our proposal for adoption says, that is not a cost of 140 million. kr. That is what seems to be the cost if you add the amounts together and translate them into legislation. Steen Gade from SF conducted a very constructive dialogue on the challenges themselves in the maritime sector. It was perfectly expected that Mr. Steen Gade mentioned green conversion and the environment and energy, not least because these are the resort areas which Mr. Steen Gade thinks we should spend most of the time here in the Folketing, and of course we also acknowledge his diligence in relation to it. The Minister for Business and Growth said that he was a little upset about part of the debate that had been because it had come into being, I do not think the Minister said mediastunt, but part of a perhaps upcoming election campaign or something. But that is not what this is all about. I would like to make that clear. I have been wanting this debate for a long time, and I think it was on 11 September last year that I expressed the wish to have this question debate. And so I did because we've had three different business ministers in connection with this plan for the Blue Denmark. It was launched by Ole Sohn, which was partly implemented by Annette Vilhelmsen, and has now come into the hands of the current Minister for Business and Growth. We recognize that, of course. But I think it is quite legitimate that, as an opposition, we should ask for a debate here in the Folketing and a status of what has happened and what the government thinks of it and whether there are some more things going on. I also noted that the Minister said in his reply that efforts were already being made to propose a growth plan 2 for Blue Denmark. I would like to say that one can of course always wonder when the Minister says that nowhere has the desire for new things been expressed and that the whole industry is so satisfied. However, I think that some of the places where we have outlined with our proposal for adoption that it would be obvious to have a discussion are, of course, around these different elements. If there are some of them who should be able to join the government's possible growth plan 2 for the Blue Denmark, I think it would be very nice and very good. However, we are grateful for the debate as a whole. We think it has been constructive far along the way, and we also think, of course, that there should still be great and broad agreement on the growth strategy that we should have for this very large industry, which is very much in Denmark and on the world markets. So we look forward, and we would of course like to discuss these things in more detail with the Minister when the time comes when we will be dealing with these announced growth initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173557	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173601	But that is not true when the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that it is only analyses that you want. I am here with the proposal, and it says that you want a model; that the government has to present a model. It costs money. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether there has been any discussion in the Danish People's Party about where the money should come from. Is this at all something of interest in the Group of the Danish People's Party? Have we discussed where the money should come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173626	I mean, I am not a social economist, nor am I a national economist, but I find it very difficult to see how Mrs Ida Auken can get it to a final conclusion that if this proposal is adopted, 140 million have been spent. kr. All that is specifically stated here is that, in this context, we are calling on the government to step up initiatives to eliminate internal distortions of competition in the European Union in relation to port development and infrastructure programmes. The other things are some analysis work and some calculation models where, of course, we would like to have the various things assessed: what they have of socio-economic effects, what will be plus and what will be minus compared to the state, what we will get of dynamic effects, what we will get of extra costs in tax losses etc. These things will, of course, be perfectly legitimate to have, and I really cannot understand why the governing parties are so opposed to it when they say that you have all the figures. The rapporteur himself has told us that it costs 140 million. kr. If you are so confident, why not just vote for it when you have the figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173728	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173730	That was a very long answer to a very simple question. Has the Danish People's Party's Group discussed where the money to make these actions should come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173741	Yes, but so, I think Mrs Ida Auken should try to read the proposal for adoption again. Once again, I think that Mrs Ida Auken should do away with herself, if it says in the proposal for adoption that it involves a bill of 140 million. kr. a year. If it does, I freely acknowledge that it is unfunded. But I certainly do not think it does, and I also think the rapporteur should perhaps try to read what it says. What specific initiatives are being imposed on the government, and what are some of the things you want to analyse in a purely socio-economic way? So it does not cost 140 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173809	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I said, the proposals for adoption will be put to the vote on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20150224173832	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 25 February 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. The meeting is adjourned.
