ParlaMint-DK_20151210100322	I am sorry that there has been a few minutes delay. There was such a bit of confusion about who should be here in the chair, so I'm just gonna jump in as a substitute. I hope that will be accepted. So welcome to the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly here on Thursday 10 December. The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 81 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the South Schleswig Committee and grant schemes in the field of the Ministry of Education for the Danish minority in Sydslesvig. Minister for the Environment and Food (Eva Kjer Hansen): Bill no. L 82 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Nature Conservation. Minister for Transport and Building (Hans Christian Schmidt): Bill no. L 83 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code. Bill No. L 84 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code and the Law on the Approval and Survey of Vehicles. Bill No. L 85 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on DSB. Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 86 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Assisted Reproduction for Treatment, Diagnostics and Research, etc.) Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 87 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. The titles of the notified cases will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Education and Research (Esben Lunde Larsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written research and innovation policy statement. R 6). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 19 January 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210100541	The item listed as No. 9 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. An opportunity has been asked to justify its position on the derogation, and I shall therefore give the rapporteurs one minute's speaking time. The vote will be taken on consent, but we will take the speakers first, and I will tell you who has signed up. I can see that it is Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen who is the first rapporteur. It helps me if you push in so I can tell you the order. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210100619	Here we are again. The government, together with the Social Democrats and the rest of the Right, wants to see legislation passed, and it was not a statement to rush a quite far-reaching one, it has to be said. Once again, we are faced with a situation in which the democratic rules that we have otherwise adopted jointly will be disregarded. And it's becoming a habit. I think that is deeply, deeply unfortunate, partly because it is a guarantee of the quality of our legislation that there is actually time to ask questions and get input from outside, partly because, if we are to take the people's regime seriously, we have to actually allow civil society to come up with their position on the legislation we are dealing with. You can't do that when it's rushed through the Folketing like this. Finally, I would like to say that it is a very far-reaching piece of legislation, namely that of carrier liability, in which a large number of questions have not yet been answered. For example: We are faced with the situation that DSB says they do not intend to accept that this passport control is carried out inside their trains and, at the same time, the German police say that they do not intend to accept that passport control is carried out on German platforms. So where are these checks to be carried out? It's just one of many questions that we don't know the answer to. Nevertheless, the majority is going to rush through the legislation. I think it is a lack of respect for the people's rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210100804	The next rapporteur's speech is from Mr. Martin Henriksen, DF. It is a short remark). There are no brief comments. In procedural terms, it is one minute for the explanatory statement and not a debate on the proposal itself. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210100818	Thank you. All I have to say is that the Danish People's Party can of course support the urgency of the draft law, and that is simply because it is very important. I think it can be said that what is going on out there right now is actually a moment of fate for Denmark, namely the very massive pressure, which is the result of a migration of peoples from the Middle East and Africa to Europe and to Denmark. There is simply a need for us to react. There is a tendency that we in this house are always a little behind. It would be nice to be at the forefront of the situation and if it is that the Swedes are taking seriously their plans to introduce even more border controls, then it is also necessary that we can do so from the Danish side. We understand that there may be some DSB employees and others who think they might be in a rather unfortunate situation, but it has to be said that if this bill is adopted, we also expect that the legislation that exists will be complied with. That is why, of course, we can support urgent treatment. And, by the way, we call on the government to introduce temporary border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210100917	Thank you for keeping to your speaking time. And the next speaker is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210100932	I am taking the floor because I simply think that we have to regret very, very deeply that we are once again dealing with an urgent procedure on asylum legislation, here in relation to transporter responsibility. I find it very, very difficult to understand that we cannot comply with the ordinary consultation deadlines. I don't think it suits our people's government. We have even discussed whether an ordinary proposal could not be put forward at the same time so that it could be dealt with in an ordinary way, but it has been rejected by the Minister. I think that is really, really problematic, and I do not really think we can be familiar with it. We should be able to deal with the legislative proposals so that there is the ordinary consultation period, including in the situation we are in now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101022	You're welcome. And the next reported rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Then I'm gonna ask you if Jacob Mark has signed up as a speaker, too. Okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101033	It is becoming a habit for this Parliament to adopt legislation with a derogation from ordinary, proper legislative practice, quite ordinary democratic procedures because the government has its majority. I hope you all explain it every day to the voters who voted for you. In Sweden, they have just postponed emergency legislation to engage in dialogue with the operators who have to carry out the task and give more time to formulate clear rules. That is what the Swedes say, which is why we should leave quickly. We in the Radical Left, with several parties behind it, have proposed introducing a three-month review clause into this bill at the same time. Then you can be allowed to rush, but at the same time have a proper legislative process, where you have time to engage in dialogue with the operators who suddenly face the whole responsibility of being wiped off on them because the government, because the authorities themselves will not take on the task. It's under all criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101148	Thank you. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Socialists, Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101201	Thank you. The Socialists support that it should be dealt with urgently. We are not in favour of developing the habit of implementing legislation as an emergency procedure, and I also think it might be a bit excessive to say that, after a few legislative proposals, we are now developing a habit. We are very aware that it must be justified on a case-by-case basis by the fact that this is absolutely necessary. So we think it is in this case. I could understand from one of the critics that we should have had a normal consultation process. Have you considered when the law could then come into force, and what consequences would it have if the Swedes introduced an ID control, which would mean that people piled up on the ferry bed in Elsinore and at Copenhagen Airport, at the last station before Sweden? In this particular situation, I think there's quite a good reason to deal with this bill as a matter of urgency. We have our support for that. I can also say that we support the amendment tabled by the Minister to introduce an audit clause after two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101259	Thank you. And the last rapporteur I have on the list at the moment is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101306	It has been in our minds that this is a very serious situation, and that is why we would have accepted that it might be possible to deal with this urgently if a review clause had been put in place that allowed it to be dealt with properly in three months' time. Then you could just go on Christmas vacation and have solved this problem, and in three months' time you could have done a proper legal treatment where you had had the time to engage with the parties that are so much smarter than the people who are in this Parliament hall. You don't want to. This will only be done in two years' time, and we will not be allowed to deal with this properly. There are so many questions that have not been answered. The Social Democrats' rapporteur himself put a lot of them in his own speech and said that, regardless of whether you get them answered, you vote yes. There has been no answer to what our relationship with the Swedes is. The Swedes are still in doubt whether they should introduce this. There's no answer to what you're gonna do about DSB, who says that whatever they're gonna do, they're gonna break the law if this bill goes through because both the Swedes and the Danes might want this rule. The Germans say no to this. We have not had the opportunity to have a good dialogue with those who know anything about this. It is therefore under all criticism that we do not have better time and that we do not have better time in the future. So we cannot support this urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101422	Thank you. I will just make sure that there are no more rapporteurs for one minute's justification. I do not see that, and that is why we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101434	We shall vote on item 9 on the agenda and we shall vote on it. I have to make sure that the technique is in place so that those who wish to vote can vote. Are there any more who wish to vote? That concludes the vote. In favour, 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal to grant a derogation has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101532	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I don't see anyone signed up for it. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101555	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Are there any more who wish to vote? I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 17 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101638	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101652	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. Are there any more who wish to vote? I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101742	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101759	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Are there any more who wish to vote? I shall conclude the vote. In favour 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101846	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101900	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Are there any more who wish to vote? That does not seem to be the case, so I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101939	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210101953	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Are there any more who wish to vote? That is not the case. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 16 (EL and LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210102028	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210102049	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. Are there any more who wish to vote? That is not the case. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210102133	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210102152	A vote can be taken. Are there any more who wish to vote? That is not the case, so I shall conclude the vote. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210102222	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210102244	A vote can be taken. I'm gonna finish the vote. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210102314	Does anyone wish to speak? The debate is open. A round of rapporteurs was requested, so I, from the Radical Left. Is that correct? The unitary list will also have a round of rapporteurs. Then we take Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen as the first rapporteur in the round of rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210102415	I would like to start by repeating that I simply think it is so unfortunate that the rules of democracy which we have adopted together seem to be taken as lightly as we have agreed, namely that legislation should not be rushed through in such a way. After all, there are at least two good reasons why we should have proper time when we have to adopt such a law. On the one hand, it is simply a question of quality. It could of course be that there were some objections from people in society that were relevant to consider, and one might say that in the case of this draft law there have been very serious objections, not least from, for example, from the point of view of the Court of Justice. DSB, who is going to do this and who says: Well, how are we going to do it? On the other hand, it is also about the rule of the people. I guess part of the people's regime is precisely that it provides space and time and the opportunity for civil society to be involved when we implement new legislation. When we hurry the legislation through in this way, there is an exceptionally small opportunity for civil society to be involved. I think it is unreasonable, and I think it is a pity if that practice is allowed to develop, because whatever we may disagree on all sorts of things, we should agree that the rules of democracy are sensible to observe. To the very content of this bill on carrier liability, I would like to say that it is extremely far-reaching. This is, firstly, for legal certainty for those who now need their passports, their visas checked by, for example. employees from DSB or employees from Scandlines who have no prerequisites to check for a passport, for example. is in order or not, and whether a visa is in order or not. And I understand that if you are rejected in such a DSB train and are told that you cannot enter Denmark, then the people you have to complain to are DSB. In other words, placing travelling people in a position of legal certainty is certainly a problematic situation. And I would say: would it not be the case that employees who are in doubt as to whether a piece of paper is in order or not will reject the traveller because the company, that is to say the employer, will be fined if you are going to take someone into Danish soil who does not have the papers in order? Secondly, I think it is actually unfair to the staff of, among others. DSB. That is also one of the points made by DSB and all the other companies in the hearings they have been able to send in: this is not a task for them. If you want more border controls, you have to decide, but then you have to let the authorities do it, let the police do it rather than outsource it to, for example. DSB employees. The last thing I would like to point out is that there are a whole series of unanswered questions. It can be said that we are actually discussing a legislative proposal which is due to be adopted tomorrow but which no one knows how to implement. For this passport control must take place outside Denmark's borders before the train or bus or ferry enters Denmark. DSB says passport control shouldn't take place on their trains. The German Federal Police say that Danish DSB employees should not stand on German platforms and check passports; they are not authorised to do so. I have put a whole series of questions to the Minister about this very thing, that is to say how you envisage practical implementation of the bill, and then I have been told that it is just the carrier's job to find out. It is strange, then, to adopt a law that one has no idea how to implement. Sweden is often referred to, and it is said that this is a consequence of the Swedish legislative proposal. In fact, the Swedes have just postponed the examination of their legislative proposals, precisely because they say: we have to engage in dialogue with those carriers when we impose such a task on them. So, first of all, I do not think this is fair to our people's rule, to our democratic rules. And I think we should respect them, whether we agree or disagree with the policy being pursued. Secondly, it is not fair to travelers to let casual DSB employees and employees of e.g. Scandlines, who are not trained in checking passports, get such a far-reaching task. And thirdly, it's not okay with the employees at DSB, the employees at Scandlines, who aren't in a position to do this. If you want to do this, you gotta put the cops to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210102930	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just asked the rapporteur whether the rapporteur wanted more calm in the Chamber. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen and then I say that I am done talking, but it may be that the next rapporteurs want more calm; I shall not be able to say that). There is plenty of background noise, and I have chosen to turn off the A, because four or five rapporteurs have been appointed. But that is the balance that needs to be struck, because there are actually 10 minutes of speaking time... from the Chamber You cannot hear anything). I'm sorry. We have chosen to turn off the 'A' because four or five rapporteurs have now been included, but not all rapporteurs are actually using their speaking time in ten minutes. That's why there was a little confusion about whether we should turn off the A. That's what I've chosen to do. But you can be prepared to be called back quickly if the rapporteurs do not use their 10 minutes of speaking time. However, I would like to thank the rapporteur here. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. And I'm still appealing away to get some rest in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103032	Thank you. I choose to speak here at second reading to call on the government to take advantage of the provisions which will probably be adopted in the Folketing this week and which are the result of the legislative proposal we are discussing here. Denmark is enormously under pressure, and there is no reason to hide the fact that if it were only for the Danish People's Party, much more control had already been introduced at the borders, as well as a control that would allow the authorities to reject asylum seekers at the border and thus refer them to seek asylum in the country from which they enter Denmark, which in many cases will be Germany. This bill is another step in the direction of more border control, and with Norwegian border control and Swedish plans in the area there is a risk that there will be a greater accumulation of migrants and asylum seekers in Denmark, for example at Copenhagen Central Station, but also elsewhere in the country. It is therefore incredibly important that not only this proposal is adopted quickly, but also that the provisions of the law should be put into effect, because this will really mean that potential asylum seekers will be rejected before they enter Denmark. And although it is perceived by many as a far-reaching proposal, yes, in our view it is in fact a fair answer to a very difficult situation, where the main focus should be on protecting the country from external pressure, a pressure that comes in the form of a regular migration from Africa and the Middle East to Europe and Denmark. There will certainly always be some who get through, but if this proposal for Danish legislation is made, it will be considerably harder for a large number of migrants to move to Denmark, as long as they do not have the correct ID documents. In relation to better protection of the country's borders, which we are basically discussing here, the Danish People's Party in the Finance Act has been implemented, that more police officers should be trained and more patrols should be provided in the border areas. Now is the time for the government to move forward, and the next logical step is more control and thus a better insight into who is going towards Denmark, and not least better opportunities to reject migrants and potential asylum seekers. We have come to the point where, for a while, we should put aside the political discussions and disagreements. It is perhaps a little naive to believe it in here, but we should at least focus on the fact that we must jointly secure the country. The people expect it, and I believe that it is indeed our duty to take up the positions that we hold in the government and in the Folketing respectively. So the call from the Danish People's Party is clear: let us get more control at the borders, and use this bill to ensure that people without access to Denmark, as far as possible, are denied access. The Danish People's Party recognises that the provisions of the law will give employees and companies a number of challenges, and we would prefer to have a permanent and permanent border control, but there can be no doubt that we are all obliged to do something and that we have to act. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103321	There are a few brief comments. The first is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103328	We have asked again and again, both orally and in writing, how is this bill to be implemented? For example: DSB says that passport control cannot take place on their trains until they enter Denmark, and the German police say that Danish DSB employees cannot stand on German platforms and check passports. Does it not at all concern the Danish People's Party that you pass a law that you do not know how to implement? Isn't it a little strange in fact to rush through something that no one knows what is going to happen, and isn't it disrespectful to the transporters, i.e. DSB and Scandlines and also the employees, that you don't think at all that you should go into dialogue with them to find out how this is going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103425	We do not have time to wait, for example, for the other side of Christmas or New Year. This is something that must be put in place as quickly as possible if we are to be able to react quickly to the fact that, for example, the Swedes are introducing more border controls. So there is simply no time to do all the things that Enhedslisten and others want us to do. That's the honest answer. Then an honest answer is also that if the proposal is adopted, it is up to the carriers to organise how they want to ensure that people they bring with them to Denmark have legal access to Denmark. That's the answer. You can do that, at the second the ticket is bought, you can do it when the person enters the train, and you can also do it on the trains. The practical execution of it is up to the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103516	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103518	There is no time to put it in place, says Mr. Martin Henriksen, however, says Mr. Martin Henriksen also said that it may well be that the law we are discussing here cannot be implemented at all, because there is no one I have tried to ask the Minister, and I have asked all the rapporteurs who can answer where this border control should actually take place. Isn't it weird to pass a law that no one knows can come into existence? Would the only sensible thing to do if we wanted the law to become something would not be to take the time it takes to have a dialogue with these carriers to find out how to do it and whether it can be done, as the Swedes have done anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103604	Basically, there is no wonder that the Folketing is reacting to the situation that Denmark is facing and reacting to the fact that there is a migrant crisis; responds to the fact that the Swedes have also introduced border controls and have plans for more. There's nothing weird about that. The weird thing is that the Folketing has taken so long. But, in fact, a reply has been given to the committee, which I would really like to read out, because I think it answers the question quite well. The answer is, of course, that the bill means that the Minister can decide that carriers, as in the case of entry from a non-Schengen country, can be subject to criminal liability if they bring foreigners without the necessary travel documents and visas to the country from another Schengen country, if there is a temporary border control. And that's the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103647	The next short remark is Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103652	Last week I noticed a statement by the rapporteur that if trains are to stand still, they must stand still. That was quite a significant statement, I should just like to say, but not unrealistic, in the sense that DSB has actually announced that it may be necessary, because of course they have neither the resources nor the ability to control it there. The rapporteur says that this can be checked when buying tickets. You can, for example. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on the report by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities to the Council (Doc. So it has to be done on platforms, which cannot be done, or on trains, but you do not have the resources to do so. The situations that arise are not trained by DSB's staff. And this is not just about DSB staff, it is about bus drivers in cross-border bus traffic, and it is about ferry traffic. Is it really the rapporteur's serious opinion that if cross-border traffic on buses, trains and ferries is to stand still, then it must stand still? And then what happens? Have any calculations been made on the cost of Danish society if all cross-border transport suddenly stands still?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103816	It is clear that if this is adopted and comes into force, it is possible that you will then be able to buy a ticket at a machine à sous machine as you do today, but DSB or another company must then make sure otherwise if this does not happen at the time of the ticket purchase. Basically, you could also imagine that this could happen at the second you enter the train, in order to make sure that only people who have legal access to Denmark come along. If that does not happen there, they must find another way to do it, and that is their responsibility. It is in the same way as when an airline, that is, a private company, from Egypt or Turkey or somewhere else, transports people to Denmark, because then it is also their responsibility to ensure that they have legal access to Denmark. So it's not like it's a whole new reason you step here. On the second question, it is true that I have heard someone say that train traffic will stop completely. I would therefore urge DSB and others to organise it in such a way that it does not come to a halt. But what I have answered is that we cannot stop acting, because some people say that there may be a risk that train traffic will stop. Because that would be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103921	The questioner with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210103926	DSB has been relatively clear about this, that this may well mean that for example. train traffic is stalling, and so are a number of bus companies. After all, there is the very, very big difference between air traffic and air traffic that you will not get access to flights, because you will not get through security without you actually having a valid travel ID, where you can also see who it is that travels. You can't do that when you travel by train or by bus. As I say, you can pull a ticket in a slot machine at a train station, and then you can get on the train. So it's a completely different situation, you put the train transporters, DSB, Arriva... Arriva doesn't have cross-border transport... ferry companies, bus companies in, and their staff aren't trained for it. I have to ask whether this really does not give rise to any concern. Isn't it a nice statement to say that if traffic stops, it stops?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104023	I can easily understand it if there are employees and companies who do not think this is very good. I can understand that. But what I am just pointing out in all silence is that we are in a situation where approx. 1,200 asylum seekers for Denmark a week, and I know Enhedslisten does not regard this as the big problem, but we do, in fact, from the Danish People's Party. The municipalities are enormously pressured, Denmark is enormously pressured on a wide range of areas. There are plans to introduce even more border controls at the Danish-Swedish border with a very high risk that there will then be an accumulation of migrants and asylum seekers in Denmark, and we simply cannot afford to stand and watch that. That is why we are in the process of applying austerity measures in the field of asylum and aliens, and that is why this bill has been put in the Chamber. In order not to put it in the Chamber would be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104110	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104117	DSB people now need to check both tickets and passports. Citizens can't take another citizen who can't get there in a car. Citizens are not allowed to let a person spend the night in their private homes. I think that there is now a free hand over how much you can go over the individual's personal limit. Will it also be the case in the future that if a merchant sells a litre of milk and two loaves to a refugee who is here illegally, then he or she must also check papers? Or should the bathmasters also reject people at the entrance to the bathhouses? How far will the Danish People's Party go in their crazy hetz against people who for some reason are on the run? I think it is starting to look like something where you go very, very close to my personal integrity and the right of ordinary citizens to make their own assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104223	Well, I hardly know what to say. In other words, with all due respect, I do not regard this as a serious contribution to a debate which must be said to be very serious. This is a situation that is very serious for our country. I find it difficult to take this speech seriously. But no, we don't plan for bathmasters to check passports before people get into the swimming pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104247	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment. That's 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104255	But the rapporteur must decide for himself what he takes seriously. I'm just trying to relate to the proposal on the table. The rapporteur is currently in the process of giving a task of authority to the police, which is why we are hiring them as civil servants and women because they have a special job and training for it. I don't think you can put ordinary workers into this. The concept of life, honour and welfare alone means that one must do one's job as well as one can, but one cannot be entrusted with regulatory tasks. How far can it go? Are they also going to carry weapons, or how far will the rapporteur go in this crazy ride?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104352	We do not intend to introduce a law that says that DSB employees should bear arms, if that is the case, sir. Christian Juhl is worried about. I just want to say that if you read the bill, you can see that unless you have written something in it yourself does not appear in the bill, as is the case with bathmasters either. But okay. So, in my rapporteur's speech, I also said that if it were up to the Danish People's Party, we would have permanent and permanent border controls in Denmark. Then we had officials, including on the trains, who made sure to control this. That is not possible at this stage, and that is why we have done so in such a way that we have achieved, for example, in the financial law negotiations, the need for more patrolling in the border areas as a task of authority, and we consider this draft law to be another step in the right direction. I know it's a step away from what Enhedslisten wants, but it's a step towards what the Danish People's Party wants, although we understand that there are some employees who can be in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104450	Then we will get to the next one for brief remarks. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104455	Thank you. The rapporteur himself says that this is going to mean that there are employees who are going to be in a difficult situation, and that is because they simply have no idea what to do, because there is simply no answer to where to exercise control or how to do it. So that is quite a difficult situation. In the Radical Left, we have proposed an audit clause in three months' time so that the law can come into force now, but that we can clarify and clarify what needs to be done and how the operators and their employees who are in this very vulnerable situation should act. That is why they have postponed in Sweden. Why will the rapporteur not vote in favour of this review clause?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104538	This is because we believe that the most important thing now and here is to get the bill passed and that it will also work, and then we support a review in 2017, the time that has been set up by the Minister. That's where we've chosen to make the cut. In fact, when it was said at first reading that there was a desire for a review, I thought it was a very good wish, and we have so far taken note of that and listened to it. We then disagree as to when it should come.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104606	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104609	But there is a very big difference between waiting two years or not, because that does not allow us to settle. Our amendments will, of course, allow us to actually comply with the rapporteur. It can come into force now. The rapporteur will have the tool that the rapporteur wants, and at the same time, if it is not necessary to put it into effect right now, we can use the time to actually find out what the task is for these workers. What are we imposing on them? Where are they gonna do it? I find it very difficult to understand why the rapporteur really does not want to be a part of this. This does not, of course, stand in the way of the rapporteur's wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104644	It is simply because we have an assessment that we think it is okay to revise the legislation. We then disagree on when to do so, but when that is said, we have a clear expectation that if the draft law is adopted, and if the provisions enter into force, the Ministry will, of course, follow it very, very closely. We shall also do so by the Danish People's Party. I understand that there are employees who may be put in a difficult situation, but the answer to them is that yes, we can see that this may not be the most appropriate way to do it, but nevertheless, in the situation that Denmark is currently facing, it is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104718	Then I give the floor to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104724	Now I know that the rapporteur would like to have closed borders so that people do not come in. It is, of course, a fine political position to have, if you agree with it. On the other hand, something that worries me in this draft law, for which the rapporteur stands and speaks, is the responsibility that we place on private companies and employees of private companies: how can we secure their legal position in relation to these issues? How can we secure the tools they need to check passports, visas, etc.? And what sanctions do they have against persons who may not have such papers?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104806	Today it is the case that employees, for example. Check if you have a ticket to the train or whatever you're in. In this context, there will also be an opportunity for them to ask whether you have the right IDs and if you do not have the right IDs and, for example, if you do not have the right IDs. is on a train that is parked at the platform and is about to drive if that is the way to check it on the platform they must ask the person to leave the train. If the person does not want to do so, I would urge you to say it again, and if problems arise, you have to call the police. I would also like to say that there is a difference between having closed borders and having a desire for permanent border controls. Permanent border controls are not, of course, a closed border for everyone. A permanent border control is a control that ensures that those entering Denmark are those who are actually allowed to enter Denmark. That's very clever.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104852	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104854	After all, there is a difference between examining a ticket, which is exactly what they issue and therefore know about. But what kind of basis are they able to check these visas, passports, identity documents, etc.? On? And how are we gonna make sure they're trained properly so we're sure they know what they're looking at and looking for?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104916	It is a relevant question and the answer is that it is up to the companies to ensure that the controls are carried out in a satisfactory manner. In this respect, I think it is relevant to look at education.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104929	The next brief remark is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210104934	I would like to pursue that trail with what it is like to ensure that the staff concerned are able to check the correctness of it. The rapporteur said before that if there is a disturbance, you have to call the police. In other words, we are now in a situation where the German authorities say that the Danish staff cannot check on German grounds. We then assume that they, for example. I need to get into the trains. And then the rapporteur says that if there are any problems, you have to call the police. But there they are on German soil, and we know nothing about whether the German authorities will assist them. What is the rapporteur's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105019	As far as I have seen the statements made by the German police authorities, what I have read in the media, and we can always verify that elsewhere than in the press, they say that they are not allowed to check passports, but that they can ask for ID documents and can also ask to see the passport, so that it is not really control, but that they ask to see it as a condition for those concerned to be able to drive exactly their means of transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105045	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105047	But I do not think the rapporteur is answering the question quite clearly, because how are we supposed to help our Danish companies to check these papers? I mean, it's a real control that has to take place. And again: what if there is unrest there and they cannot call the German authorities because they do not want to assist?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105109	If the German authorities, in other words the German police, are called in because, for example, there is a call. I have an expectation that the German police will react to it, just as the Danish police are responding to it in Denmark. You have to have an expectation of that. In relation to this help, I would say: yes, but what we are doing here is trying to help our country. That's what this is all about. And then I fully understand that there are some who think that things are going a little fast, that things are going a little fast, but in the current situation it is necessary. The alternative is to do nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105141	Thank you. I see no more with brief comments to the DF's rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105158	Thank you. When this bill is dealt with urgently, it's because it's urgent. Then it is not because we think it is a good way of making legislation in general that it should be rushed through, so it is because we are in an urgent situation. And that's something you can't just decide. There are some special rules on qualified majority voting in order to be able to decide on an urgent procedure, and we have adopted this in the Folketing today. There is the necessary qualified majority for things to go smoothly. If things do not go fast, if we do not get this in place, then we risk being in a completely impossible situation, causing all the concerns we have about carrier responsibility, etc. to fade away, and that is why we are taking urgent action. It is not out of light, it is out of necessity, and it is certainly not something that we intend to become a habit. As far as carrier liability is concerned, it is understandable that a number of carriers have said that they are very concerned about how to deal with this situation that they are not used to. It has to be said that this is reality. In other words, it is good that we have reached that point in the internal market, in our Schengen cooperation, that the introduction of border controls is something that is so far back in our memory that we can barely imagine how it is to be done. Today, if we take Copenhagen-Malmö, the Øresund region, for example, we have got what many of us have dreamed of: a situation where it is as easy today to get from Copenhagen to Malmö as it is to come from Copenhagen to Roskilde. It has helped that employees from Sweden work in Danish shops and in Danish business. You can't go into Magasin without encountering a Swede, and I think it's nice. In the same way there are also very many Danes who live or work on the other side of the health. Anything that has taken years and that has cost billions to build, we are now in danger of being put back. This is an unfortunate situation, not least for the Øresund region, so it is not something we think is funny, so that we in Denmark may now also have to adopt measures as a carrier responsibility and have increased difficulties in crossing the border. That is because the alternative is worse and it was not the party I thought it was the alternative to the current situation. So we are not doing this out of desire, we are doing it out of necessity, and we recognise the concern of transporters about how they are going to do this task. We can easily understand that this is a task that would have been best left out. I came to a bit frantically in connection with an interview to a newspaper to say something like that now this isn't nuclear physics, and it isn't after all that I'm sure you can find solutions, but I just don't think we should imagine that we who sit in this room are the best at finding the concrete practical solutions to some concrete practical challenges. These are solutions which have to come along in one way or another. When we see the problems, we solve them. There are indeed challenges because we are in a new situation that we are not used to. We just have to keep in mind why it is that we may still hope that it will not be necessary to get into a situation where border controls or carrier liability will be necessary. This is, of course, due to decisions which are not taken within this Parliament, but which are taken in Stockholm by the Swedes. If the Swedes decide to introduce transporter responsibility and more or less close the border between Denmark and Sweden, we have to introduce something similar, first and foremost of course at the Danish-German border, but we have to come up with an answer. So this is an unfortunate situation, but it is an unfortunate situation that has been imposed on us from the outside by some decisions in Sweden. First, it was a decision to invite virtually the whole Middle East to Sweden, if you were interested in it, and then the Swedes are about to collapse and say that they can no longer do what we are some who have warned them about for a long time then they are exporting the challenges and problems to Denmark. So this is a situation we have been brought into because of some decisions taken elsewhere. And no, it is not something we do because we think it is funny; it is something we do because it would be irresponsible not to act in the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105652	Thank you. Six comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105702	I would say to the rapporteur that this is somewhat sloppy. You are creating more problems than you solve, and you have a very, very unclear exercise of authority. I would like to ask: if you want to control borders, why do you not create real border controls with trained staff who know what they are dealing with instead of passing the monkey on to companies and their employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105732	Well, that is precisely the same reason that we have a carrier responsibility today when we talk about transport from a nonSchengen country to a Schengen country. That is because, if you have a check that comes first at the border and then there is a passenger with no visa, it presents a number of challenges, as the rapporteur is well aware. So that's exactly the same reason. That is why border controls are not sufficient, and that is why, even when we are talking about transport from a nonSchengen country to a Schengen country, we have a carrier responsibility, and that is why it will also be necessary in Denmark. Moreover, this is the same conclusion that the Swedes and the Norwegians have also reached. So it is no wonder that this is an arrangement that we will then have to introduce into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105819	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105822	I do not think that was a very clear answer to all the problems now being called into question, i.e. how both the employees and the companies should act. We are just told that you can understand that this can cause some problems for some people. Oh, yeah. God knows that. Why don't you give me an answer to that before you start making legislation? I don't understand any of that. Sweden has so far taken the refugees, and you have sat back and have done nothing and have just said that they were stupid. Now they're trying to say that there's a limit to how many they can take, and then they're gonna have to get yelled at that they're not gonna take them all back. What do you guys think about the role of the Swedes in this? Or would you rather say that just that isn't our problem and that we don't care?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105912	No, it is a common challenge and there are some common problems. And I certainly do not think it can be said that Denmark has not solved its part of the problem and has assumed its share of the responsibility. There are quite a lot of asylum seekers in Denmark and quite a lot of people have been granted refugee status, so I do not think that is fair to say. However, the fact that the Swedes and Danes have pursued a different policy in this area is clear to everyone, and that is something the Swedes have not missed an opportunity to draw our attention to here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105945	The next brief remark is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210105952	The rapporteur from the Left says that it is urgent, and the reason why it is urgent, is the decisions that have been taken in Sweden, and that is why this bill is being implemented in a hurry, even if it is not a good way of making legislation. That is how I hear the rapporteur. And I think it is quite liberating that the rapporteur clearly says that this is not a good way to make legislation, but that we are forced by some external circumstances. But then I just do not understand why the Left is not voting for the amendment that has been tabled, which is that in three months' time we will re-examine the bill in this Chamber, and if it turns out that there are problems, we can take that into account. At the same time, it offers the opportunity to have a proper democratic process and to have talks with the carriers, etc. If the rapporteur now says so remarkably and liberatingly clearly that this is not a good way of making legislation, why can we not vote for the amendment to re-examine it in three months' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110057	Of course, this is not a good way to make legislation. If that were a good way, we would always do it like this, and then we could get a little fussy and get a lot of legislation passed quickly. When we have rules on how long we need to spend on first, second and third readings and how long we want to send things into consultation and so on, it is precisely because we want to give people an opportunity. But then there is also an opportunity for the Folketing to deal urgently with legislation, and this is not the first time that has happened in the history of Denmark. This often happens, for example. If we are to send soldiers to war, then we cannot wait 3, 4, 5 weeks to make such a decision. And that happened, for example. I would also like to point out that there was a teacher's conflict that needed to be tackled. In other words, it happens when there are things that are urgent and this is urgent, and that is why we are adopting it in a hurry. But no, it is not something that should in any way develop into a habit; in that case it would be a very, very bad habit. As far as a review clause is concerned, an amendment has just been tabled by the Minister on a review clause so that we can see whether there is a need to change things in the legislation itself. As the legislation does not concern the way in which the carrier's liability is to be carried out, many of the practical challenges that will arise will not, moreover, be solved by changing legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110210	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110215	Now, that was a very good explanation of why this is a bad way of making legislation. But that was not an answer to my question. My question was: why does the Left not vote in favour of the proposal to re-examine the proposal in this Chamber after three months, precisely because of the many good arguments that the rapporteur himself has just made that this is not a very good way of making legislation? The rapporteur then says that the government itself has put forward a proposal which is about having such a clause, and at that time it has to be re-examined. Yeah, yeah, but it's September 2018, and there's a lot of time for that. In other words, if the rapporteur, and here again, clearly and so precisely states that this is a sloppy way of making legislation and that it is not good, why not vote in favour of the amendment? Let's re-examine it after 3 months and not in September 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110312	Thank you for the rose. I cannot agree entirely with myself whether I should be happy with it or whether I should be worried. However, as a starting point, we do not believe that the legislation should be rushed through. During the previous parliamentary term, when we had another government, I was after the government, for example. was to introduce a law on fixerum. This was something we had not had before, and then suddenly it had to be rushed through with a six-day consultation deadline. I didn't think that was right. We also had a very complicated legislation on some changes in the calculation of the basic debt, which had to be rushed through with a consultation period of 11⁄2 days, and I did not think that was right. So, no, the starting point is, of course, that things should take the time that things should take. However, when there is an urgent situation as there is at present, it is also necessary that we make urgent legislation, and now I have no more speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110358	But it has the next question, which is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110404	Well then, I can continue along the same path, because I find it difficult to understand why the rapporteur's party does not want to vote in favour of that revision clause. The rapporteur says this very clearly: well, we have not necessarily found the best solutions for how it is to be done in practice out there. They will have to find out for themselves out there, but it is we in the Danish Parliament who will have to legislate on the framework that will allow local players to find out how to behave. We have now been given answers to a number of questions where there is a lot of ambiguity, so I find it incredibly difficult to understand why the rapporteur's party cannot vote for the revision we have proposed and that it will wait until 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110449	Well, it is because the government itself has proposed a review clause, which, of course, has the advantage built into it, that it may also be that so long has gone by that these things have been in effect, and you have seen how it has worked, and then you can see whether there is a need to change some things in the legislation itself. However, since the legislation does not relate to how the carrier's liability is actually to be carried out, it is not the legislation that can help the carriers to find out how it is to be carried out. It is as if there is such an excessive belief that we in the Folketing are experts on incredible numbers of things, and that if we just sit down and spend a few weeks trying to find out whether the control should be carried out on the train or on the platform, and what training a trainmaster should have, etc., then all the problems will be solved. Now it is the case that a great many problems are solved every day by dialogue between authorities and business and so on, and if it is finally necessary to make guidance and announcements, etc., then we can do so too. Don't have a belief or a belief that in here we can solve all sorts of practical problems out there in real life. I think there are some people who are much better dressed for that task than we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110608	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110612	Well, I guess it's okay to listen to the carriers, and I guess it's okay to ask how they deal with the situation, that they shouldn't stand on German soil and check. So how do they do it? And they can't take them into Denmark, and that means they have to get these people into the trains in one way or another, so they have to control them there, and then they have to push them out again if they don't have the right papers. It is OK that we in here from the Folketing will, after all, be somewhat clear as to how the framework is established. And then I think it is a little interesting that the rapporteur says that we can just wait until 2018, because it is not certain when it gets started, and then at least there is plenty of time to find out what the issues are. So it is no more urgent than it hunts, and then I think we might have had an ordinary process here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110706	The rapporteur says that it is okay to listen. Well, it's more than okay to listen. It's a duty to listen. Of course we must, and we must take it seriously, but I repeat: when the law does not regulate how the carrier responsibility is to be carried out in practice, and when what the carriers are asking about is how they are to carry it out here in practice, then the answer to their concerns is not a legislative process of 3, 4, 5 weeks, when we find out how to help them. This must come into force before the Swedes introduce something similar. Until a very short time ago, the Swedes announced that it would enter into force on 21 December. So it's gonna be a minute. And I do not want to take responsibility for the complete sanding of Copenhagen Central Station and the destruction of the Christmas trade, and I do not know what we have any offer of a solution. Surely we need to deal with an emergency situation by dealing with the problems acutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110807	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110813	In his speech, the rapporteur himself raises the question of how we have got into this situation, so we have to stand and slop a law through. That is something we must then be forced to do by the Swedes because of their invitation to the Middle East and now they want to introduce border controls. Is the rapporteur not concerned that what we are doing right now is actually simply pushing the monkey on to the next country and to the next country instead of finding a viable solution, and that this is therefore a slightly light symptom treatment of a larger problem which should actually be used energy to solve rather than stand here sloppy as it is right now? What we are going to see is not a solution. It is just that we push it forward and can close our eyes and then the next country can do the same and the next country can do the same. So it is that they are standing on the beaches of Lesbos and in southern Italy with the problem. So doesn't the rapporteur worry that we just keep to our eyes, ears and mouths, and then we have pushed the problem on to our friends and neighbours?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210110925	Now it is not the case, because things are moving fast, that it is necessarily sloppy. If something is urgent, you can sometimes hurry without necessarily getting sloppy. I don't feel like it at all when I look at this law, that I say what a sloppy thing I can hear that others feel that way, but I acknowledge that things have gone very fast and that things shouldn't go so fast normally. It is only something that has to go fast when there is a really good reason for it, and the very good reason for it is that we have. It is true that this is not something that solves problems in the long term, surely it is not. There are quite a few other things that need to be done, not least in Syria, where we have an Islamic State, which should of course be fought down, and in terms of European cooperation, it is also evident that there are some things that could be done much better, but we cannot just sit down and wait for us to resolve the major problems and then, in the meantime, just see that we have a lot of problems in Denmark that we could avoid with due care and which we can avoid by introducing, among other things. Transporter liability if the Swedes do something similar. After all, it is the Swedes who are pushing the problem on to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111045	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111047	After all, nobody is asking us just to sit and wait for others to come up with the solutions. After all, we ourselves could actively go in and help find those solutions. But will the rapporteur not go so far as to call it sloppy? I still believe that it is when we do not listen to the criticisms and take them seriously. But what about the fact that there are others who are facing the problem on the other side of the border? Well, where are we gonna throw these people? What are we supposed to do when they start making illegal entry into Denmark because they cannot come by train and bus? Are we going to see rubber boats at South Funen, too? Shall we see people running over the fields? I mean, where are we going with this little fast piece of legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111130	If politics was about choosing between good, sensible solutions without any side effects and then some miserable solutions that didn't work out at all, you didn't need a Parliament. Then the solutions gave themselves. We are here to make some difficult solutions, some solutions where you can look at two scenarios, and then you can see that there are some problems associated with one, that there are some problems associated with the other. One does not solve all the problems, and the other does not solve all the problems, and then you have to weigh what solves the most problems, which causes the least disadvantages. This is the situation in which we have to take decisions which we would have preferred not to have to take, but which we have to take because the Swedes take decisions on their side.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111224	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111226	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur himself began by explaining that perhaps he had said a little boldly that this law was not nuclear physics. And that's right; it's not nuclear physics. There's a lot of complicated relationships that aren't nuclear physics. But the rapporteur then calls this a practical problem. This is a practical problem for operators to find out. Is it a practical problem that operators may be exposed to unlawful acts either in Germany, in Sweden or in Denmark, regardless of how they approach the task? I think that is more than a practical problem, which it is actually the legislator's responsibility to deal with. That is why I cannot understand why the rapporteur can be against a three-month review clause, which ensures that the rapporteur has his urgent tool now and here, but at the same time provides an opportunity to resolve the problems which are far more than practical. Why is the rapporteur opposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111330	Well, I am not against a review clause, and the government is proposing a review clause. This is then a review clause that comes into force at a time when we also have some practical experience that we have become more aware of. So that's basically the reason for it. I am not saying that the proposals of the Radicals are bad, I am just saying that the proposal made by the government is better, and that is why we are voting in favour of the government's proposal and not of the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111351	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111354	No, it seems to have been almost a point in itself to the government that it should not be the Radical Left's proposal that was adopted, since that is the case I do not think the rapporteur has explained exactly what makes the operators should be asked to commit illegal acts for a two-year period, right up to 2018, before we can recognise that it was perhaps not so clever and that we can then review it. Why will the rapporteur not be involved in a three-month review clause?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111435	Well, it may surprise the Radical Left, but there is a world outside Christiansborg, and there are problems that are solved outside Christiansborg, and there are problems that can be solved without us having to change a law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111446	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111453	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur what will happen if we are now told that these problems cannot actually be solved. Should we then follow the government's amendments and wait for two years and leave the operators with insoluble problems? Or would it not be much, much more sensible to follow the amendment which says that we will have to look at this again in three months' time, so that we do not put operators in situations that they cannot solve, not because they do not want to, but because they may not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111521	It is of course very interesting on the same day to be accused of being too fast and too slow: we are adopting this legislation too quickly and we are adopting the revision of it too slowly. In other words, if there are problems so great that they can only be solved by the government coming up with a new bill, then there will be a new bill. Then it will not be the case that we are sitting here and saying: no, no, it has to be two years, and then everything may fall apart, but we are just sitting here waiting, because now we have passed the law for two years. Of course, the government is constantly following developments, I had almost said day by day, and will come up with the necessary initiatives as these initiatives become necessary. I can reassure Mrs Ulla Sandbæk that it will not be two years before government initiatives in this area will again be seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111614	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111630	I still do not understand what the amendment about looking at this in two years' time is going to be for, if it turns out that you actually have to look at it a long time before. After all, all of us who have been against urgency dealing with this bill have said that if the amendment were adopted we could accept the urgency procedure. Nevertheless, the rapporteur has spent almost all his time explaining why urgent action is being taken. We understand that. What we can't understand is why you won't look at it again in three months. And I still don't think I've got a good explanation for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111707	But when a review clause has been introduced, it is to give a guarantee that the law will be revised. If there had been no review clause, there would have been no such guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111715	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111718	Thank you. I would like to put a slightly different perspective on that. It is, in fact, an economic issue. After all, there is a concern on the part of DSB that this is going to cost a lot of money for DSB. They also believe that they may have to stop some train traffic. HH-Ferries has estimated that it will cost 40-50 million. kr. on the crossing Helsingør-Helsingborg. What is the rapporteur's position on this? What do we do about that concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111743	When someone is assigned a task, it will cost money. It is also clear from the draft law that there will be economics for the business community associated with this bill. We recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111802	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111804	So it will mean that it will be solely the responsibility of private companies to pay the extra cost which potentially impairs the competitiveness of those companies. Is that the rapporteur's opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111818	All companies are put on an equal footing. After all, it is not the case that some companies have to bear some costs and others do not. It is a general cost, a inconvenience that is put on some carriers. There is no reason at all to hide that and, as I said, it was something we would have preferred to have left out. What's the alternative? The alternative is to do nothing. We have to do something and, after all, it is no different from the situation of those carriers who are today transporting passengers from a non-Schengen country to a Schengen country. There are also increased control costs, there is also carrier responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111858	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210111918	Thank you. I did not really intend to speak at second reading. I take the floor to address my friends: to the Enhedslisten, to the Radicals, to the Alternative and to the SF. I would like to say that I respect your very thorough committee work, as I have seen in the legislative process of this bill. I respect the warning against turning on the automatic pilot and the fact that it will be a habit to deal with legislative proposals as a matter of urgency. I would also like to say that I have respect for the commitment and for taking the work as elected representatives very seriously. But we all have a weight within us, where we put in one bowl what is in favour of a legislative proposal and in the other place what is against it. I fully recognise that there are things in the balance that speak against, and that is what the debate is going to be about. There is also something to advocate that we adopt this bill. Today 150 asylum seekers arrive in Denmark a day. They haven't even come to the municipalities yet. The majority of them are in the asylum centres and are in the process of dealing with their case. Just the pressure on the municipalities now causes mayors in this country to yell at the guard in the rifle. After all, this already has consequences for the public economy in 2016. It has consequences for how big the Danish welfare state can be and what it can develop into everything we care about. If the Swedes hit the brakes, that means, as far as I am aware, that eight out of ten of those who are arriving in Sweden today will not even enter the country. They want to stop in Denmark. It is in the second weight bowl that they will stand at the ferry terminal in Elsinore, they will stand out at the last stop at Copenhagen Airport and will be Denmark's responsibility with the cultural and economic challenges it presents to our country. It weighs in the other weight bowl. Now that we have finished the debate on all the relevant objections to the practical implementation of this legislation, which I think is relevant, I must also appeal to you to step back and look at your own scales and consider whether this really is the signal we want to send to the Danes, namely that the whole centre-left except our party is running from responsibility when it comes to it. Is that really the signal we want to send: that it should be the government and their parliamentary basis and then only the Socialists who take responsibility when it comes to it? That can't be right. I would really recommend going in a group and considering whether this bill should not be voted on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112209	There are a number of brief comments. I would remind you that in the Danish Parliament we use the third person, which means that it does not actually belong in the Danish Parliament. The first person to sign the list of speakers is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112220	There is nothing new about the fact that the Social Democrats regard legal certainty as much different from the Enhedslisten than the Radicals, than the SF, than the Alternative. There's nothing new about that dividing line. However, I am surprised that the Socialists and the rapporteur do not support our amendment to re-examine this bill in three months' time. Because I think everyone has now realised that this is a sloppy way of making legislation. And there are a number of questions that have not been answered, among others. a number of issues which have very far-reaching consequences for employees, for example: at DSB and at Scanlines. I know, sir. Mattias Tesfaye has been campaigning for and has been interested for many years in working conditions in Denmark. Here are really some employees who are going to be in serious trouble and who are very worried about this bill. Would the most decent, among other things. for the sake of the employees who are at DSB and Scanlines and elsewhere, be not to say: in three months we will re-examine it so that we can listen to the employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112334	Thank you for the question. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I think there are two scales. What speaks against is the fact that there are some unresolved issues. I fully acknowledge that. I also spoke to the rapporteur of the Radicals a few days ago or yesterday, perhaps it was said to me that the Radical Left would table an amendment to include an audit clause. Shortly after that, I also spoke to the Minister, and I am pleased that, in the light of the debate that has taken place, the Minister has tabled an amendment which we then support. It is clear, of course, that if there is anything legislative that is obviously ridiculous over the next two years, then we will have a political debate on what the Socialists are, of course, asking for. We are at all times ready to change legislation, which is obviously stupid. If there is anything in the implementation of the law, i.e. in the exercise by the authorities of the legislation that we have adopted, which is obviously stupid, then, as the Parliament has said before, we have a responsibility to keep the government in the ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112437	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112440	I think everyone has seen that the Socialists support the proposal to have a review, which could therefore be in September 2018. Our proposal is not about revising the law in September 2018. It is a question of saying: this is so quickly implemented that the rapporteur himself found it difficult to find a way around the days; it is no wonder when legislation is being rushed through in such a short time and with such severe consequences both for travellers and for employees that it is fair to look at it again in 3 months. Could the rapporteur not relate to what is wrong with looking at it again in three months' time? That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112526	We have no problem looking at this bill in three months, in six months, in nine months, in twelve months. What the amendment tabled by the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF is about is committing the Minister to revise the law in three months' time, and that is something else. Then I will repeat what I said in my introductory speech, which was about an appeal also to Enhedslisten on the subject of a situation in which the Swedes had planned to evaluate from 21 December: is this the decisive factor in balancing everything that speaks for and against this bill that makes Enhedslisten unable to back it up? I find it a little disappointing that this is the signal sent by the left side of the Chamber to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112611	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112617	Just as the rapporteur did not intend to take the floor, I did not really intend to take the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, but since they are now making direct representations to my own party, I would rather do so. There was also a time when the Socialists were concerned about workers' rights, and some of the things that concern me very much, and I have not concealed that in my speech at first reading, is that those who actually have to do this work, namely the train controllers, those who sit and sell tickets, the drivers, in other words all those who actually wear the work gloves, and for whom we usually in the centre-left tend to fight, are against this because they are deeply concerned about their own safety. And they are very concerned because they do not have the skills to do the work that we are now putting them to do. Isn't that something that worries the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112702	As I said in my introductory speech, there is something that weighs in one bowl and something that weighs in the other. Well, I think it would have been nicer to stand here and have a pretty clear sense of how the identity check will actually have to be carried out. I haven't, but when I weigh things in my bowl, I have no doubt at all that it will be for the benefit of Denmark and for the highly beloved royal Danish working class that this bill goes through. For the alternative is that Denmark will become the end point for the flows of refugees and migrants across Europe and that it will have consequences both culturally for our societies and for our welfare state and cohesion and economical for the opportunity to finance the society we love. So in that balance, I'm not the least of a doubt. It is not at all the case that I have to find my inner balance and think about it. I am absolutely 100 per cent sure that this is clearly for the benefit of our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112756	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112759	Yes, but not for the benefit of those who then have to do the work, but that is so fair enough. The next question is also about the position of the Social Democrats. My position is quite clear. It is that if you introduce this, there is an imminent danger that we will pass the monkey on. Then Germany will introduce it. Who will then introduce it after Germany? It is moving down all the way through Europe and down to Greece again. There was a time when the Socialists had a vision and tried to solve the international problems, the European problems together and said: we have a common refugee problem, how do we solve it? Do the Socialists no longer have a single idea of how to solve the European problems together?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112837	I think that is an incredibly relevant question, because this is not a long-term solution. This is a short-term solution. After all, the long-term solution is that people should not flee and about the refugee camps to which many of them are fleeing. Many of those who are currently standing in Rødby, those who are today going to seek asylum in Denmark, have lived for several years in a refugee camp in Turkey. That is also why we have been opposed to the cuts in foreign aid presented by the government. It is actually the case in the Danish Parliament today that only one political party is ready both to take the short-term responsibility and to vote for this carrier responsibility and the long-term responsibility, namely to ensure that there is support in the neighbourhood as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112921	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210112925	It is quite fast that the rapporteur has learned what politicians are trying to say: we take responsibility and the others are irresponsible. It does not bite me now, and I think the rapporteur would say in other situations too: well, what is that ridiculous argument? I would like to ask: when do the Socialists start to take responsibility for legal certainty • for the fact that there is actually no emergency situation and that we can take the time necessary to talk to the unions about how we should deal with life, honour and welfare when these drivers and all the others should have a task of authority? After all, it does not matter how the task will be solved or what you will come up with in January, in February, in March, that you look at legal certainty. When is it also to take responsibility to say that things should be proper and not be sloppy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113023	Firstly, I would like to say that I do not think that is a bad argument. It is not a bad political argument to take responsibility for the situations that arise in our country. I think that is a good political argument. Secondly, if I were a minister to implement this law, I would make sure that I kept in close contact with the professional organisations which have members to carry out this control. That's for sure. However, as an elected parliamentarian, I would like to say that it is not my job now to sit down with the professional organisations and discuss how this law should be implemented in practice. If we had had a social democratic government and I had been a minister in it, I can promise you that it would have been one of the first things I had addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113101	Again: We don't use the duform in the Folketing, so we just need to correct that. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113108	Thank you. Well, then, I would like to recommend to the rapporteur that the practice of politician, that is to say also as a member of parliament, be taken out and talked to both trade unions and all sorts of others, including in acute situations. That is a very good thing. Then you get a more nuanced background for having to take a position instead of jumping on any urgent proposal that any government might make, which looks at first hand clever, but which, in substance, is quite ill-considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113142	Thanks for the advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113147	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113152	Thank you. The rapporteur calls on everyone to take a step back, breathe, remember to take responsibility. I think that is good advice, and I should like to return it to the rapporteur. Because it is very important to be able to see everything from the outside, I agree with that. The rapporteur also talks about taking responsibility. We are very much in favour of this in the Radical Left. We have been doing this together with the rapporteur's party for four years. We have pursued a very good, balanced policy in which we took responsibility for everyone, for our welfare society, for our economy and for the people who were on the run. Now the rapporteur wants to rush through a legislative proposal which wipes off the responsibility of some people other than politicians and the authorities. After all, you wipe off the responsibility of the operators, because you don't know what the task is, and you can't explain what it's gonna be. In the Radical Left, we would like to take responsibility for this urgent task. We believe that this should be an authority task when we do not have clarity as to what the operators should do. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur again: why can the rapporteur's party not be involved in implementing a three-month review clause that will enable these complications to be resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113315	Firstly, I would like to say that it is not my experience that any responsibility is being wiped out on anyone. On the contrary, my experience is that a majority in the Folketing is taking responsibility for dealing with the situation that is at risk of becoming a reality in Denmark. Secondly, regarding the comment on the specific amendment, I would like to say that we have supported the idea that there should be an audit clause. We cannot support the fact that there must be one after three months, because it will become a de facto parallel legislative process. We want this law to work and then the Minister to be required to present a revised law at the latest. Then, I expect, there will be amendments to the law in the light of the practical experience which has been gained with it and which we did not want as early as 1 April.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113421	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113426	So the argument against introducing a three-month review clause is that there will then be a parallel legislative process? After all, the law will be able to enter into force immediately, and then you will have a proper legislative process in which you can obtain consultation answers and take care of the practical measures that operators can provide. That is precisely why the Swedes have just postponed their legislative process because they are listening to the operators who say that this cannot be done practically and because they are listening to the Council of Law that says that this is a completely unfair legislative process. That's why they put it off. We don't even have to postpone. The rapporteur can vote in favour of introducing a review clause to make his urgent legislative proposal work and have a proper process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113512	If we were to carry out a review which would mean that the Minister would have to put forward a new bill by 1 April, that would mean that I would consider that the discussion would again be based on the consultation responses that have come in. If we have a review a little later, the discussion will be based both on the consultation answers that have come in and on an accumulation • presumably, I will guess on the concrete, practical experience with the legislation. I think that what speaks for the later model is, of course, later, and it speaks against it, is that it will strengthen the debate, that we have some concrete experience with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113558	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113606	Thank you. Now I did not really intend to speak to the Social Democrat rapporteur, but since the Social Democrat rapporteur also addresses it to the Alternative and talks about scales, I would just like to inform the rapporteur of what is included in my scales: solidarity is included; humanity is included and responsibility is assumed for all the people we are now effectively setting a border barrier to. What we are putting in place here in practice is that it will be impossible to apply for asylum in Denmark if you do not have the papers in order. In other words, we push the monkey on to all our neighbouring countries. That's part of my weight bowl. What then forms part of my scales and makes me critical of this bill is that we are imposing on some carriers the responsibility for applying this legislation which, in my view, is not properly worked out. That's what's in my bowl. And I think that the rapporteur should take a stand on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113706	I would very much like to deal with this, and I would also very much like to acknowledge that the rapporteur for the Alternative is very precise in his description of what weighs most heavily on the considerations of the Alternative. I assume that this is the entire Parliamentary Group of the Alternative. I only interpret it as meaning that what is described as humanity will, in practice, mean a multiple number of asylum seekers in Denmark and thus a multiple number of challenges, and these are both cultural and economic challenges. What I am trying to explain in my little speech is what matters to the Socialists as well. We are 5 million people and there are 500 million in Europe. We make up 1%. of the population of Europe. I would be ashamed if we received less than 1%. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). But that is not the case, as far as I am aware. I do not think we have any reason to be ashamed of ourselves. But I think we should be ashamed of the Danish people if, as the situation now stands, we five or six times the number that came to Denmark and applied for asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113805	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113808	Now we have just run an EU vote using the word scaremongering. I'd almost say this is. But I can throw the ball back and say: then it's better that we stop all these really, very many refugees at Lesbos. That will, of course, be the consequence of what we are doing: closing the borders all the way down. I find it worrying that we are adopting legislation here on such a hasty basis, bearing in mind the many criticisms that have come from carriers. I think that if we choose to close the borders temporarily and introduce a carrier's responsibility, we could take time to deal with matters properly in this Parliament. That would open up such a review clause that we actually do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210113901	It is not closed to apply for asylum in Denmark, even after this bill has been adopted, nor after the Minister may have put it into effect, so on the basis of the authorisation which I hope we will give her. Asylum seekers will still be removed to Denmark and they will still be treated away, and they will still be given refugee status. The rapporteur then says that it is bound to be a scaremongering campaign. I will say: I hope you are right; I really hope you are right. But the hand on the heart: I don't think it's scaremongering. I hope the rapporteur is right, but I do not think this is a scaremongering campaign. If you look at an apology, if the rapporteur looks at the asylum numbers that have been both in Germany and in Sweden, then I think that the most realistic scenario for the Danish asylum number in the case of ID checks on the Øresund Bridge and the Helsingørfærgen will be a multiple increase in the Danish asylum number.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114000	I am pleased that the rapporteur corrected himself a few times. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114010	Thank you. There is talk of exercising responsibility, yes, of solidarity. For me, the responsibility of solidarity is very important to show in a situation such as that which we are in right now in Europe and at the borders of Europe. Right now we see that people are risking their lives to flee to Europe across the sea in small rubber boats from Turkey to Greece. They do this because there is a carrier responsibility to get into a plane to get to Europe, which would be much cheaper. What the government is doing now raises a question that I think the rapporteur needs to address: how do we now seek asylum in Denmark? You cannot cross the border if you do not have a valid visa or travel document. That means crossing the border illegally. That means we can get to see rubber boats on Ærø or what? Or do people have to run across the fields to come to Denmark and seek asylum? Because you can't apply for asylum from a DSB employee. This is done by an official who is first on the Danish side of the border, and that is not where you should go. So how to apply for asylum in Denmark now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114112	Thank you for the question. I think we are approaching the discussion I would like to have, and I would like to acknowledge that the alternative is more precise in their questions. They are political as in these questions: how are we to understand solidarity, and how can asylum be sought in Denmark? As far as I am aware, about a fifth of those arriving in Sweden already have a valid travel home and apply for asylum on that basis. There is no reason to assume that the figure for those arriving in Denmark will be different. That's my assessment. In relation to solidarity, which is a beautiful concept, what I am sure we can all put on the plus side of the scales in the Parliamentary Chamber I would say that solidarity is also a concept we have towards the welfare society we have here in Denmark. And, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it has been and continues to be challenged economically and culturally, and it would be even more so if the number of asylum seekers for Denmark increased significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114213	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114222	I have to go back into the question of how to apply for asylum in Denmark. After all, a lot of answers have been given by the Minister to some questions that have been asked here, and you cannot enter Denmark if you do not have a visa, that is to say if you come from a country that is subject to visa requirements. Because then you'll be stopped before you get in; because of the carrier's responsibility, the DSB employees will • if it's a train push people out the door, and if it's a ferry, you won't get on board. How, then, do you apply for asylum in Denmark when you cannot enter the country? Only by trespassing illegally will the rapporteur really want to see illegal entry into Denmark so that people can come up here and seek the protection that they may be entitled to under some conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114300	Thank you for the question. I do not want anyone to enter Denmark illegally, and if Germany had been a place of insecurity, and if it had been a country where people were chased around as they are in Syria, then I would not think that we could introduce a carrier responsibility from Germany to Denmark either. But Germany is not such a country. In a situation where internal security in Denmark was under threat, it would only be in such a situation that, according to the Schengen acquis, the Minister would have the opportunity to introduce carrier liability. I do not think we need to be ashamed to say to the people who stand at the station in Flensburg and apply to come to Denmark and who have no valid travel home or visa: please stay in Flensburg. You don't have the opportunity to go to Padborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114348	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114354	But it is very interesting that the rapporteur admits quite openly that if these rules are introduced, we cannot apply for asylum in Denmark. But it is actually against human rights that asylum cannot be sought in a country. I know that the government has no objection to going against human rights, among others. in connection with having to wait three years for family reunification... it is said that it is quite obvious that human rights will also be violated by the fact that asylum cannot be sought, I think it is quite strange. Will the rapporteur recognise that it is against human rights that asylum could no longer be sought in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114434	First of all, Mrs Sandbæk bases her question on the fact that asylum can no longer be sought in Denmark. That is wrong and I said the same in my previous answer. I would recommend that Mrs Ulla Sandbæk listen a little more closely. Secondly, do I recognise that it is against human rights? No, I don't recognize that. And in the debate we have today, and this is the case with several of the other foreign policy debates we have had over the last few weeks, I would also like to recommend to the parties I spoke to in my rapporteur's speech to be a little more careful about just slinging around about whether we break conventions and human rights. Because I believe that the debate is perplexing that we must always deal with whether or not we are against human rights. In the specific case here, legal assessments have been made by the Ministry as to whether we violate EU law obligations or other international obligations, and there is no evidence on the part of the Ministry to say that one or the other is broken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114526	Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114528	Then I would ask the rapporteur to explain to me what the rapporteur meant by, that people should stay in Padborg. Indeed, it is rarely the case that asylum seekers come with a travel document which gives them access to Denmark. If they had a visa, they could take a plane. It would be easier to get to Denmark with a plane and with a visa. What does the rapporteur mean by saying that people must stay in Padborg? I see it as such that they will not be able to apply for asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114557	Under international law, it is no human right to stand in Sudan and demand that his asylum application be examined in Denmark. No one has the right to do so if they are in Sudan. They don't have the right to do that if they're in Padborg. They have the right to do so if they stand on Danish soil and say: "Asyl·.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114619	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Josephine Fock if she wants to. After all, it is not easy to figure out that after the Socialist rapporteur comes the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210114645	Thank you for that, President. I must admit that I find it very regrettable that we are once again faced with an urgent procedure for legislation in the field of asylum, which is likely to be adopted despite a great deal of uncertainty and many unanswered questions, which we have also been made clear here today. It is particularly regrettable because it is actually my impression that all the parties here in the Folketing understand that the government would like to be able to rule in a situation where more refugees are coming into the country than the current authority's preparedness to deal with. I also believe that we could have a relatively constructive broad cooperation if the government and the supporting parties to this proposal were prepared to have such cooperation. But now we are dealing urgently with instead of a legislative proposal which, in my optics, must be considered to be very far-reaching and which leaves us with a great deal of uncertainty as to how it will be implemented in practice and what the effect will be. That is why I hope that the Minister will take the floor and try to answer some of these questions which have also appeared today, so that we can have some more clarity as to what this bill will be of practical significance. We are, of course, giving the Foreign Minister the right to impose criminal liability on private carriers in order to ensure that those companies carry out checks on travellers' passports and visas. But it is still unclear to me how the Minister intends this control to take place. Because one understands that it is too late to do so on arrival in Denmark and that the Danish Government cannot grant permission to private Danish companies to do regulatory control on foreign land. This means that we can find ourselves in a situation where the Minister by law commands private companies to break the law abroad, and can that really be right? I would also like the Minister to reply to how, for example, the bus driver or the flight attendant on a ferry should be able to check the authenticity of different travel documents, bearing in mind that they are subject to criminal liability. Could it really be that from one day to the next you can impose on private employees the responsibility of the authorities and the task of refusing refugees and denying them access to Denmark, for example. on suspicion of forged documents? And if it is not true that these documents are falsified, where is it that the person concerned can go back to Denmark anyway? If DSB is about to carry out passport checks at the train station in Flensburg, how will the Danish authorities make sure that DSB can get assistance to carry out the task from foreign authorities if necessary? If huge queues arise or if physical force is to be used to throw someone off the train against their will, do the Danish authorities expect the German police to step in and help DSB with a task which, according to the German authorities, is illegal? How will the government ensure that the transport company does not suffer serious financial losses as a result of the legislation? It is to be expected that staff will be trained for the task and that more staff will be employed to handle the task. In addition, the requirement may even cause major delays and serious challenges in maintaining a satisfactory product. All of this could very well result in huge financial losses. Will private companies be compensated for both direct financial costs and indirect financial losses? These are some of the many relevant questions which the transport companies themselves have raised in the consultations we have had and which I hope we can get some concrete answers to so that more clarity can be given as to how this law is to be put into practice. So for the balance bowl, which was mentioned earlier here from the platform. I am concerned that the Danish authorities are going to deal with a situation in which we are hermatically closing the borders of refugees that we are pushing around between the countries of Europe because no one wants to take responsibility. If this law is put into effect, we will in practice reject all refugees unless they seek asylum at the border or unless they have a valid visa. And who are they going to apply for asylum against the DSB staff? I would therefore like to ask the Minister, with all due interest, whether there are plans for how the authorities in Denmark have planned to deal with the control of refugees who have entered the country illegally. How do you plan to handle it if they sail over the Danish waters in e.g. rubber boats and comes illegally to Denmark? What do we do, for example? With refugees trying to boat over the Fehmarn Belt? Are we going to force them back to Germany, or are we going to take them ashore on Danish soil and send them back if they do not seek asylum? Are there plans for this kind of thing? Are there any considerations about fences at the fields and forests at the Danish-German border, or how do we intend to carry out checks there? As has been said, in the alternative, we are opposed to this proposal being rushed through in all likelihood, and we still hope that the government will consider supporting the amendment that has been tabled on a revision protocol. I would urge you to do so so so that we can have a proper and thorough examination of this bill. As things stand, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115212	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115216	One question I have been looking forward to asking the rapporteur is this: what is the alternative? And then the rapporteur should not say that it is a political party, but the rapporteur should look at what the alternative is to the situation we are in now. Because when you hear Mrs Sandbæk, the only logical consequence of what the rapporteur's party colleague says is that we must abolish carrier responsibility at all and that we must lift the visa requirement. Because, according to the alternative, it is evidently contrary to human rights that asylum cannot be sought in Denmark wherever you are in the world. And this must of course mean that we must abolish the visa rules, that we must be able to allow people in Syria, Iraq and other places where refugees or asylum seekers come from to seek asylum automatically in Denmark. This must also mean that they must be allowed to take an aeroplane so that they do not have to embark on a dangerous journey by dinghy, etc. Is this the alternative offer of the alternative to solve the refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115323	We would very much have liked to have seen this draft law on carriers dealt with properly and thoroughly. We would very much have liked to see a decision taken as to when it is a task of authority and when it is not a task of authority. How do we help the carriers if we initiate this temporary border control in relation to what is legal and what is not legal? Are they going into the train or are they not going into the train? We simply think that there are so many unresolved issues in this draft law, and that is why we do not want to deal with it in this way as a matter of urgency. That being said, we think we push the monkey forward. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115401	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115403	Hello, man ax handle. That's not what I asked you. I asked questions about what Mrs Sandbæk said, namely that according to the alternative view of human rights in the alternative, it was supposed to be a human right to seek asylum when you are also in a non-Schengen country, and that it was a problem that you were forced illegally to flee by means of a rubber boat, etc., because it was demanded that airlines and so on. I had to check passports. So what I am asking is: does the alternative want to lift carrier responsibility in general, and does the alternative want to lift visa rules? These are two relatively simple things to relate to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115444	Since I am not the rapporteur in this area on a daily basis, I would like to come back to answer that question. What is important to me here is that there is a problem in this bill, in relation to how you can apply for asylum in Denmark. I do not think the questioner will deny that either. That is what we have been trying to clarify. We tried it in the technical committee too, in other words whether there is a problem with the human rights convention here. The Ministry promised to come back to that with an answer, and I look forward to having an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115518	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115521	The Folketing has just witnessed a rhetorical and substantively excellent speech by Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, who ended up in a question to the other parties in the red block. In fact, I do not think an answer was given, and that is why I am going to help Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye and ask the rapporteur: is there anything evil that can be greater than breaking up law and order and greater than an immediate threat to internal security?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115555	That is why, if the questioner had actually listened to my rapporteur's speech, I said that there is an understanding that if these specific problems arise, the government will have to act. But what is in this bill is simply not well worked out. There are so many ambiguities and these are the ones we want to resolve. That is why we have also proposed a review clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115621	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115622	Is it to be understood that if you cannot perform a perfectly well-worked and in every respect checked bill, then Denmark must accept the dissolution of law and order and threats to internal security?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115637	We are not of the opinion that those threats will be at the door tomorrow. We hear something like what about Christmas shopping and what if the entire Copenhagen Central Station is flooded. I do not regard this as a threat to law and order in Denmark. That is why we want this bill to have the opportunity to be thoroughly processed, and I find it very difficult to see that there has to be a problem in saying that we have to do it again in three months' time. I find it incredibly difficult to understand why it has to be such an obstacle.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115707	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115709	Thank you. The rapporteur was asked whether the alternative would abolish carrier responsibility for companies transporting people to Denmark from a non-Schengen country. I was able to understand that the rapporteur would not respond to that at this stage. That is, of course, fair enough, and we can come back to it at a later stage. So let me ask the question in another way: will the alternative expand the possibilities of seeking asylum in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115735	Again, it is not my rapporteur's area, so I do not want to go into that. I don't feel well enough dressed for that. But what I can say again about this bill is that I find it problematic that there are so many uncertainties about how you can actually apply for asylum in Denmark. Should you enter the country illegally? If so, there is a carrier liability if you have placed yourself under a truck and are transported into Denmark and how can you apply for asylum in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115800	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115802	It is true that if this proposal is adopted and if the provisions are implemented, then everything else has to be the same, that there are those who simply find it harder to get to Denmark and thus find it harder to apply for asylum in Denmark. But that's what it is. We think this is quite a good thing on the part of the Danish People's Party. I would just like to know, because that is also what the draft law is about, in that it also affects the asylum area, and in that the alternative has also asked other rapporteurs about it, and I think it must be easy to answer for the rapporteur, whether the alternative generally has the view that we should extend the possibility of seeking asylum in Denmark. There's gotta be a way to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115840	Well, I think I will take it upon myself to reply to that, because there the alternative clearly has the view that yes, we can receive more refugees in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210115851	Good. No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now postpone the sitting for one hour and resume the sitting today at 1 p.m. 13.00 here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130133	The sitting is resumed. We will continue with the second reading of Bill No. L 74, and we shall continue the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130155	Thank you, President. We are again discussing urgent legislation, and we are doing so on the grounds that the Swedes are dealing with urgent legislation. The Swedes have just postponed their legislative process in order to listen precisely to the transporters, who are entrusted with many tasks and a great responsibility. The Danish Government could also choose to do so. However, in the Radical Left and in the other parties that have tabled an amendment, we would like to be constructive. We have put forward a proposal for a three-month review clause. We can then implement this urgent legislative proposal when the government wants to, but at the same time we will actually be able to have a proper legislative process. I do not think I have received a single answer from any of the rapporteurs who are voting in favour of why the government and the support parties will not be involved in this. This would mean that they could implement their proposals, but at the same time have a proper process and no stones on the way for what they want. I actually think that for us and my party is going really, really far. Nevertheless, the government and the support parties will not be involved. This bill worries us because there are a large number of legal problems that both the people who have to travel across borders do this on a daily basis, but which also the staff that the operators have to put in order to carry out this duty of control under criminal liability, without having the necessary conditions for it in any way, will be able to face. There are so many questions that have not been answered. We have, for example. the obligation to provide care in Denmark. You cannot, as a bus driver, put a 7-year-old off on the road, but with this bill it remains quite unclear whether Danish operators are actually being asked to do exactly what is actually illegal in Denmark under criminal liability. There are a large number of other things that operators seem to be responsible for under criminal liability because they have been wiped out of their responsibilities, but which can actually mean that they have to commit illegal acts in either Denmark, Sweden or Germany. For me, it is quite clear that the government and the support parties with this bill want to wipe out the responsibility. You wipe off the responsibility of the operators, because you will not decide how this bill will work in practice. This is a practical problem, one has to understand from the rapporteur of the Left, whom the operators have to solve. But it's not just a practical problem. These are simply fundamental questions of legal certainty, which have not been resolved at all. That is why we in the Radical Left believe that it should be an authority responsibility as long as it is so unclear what it is that you should do as an operator or employee for an operator when you are put in this situation by a majority of this Parliament. We are really sorry that the government has not wanted to accommodate our proposals, we think, very constructive and compromise-seeking proposals to get a three-month review clause into the bill, so that we could, in line with the Swedes, take that dialogue with the operators, with those who are being put to do as serious a job as what they are being asked for here, and so that we could have clarity about the guidelines in this law. I am very sorry that the government and the support parties will not respond. We shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130617	Thank you. There is, for the time being, a single request for a brief comment. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130625	I should like to ask the Radical Left rapporteur whether there are any formal rules that have been violated in connection with Parliament's urgent consideration of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130639	After all, a majority in the Folketing has dispensed with the formal rules of the Folketing. There are formal rules on how we treat legislation properly, and they have been dispensed by a majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130657	Has the derogation been granted in a way that complies with the formal rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130703	I have not questioned that at any time. What I am questioning is that a majority in the Folketing believes that it has received an answer to everything they need in order to be able to take a position on this bill. I am very surprised that parties that have actually been in the debate still cannot answer what it will mean for operators when they have to commit illegal acts in a number of different countries. It really surprises me that a majority in the Folketing believes that this is not a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130732	There are no more requests for short remarks, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210130741	Thank you. In the SF we say no to this proposal. First of all, we find it very regrettable that this has been dealt with here and that there will continue to be this very, very short processing time. And why is that so regrettable? That is it, because we have a number of players and there are over 100 pages of consultation answers, and I have rarely seen so many consultation answers where a lot of players say that this is a worrying proposal, that this is not something they can deliver, that they are afraid to deliver and that it is almost impossible to do so. When we have then subsequently suggested that, even if we have to deal with it as a matter of urgency, at least a qualified legislative process can be carried out in three months' time. That is the least we can do, and perhaps we could consider it, then the answer is that it is not possible for two years to go by and there is no further explanation as to why it is exactly 2 years. We recognise that this is a serious situation, and that is why I also said in my speech at first reading, and I would like to repeat that we would like to be involved in discussing temporary border controls, but it will be with officials. We do not believe that people can be put to work at border controls, which is not an authority which does not have an education which does not have a clear instruction on what they should do. I am worried when I read the consultation answers, where several of the carriers from DSB to ferry, train and bus companies tell me that they do not have the skills to do the work that they are now going to do. They don't know how to do the job, and they don't really know what these fake IDs or visas they're gonna check out look like, they don't know. Nor do they know what to do, if a serious situation arises suddenly, and if anyone is going to complain about their decisions out there, neither do they know where to send those people, and I have not been able to find out either. If you are now rejected in relation to coming to Denmark because there are some DSB staff or any other staff who say that those papers don't look right, who are you complaining to? Where is legal certainty in that? Then there is the more worrying thing for me, which I have also discussed today, i.e. this worker safety. When you do your job, you have to be safe, but when people have fled and after hundreds or thousands of miles come up here they may be desperate to reach their family or to their end-station and they are suddenly told that they can't, then they may be afraid of what will happen then, and I can actually understand that. And it is not to make a scaremongering, but I think it is a human reaction, and there may well be such a violent reaction, and where is the safety of the workers in it? Who are they going to? Who are they working with? Then there's this more fundamental question about the kids. You mean, kids just have to be left behind? Yes, it may well be that they do not come to Denmark and get asylum. But don't we have a responsibility to these kids? Then there is the legal thing to which I do not think there will be an answer at all, and I actually think it is because it cannot be answered. I don't think I've ever experienced it in political treatment. When you've asked if it's not right that this law will enable DSB to get into a situation where they're gonna break the law no matter what, it's said: yes. Yeah, but what? Well, what's DSB gonna do? What do you imagine would happen? There has been no answer to that either. I just find it extremely regrettable that we have reached the point where we are virtually fighting our neighbouring countries in such a tight race, where ministers can be seen out and almost discussing with our Swedish neighbouring country and with the Germans whether this is in order or not, instead of using the gunpowder to find common solutions. That is so short-sighted, and that is what the Socialists said. Yes, this is a short-term solution, and no long-term solutions will be presented at the same time. As I said, if you had time to discuss how to ensure that it was officials who could have done this work, and if, while doing this, you had had time to discuss how to secure pan-European solutions, so that responsibility, the monkey, is not just pushed further and further down, we would have been happy to discuss it here. Because we can also see the seriousness of it, and I have actually heard all the parties in the Folketing say that, but there is no time for that. So we say no to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131202	Thank you. We have one brief comment for the time being, and it is from Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131207	What, in the rapporteur's view, is the problem of the conditions in which, for example, we are faced? Kastrup Airport, where SAS enforces the carrier's responsibility when, for example, you are in a position to do so. traveling to Britain?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131226	As I understand the rules, they never get across the Danish border, and there is a completely different kind of security out at the Danish airport. I don't see it at all. After all, the rapporteur has seen as many times as I have seen, that the number of people in security is quite different at an airport than at a railway station. At a railway station, the rapporteur can go over and take a ticket in a machine à sous machine and get on the train directly. I do not see how an airport can be compared to a railway station.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131303	Transporter responsibility at Kastrup Airport is not enforced by government officials. Therefore, can it be expected that SF will make legislative proposals that in future, the carrier's responsibility for travelling to a non-Schengen country will be enforced by e.g.: The police?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131320	In fact, I do not think the rapporteur is dealing with what I am saying, that is, with regard to safety, there are marked differences between an airport and a railway station. I don't even see how you can compare a railway station where you can go straight and pull a ticket, and then you can walk right into a train, with an airport where you have to go through a security check, where there are security staff, where there are police, and where you have been able to get used to these rules for years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131346	Thank you to the rapporteur. Are there any other rapporteurs who wish to speak? There isn't. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131359	Thank you. After all, this bill has given rise to some debate today, as well as it did at first reading. That is why I would just like to make myself available for debate here on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament. Then, of course, I would say that if we now carry out transporter responsibility or at least hopefully get it voted home, it is because it may be necessary for us to use carrier responsibility. It will be in a situation where Denmark will be under unusual pressure. This could be in a situation where the Swedes, for example. has introduced a carrier responsibility. We will be able to find ourselves in a situation where thousands of migrants and refugees could have accumulated, for example. Copenhagen Central Station. In such a situation, but of course first, it depends on the fact that if temporary border controls have also been introduced, you will be able to take advantage of the carrier's responsibility and thus apply the law. But I just want to make myself available if there are any questions to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131538	Thank you, and there are a number of brief comments. We start with Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131545	Thank you. Can the Minister confirm that neither the Minister nor the Government has any idea how this passport check should be carried out? For DSB, for example, says that it should not be done inside the trains, and the German police say that it should not be done on the platform. So is it correct to understand that the government has no idea at all how controls are to be carried out and that one takes the view that it is perhaps equally important that we do not know how this is to be done in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131623	No, it doesn't matter how this is gonna happen in practice. But I can say that it is not and the rapporteur is fully aware of how this is to be done in practice. However, I can say that it has to be before the Danish border. So it has to be on the German side. I can also inform you that we are, of course, in contact with the German authorities at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131649	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131650	That's how far I get, and I think everyone else is. These checks must be carried out before the border with Denmark. But that's where the information stops. I haven't been able to get any answers. The Minister now has the opportunity to tell me and all sorts of others how these controls are to be carried out. If the Minister does not use his speaking time here in the second place to tell how this control is to be carried out in practice, then in addition to the fact that it should be before the Danish border, I have to assume that it is true that the government and the minister have no idea how the control should be carried out. But the bill is still adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131733	But I have already replied in a written reply to the Danish Parliament that it is precisely up to the carriers to decide how this should be done in practice, so Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen cannot be surprised. Well, in fact, when I have replied to the Folketing, it is actually exactly the same answer that I am going to give today. I'm not gonna change the answer because it's been 24 hours or two.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131756	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131800	I would like to go into more detail on what has been a discussion here today, namely the question of when asylum can really be sought. I would like to confirm that refugees arriving at the border can apply for asylum and then be transported to an asylum centre in Denmark. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131823	In other words, if you have to apply for asylum in Denmark, you have to go to Denmark to apply for asylum. So the answer must be yes, but that is to say provided that one has reached the Danish border.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131837	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131839	Good. And how is that related to this carrier responsibility, compared to when you, for example... Want to get on the train down in Germany? So, what will happen in concrete terms to a refugee who would like to apply for asylum in Denmark and who does not have a visa for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131853-2	Then you will not be able to apply for asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131900	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131905	Then we were told that it would be impossible to apply for asylum if we could not get to the Danish border and seek asylum. This means that we have closed the border on asylum seekers to Denmark. Is the Minister not worried that we will see illegal journeys to Denmark, as we see at other borders, the external borders of Schengen, where we see small rubber boats coming with people, that is, that it will be such scenes that we will see if people cannot legally come to the country and apply for asylum?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210131932	I think it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist knows that both myself and the government want to limit the number of asylum seekers in Denmark. So this carrier responsibility must of course be seen as an element in it, but of course in a situation where we as a country are quite under pressure and in a situation where border controls have been introduced. And it could be introduced if, for example, The Swedes introduce carrier responsibility, because then we could be put in a position where we would also use our carrier responsibility. It is not, of course, my wish that we should introduce a carrier responsibility, but we can get into a situation that is so serious that we can be forced to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132025	Well, that's not a limitation we're dealing with. If you cannot get to the border and apply to the Danish authorities for asylum then it is a stop. Then it will be impossible to come to Denmark and ask for protection if you are persecuted. So the Minister just has to confirm once again that you cannot come and apply for asylum, if you cannot cross the border then you can only cross the border illegally. And that is the problem I think the Minister will have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132054-2	Well, I can't answer sir. Rasmus Nordqvist more clearly than that if you have to apply for asylum in Denmark, you have to apply for asylum when you have your feet on Danish soil. You cannot stand in other countries, for example. in an African country, and say that one would like to seek asylum in Denmark. If you apply for asylum in Denmark, you must be in Denmark. So yes, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist is right that you can only apply for asylum if you have reached Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132119	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132123	The Minister must be aware that the Swedes have postponed their legislative process because, as I said from the floor of my rapporteur's speech, the Swedish Minister says that there is a need for a thorough and proper dialogue with the carriers, and we need a clearer legislative process. What is the Minister's position on the Swedish interpretation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132151	But I do not agree with the Swedes, and I am not in a number of things, for example. Nor in the way in which they conduct foreign policy. But I'm not going to interfere with this debate. I think we discussed that a great deal yesterday. And I have also had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions. However, when we implement this bill and ask for it to be put to the vote as early as tomorrow here in the Folketing, it is because we believe that it is enlightened as it is hearing and should. And yes, it is urgent legislation. It is never good to implement urgent legislation, but it may of course be necessary, and I see it as being in a situation where it is necessary to implement this as an urgent process.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132241	That is why the Radical Left and a number of other parties have also proposed a three-month review clause. This would allow the Minister to implement his legislation tomorrow and at the same time do as the Swedes and, incidentally, all other very ordinary democratic countries do a proper consultation process where you actually talk to the people who have to implement your legislation. Why is the Minister opposed to a three-month review clause?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132314-2	Because I don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132322	The next question is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132326	I do not understand why the Minister does not think there is a need for a review clause. On the one hand, it is said that this is a very short-term solution and, on the other hand, a number of people have said that they would actually have liked to have talked to the professional organizations, that they would have liked to have talked to the transporters. Does the Minister really think that the carriers themselves need to find out how they, for example, are doing this? avoid breaking laws? They say that it is at present the case that this law can lead them to act against the law. Do they really have to find out for themselves? Let us now say that someone will come looking for asylum in Denmark and say to these carriers: I just want to get to the border, I want to go right across the border to seek asylum. Then it is the control-command who has to say: you cannot get asylum in Denmark, because I cannot transport you to the border. How can we even apply for asylum under these conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132417	Well, I can tell Mrs Sandbæk that I have great confidence in the carriers. They can handle the rules at the airport, where it is airport staff who handle this set of rules. It is quite the same as if you are going to leave Schengen and I therefore have just as much faith that if you are employed by DSB or other carriers, you can, of course, deal with this set of rules. After all, there is no difference between working on a train and handling the set of rules, or working out at the airport and handling it. So these are known rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132456	Does the Minister not agree that there is a difference between whether you have come to an airport with your passport and travel documents and have been checked in and who has been able to prove who you are or whether you are getting on a train, where the train staff have not had the opportunity to do the preparatory work, for example? Is it not possible to see whether you are actually a fugitive or not a fugitive? Is there no difference at all between getting to an airport in Denmark and wanting to travel out of Denmark to a Schengen country or arriving from the outside and wishing to enter Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132533	No. For the employee who has to deal with the set of rules, the answer is no. There is no difference between working at an airport or working at, for example. DSB.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132542	There's been another couple of new questioners. Next in line, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132548	A reply by the Minister, which says that this is not needed, is, in my view, a bit arrogant to the many concerns that have been expressed in shipping companies, DSB and the road haulage industry. But she's gotta do it on her own with these organizations. I think that when there are so many questions that have been raised and when everyone in the debate has not been answered so far, even by the Minister, it might be a good idea to say: yes, a three-month clause could be a very good idea, because then we could at least pick up some of the problems without having to put up some fucking legislation. I would like to hear: if a taxi is crossing the border, will the taxi driver also be responsible for all this? 'Cause the payment's not gonna happen until later. Or is that okay? Then I also have another question: why does the government not solve the unresolved problems first before we have to press the button?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132648	Well, in relation to the last question, I don't know what it is, sir. Christian Juhl refers to unresolved problems. But with regard to the taxi, the answer is no. They are not included.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132701	I guess it's gonna be a good business to be a taxi driver down the border, I can figure it out. When I say unresolved problems, it is because in the last two hours we have been sitting and discussing in the Chamber, and I can see that the Minister was in any case physically present that spiritual presence I cannot answer for and there was a problem after problem with the people who are now to carry out orders from the Minister when the law is to run. And fortunately, there's a TV footage so you can reel it through. There are, in fact, enough problems to deal with. But I think that with this the Minister is just pushing the problem to Germany, and then Germany has to solve the problem. Is this a way of developing refugee policy in a spirit of solidarity?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132743	I guess it's gonna have to be sir. Christian Juhl's response to the Swedes if they also introduce carrier responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132754	The next question in the line is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132757	Thank you. The Minister said at one point, as I heard, that the government will introduce temporary border controls if Denmark is under pressure and it will then be necessary. So my question is: is it the Minister's view that Denmark is not under pressure as it currently stands?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132814	At least in relation to the Schengen acquis and the introduction of temporary border controls, we are not currently doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132822	I should like to ask whether the Minister is of the opinion that Denmark is under pressure today. Because if the Minister is of the opinion that Denmark is under pressure today because of the migratant flow and the flow of asylum that is to Denmark, is it not, if the Schengen acquis is to be ignored for a short time, a very good argument for introducing border controls, even if it is only temporary?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132843	After all, I cannot ignore the Schengen acquis and disregard the regulatory framework that we are actually introducing temporary border controls on the basis of. So we are not there right now when it is planned to introduce temporary border controls, but we can find ourselves in a situation where temporary border controls are being introduced, and in that case we can also find ourselves in a situation where we will take advantage of the responsibility of the carrier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132905	The next question is Mr. Nicolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132909	It was nice to hear that the Minister had great faith and confidence in the carriers. I hope that trust goes both ways. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister believe that the responsibility imposed on carriers by this bill lies within the recently negotiated contract between DSB and the State?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210132937	The question is now being asked of the Secretary of State for Transport and I must admit that my knowledge of the contract concluded between the State and DSB is at a level that is not so deep and complete that I will be able to reply to it in exactly the same way. But, on the other hand, there is no provision for us to compensate carriers on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133001	I'm sorry to hear that. I would also like to know whether, in this context, consideration has been given to the contractual relationship with the employees of DSB and the responsibilities they may be entrusted to them. Is it even within the remit of the DSB employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133026	Yes, it could be within the remit of the DSB employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133030	The next question is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133035	I'm not the Minister of Transport, but I can answer with one hundred percent assurance that it's not part of the contract with DSB. Then it should be clarified. I myself have been involved in negotiating it, so I know precisely that it is not in the DSB contract. However, I would like to ask: does the Minister really believe that the conditions that exist at airports, where people were talking about what Mrs Ulla Sandbæk also mentioned, come with passports and travel documents, which have been specified with Mr Sandbæk? And Mrs. and Social Security number and I have to give you are the same conditions as those that are, if you go by train, where you can buy a ticket on any platform at any station? Does the Minister really believe that there is no difference between the travel situations and that the staff who have to take care of it when we are talking about bus drivers and train drivers on DSB's trains are trained for it and will be prepared for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133132	I understood the previous question as a matter of compensation in relation to the DSB contract, and I replied that there will be no immediate compensation for DSB. It's just to get that little blurry wiped out. In relation to whether there is a difference between working at an airport and at DSB, I can say that, as regards the nature of the work on checking passports and visas, there is, in principle, no difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133203	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133205	No, but that's what's troubling. You could say that the airline employees are trained to handle these travel documents and check them. So the train drivers at DSB aren't. They are trained to check that the ticket is legal and so on, but they are not trained in this whole system of refugees and passports and identity checks etc. So does the Minister really believe that this is going to be a question of meeting the same requirements and that bus drivers and train crews have sufficient background to meet those of the staff at an airport?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133250	Yes, and especially when it is just introduced in the way we do it, where it is passport and visa to be checked. I believe that everything else equal is easier to see the nature of a passport and a visa than it is if, for example, you do. just need to display some kind of valid image ID. There it can as an employee of e.g. DSB is quite difficult to deal with, I'd like to admit that. But what we are talking about here is passports and visas, and it is quite easy to go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133321	The next question is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133324	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister about the specific situation, because we know that the employees must not stand on the platform in Germany and check, and it does not take very many minutes, from the train leaving the train station in Flensburg until it runs across the Danish border. If you sit as an asylum seeker on the train and have come to Denmark and then ask for asylum, what happens to you?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133352	Yes, if you have come to Denmark, you can apply for asylum in Denmark. If you are not in Denmark, then you cannot apply for asylum in Denmark. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133359	The questioner? There are no more questions. Do more people want to speak? Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. Would anyone else like to comment on the matter here? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133417	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF) and we can vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 22 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 77 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing as adopted. It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133600	There must be quiet in the hall! Please leave the Chamber in order. The debate is open. I shall start by giving the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210133610	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution on a new strategy for treating patients with tick-borne infections. Like the proposers, I am concerned that the Danes who receive a borrelia infection after a tick bite receive a diagnosis as soon as possible so that they can be treated as soon as possible. Having said that, I also believe that as politicians we should leave it to the right professionals and experts to assess which diagnostic and treatment methods benefit patients in the best way possible. I do not think that there are any of us politicians who, as such, are the great experts in this kind of rather technical field. The proposers believe that the test we use in Denmark for suspicion of borrelia is too uncertain. Therefore, the proposers propose a new strategy in this area to allow for the use of tests in Denmark other than the current test, the so-called ELISA test. In the comments to the proposal, the proposers refer to an article in Information back from 2010, when a number of mainly foreign experts criticise the test used in Denmark. Instead, experts in the newspaper article point to an alternative test, the so-called Western Blot test, which should be more precise when detecting a borrelia infection. As I said at the outset, the choice of the right method of diagnosis and treatment must be based on professional judgement. In Denmark, experts and experts have recently assessed which Borrelia test makes the best technical sense. Three medical companies in Denmark • Dansk Selskab for Infectingsmedicin, Dansk Neurologiske Selskab and Dansk Selskab for Clinical Microbiologi • have updated the Danish guidelines in this field by 2014. Against this background, the Danish Health Authority and the Statens Serum Institute note that there are already up-to-date and clear guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of borrelia. The guidelines thus also express a broad professional consensus across the three professional companies. Moreover, the guidelines are generally in line with similar guidelines in the other Nordic countries and in the EU, where the same test that we use in Denmark is also being applied. As I have been informed by the Danish Health Authority and the Statens Serum Institute, there are no tests that are completely flawless, either for that matter or for the other test, and therefore both the Danish Health Authority and the Statens Serum Institute also stress that the results of an ELISA test will never be able to stand alone when a professional has to assess whether a patient has borrelia or not. Patients' symptoms of borrelia, e.g. reddening around the bite plug will therefore always be part of the professional assessment. There are therefore clear and up-to-date guidelines expressing a broad and professional consensus in this area. It is the scientific assessment that the ELISA test has a proven high degree of sensitivity and is sufficiently specific to be used as a test for borrelia. The Danish guidelines are generally based on similar guidelines in the Nordic countries and Europe in general. At the same time, I would also like to say that the Danes must of course be quite confident that they receive the analysis and treatment that makes the best sense from a professional point of view. We can, among other things. ensure by creating the greatest possible transparency about the professional basis in this area, and therefore the government will also take the initiative during 2016 for an expert meeting under the auspices of the Danish Health Authority. Here Danish experts in the field, relevant professional companies, patient associations etc. discuss the Danish diagnostic and treatment methods for tick-borne infections. The expert meeting will help to create an even greater openness about the methods of investigation and treatment, all in order to ensure the greatest possible security for the Danes affected by a tick-eared infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210134102	We thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210134114	Thank you for that, President. Being stung by a tick and perhaps a few borrelia can be a very serious situation, and the long-term consequences of it can be very serious. It has become the case that we in nature are actually aware that we must be careful. The awareness of it has grown much, and it has not been long since I saw an article in which the headline was that the tick is the most dangerous animal in the forest. I live in the country, and I think about it myself and put on rubber boots and examine myself for ticks. And it always impresses me when I hear about citizens or friends and acquaintances who have been stabbed by a tick and have had symptoms and have become ill. For us Social Democrats, it is absolutely crucial that whatever disease is involved, the Danish people must have the best diagnostic opportunity, that is to say, that it will be clarified as soon as possible and in the best possible way what is wrong if something is wrong. Similarly, it is also our view that the therapeutic methods used in Denmark should be the best possible and those that are scientific evidence to recommend. And I understand from the Danish Health Authority and the Statens Serum Institute that the frameworks and recommendations you have today are actually updated and based on the best knowledge. The motion for a resolution here says that we want a new strategy. Of course, it collides with what is the opinion of the Danish Health Authority and the Statens Serum Institut, i.e. that you have an updated strategy from 2014 which is based on professional consensus and that it is updated. Let me just quote a few things from what is the clarification report on precisely borrelia infections, and it is therefore from spring 2014. There is exactly something about what the resolution is about here in relation to the ELISA test. And I quote: 'The detection of specific antibodies remains the first choice, and that is the ELISA test. And then it says: "It has not been shown that additional immunoblot methods improve the diagnostic accuracy... by measuring specific antibodies. I must therefore say that I think that the resolution misses what is professionalism and what are the recommendations, and therefore it is my firm belief that patients can be safe and calm in that what we are using here in Denmark follows the best recommendations. And, as the Minister for Health also mentioned, it is the three scientific companies for microbiology, infectious medicine and neurological diseases, in other words precisely those who know the most about the disease Borrelia, who have made these recommendations. In its main text, the resolution also calls for a strategy for faster treatment. Here I am sensitive to the fact that we can examine it further, and there I think that the Health Minister's proposal for an expert meeting next year is a very good idea. I am not aware of this and it may well be due to my lack of knowledge that it should be a major challenge that one does not get into sufficiently rapid treatment, but I think we need to discuss that. The last thing that is being proposed in connection with the motion for a resolution is whether or not other tests should be used. And here I am of the same opinion as the Minister for Health, i.e. that it certainly cannot and must not be me as the Social Democrats' health rapporteur, who should stand here in the Chair in the Folketing and say what tests are to be used. Here I want those who know better than the Socialists in general to make the decision and that it should be professionally and scientifically based. The Socialists very much hope that we will be able to discuss in the continued committee how we can possibly reach a joint report or report in this area and think it is a very good idea that, when the Ministry calls us together and among the stakeholders, we will have a discussion and also an update in this area during 2016. So I say in other words that the Socialists do not support the resolution, but are working constructively towards clarifying the parts that could make it possible for us to ensure in the future that we also get the best diagnostics and treatment for patients infected with borrelia.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210134630	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210134644	Thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing a motion for a resolution • B 25, a new strategy for tick-borne infections at the request of the Danish People's Party. And I welcome the Conservative People's Party, of which I am also speaking on behalf. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the Danish People's Party is raising the debate on how to ensure the best possible treatment and diagnosis of Borrelia patients. In recent weeks I have received a large number of emails from people who are either themselves affected by borrelia or who have family members or acquaintances who are affected by borrelia. I have answered some e-mails, and unfortunately I have not been able to answer them. But I would like to start by thanking the many people who have contributed with knowledge and insights... all the e-mails have impressed me. I share the authors' concern about tick-borne infections, and I also share the point made by the authors in their comments on the proposal that diagnoses should be made as quickly as possible so that patients can be treated as quickly as possible. However, the best possible treatment and diagnosis is not just about Borrelia patients; all Danish patients must be guaranteed the right to the best possible treatment and rapid diagnosis. Next year, the government will put forward a bill that will ensure that all Danes are entitled to rapid investigation and treatment within 30 days, whether you are a patient with physical diagnoses or mental diagnoses. In addition to the right to rapid investigation and treatment, it is essential that as a patient in the Danish healthcare system, treatment and assessment of high quality are offered based on an informed basis, as well as the methods used by health professionals must be consistent with the current guidelines in this field. Today, the so-called ELISA test is used as a contribution to the diagnosis of borrelia. I am not a doctor, nor do I have the medical background that provides sufficient competence to see whether the ELISA test meets the needs required by proper diagnosis. However, I have noted that the Statens Serum Institut, the Danish Health Authority and the three professional companies behind the clearance report, which was updated last year, share the view that the ELISA test is the most suitable for detecting specific antibodies for borrelia and coincides with the guidelines used by the other Nordic countries and the European Union for diagnosis. We have confidence in those reports from the Left. The practitioners have a distinguished and important task as the foremost, advanced part of our health care. Therefore, it is essential that the practitioners pay attention to the clinical symptoms that characterize a borrelia infection. A test does not do so alone, whether it is the ELISA test or the Western Blot test, just as it is of great importance that the practitioners play with the rest of the health care system both in the regions and in the municipalities to ensure patients an optimal treatment. The government, together with KL and Danske Regionser, has decided to present a comprehensive plan for the close health care, a plan that will contribute recommendations on how to avoid future patients falling between two chairs, but offered treatment in the right direction. It is a problem which is also addressed in some of the many mails I have received. Recently I read an article in the British Medical Journal from 3 December 2015 under the heading "Lyme disease: time for a new approach', focusing among others. how health strategies play an important role in the awareness of both risks and prevention, and both specialists and practitioners must be involved in gambling. And I share the point of departure that practitioners play a key role in the field of diagnostics, as well as the need for constant attention to be paid to prevention and information on borrelia. The comments on the proposal do not indicate which economy the proposers are laying the foundations for the implementation of a new strategy for tick-borne infections. There is therefore no description of the costs to be expected for the implementation of a new strategy, nor have there been any funding proposals. The proposal for a new strategy for the treatment of patients with tick-borne infections, as mentioned earlier, we have great sympathy with the Left, but when we do not support the proposal, it hangs, among other things. together with the economy behind the proposal, which, as I said, is not described. I mentioned earlier that the many e-mails have made an impression. On the left side, I would like to say that if we in the committee can agree on an alert or an expert meeting, as the Minister proposes, where there is a focus on also listening to the patient associations that represent the many people affected by a severe borrelia infection, then we would like to support that initiative and we would like to contribute to the promotion of dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210135142	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210135148	Thank you for that, President. Like the rapporteur of the Left and probably many of my colleagues in this Chamber, I have also received many mails on Borrelia during the last week. And I think that these are some serious events that people are telling us about. It is often people who for a long time have experienced not being able to get a diagnosis and have been throwing balls in the system. Many also say that they have ended up going abroad to find some kind of help and that it costs them dearly. There is no doubt that the stories and stories are very impressive, as the rapporteur of the Left said, but they are also really a reminder that we should look at whether there is anything we can do better. Because that's not the way any of us want to meet the Danish health care system. What must be the objective is that we should have the help we need and that we should have a diagnosis and a treatment that we can use. So I think at least this shows that something better can be done in this area. Like the rapporteur of the Left, I think there are good tactics in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. First of all, it has focus. I also think that it would be possible to look at parts other than those which deal closely with diagnostics and treatment, which is what is described in the clarification report produced by the various professional companies. There is also a very important element about prevention and information in relation to tick-borne infections. It is about the dissemination of knowledge, where we could actually do something more, I think. Therefore, maybe it's about finding out what we can do to lift the work on tick-borne infections even more. I, like many others who have said something from up here, am concerned that the Folketing should go in and choose specific methods. I am also not quite sure that this is what the Danish People's Party is calling for. I can see that the rapporteur is shaking his head. But this is a little understandable when you read the motion for a resolution. I have also heard a lot of criticism of the test being used today. It has also been questioned in the past whether the recommendation of the test that has been made has been neutral. I understand that is an old story, and there has subsequently been a process in which several people have been involved. Conversely, I have also heard the second method referred to being criticised for having the opposite problem, namely that it can produce false positive results. It is often a problem with such tests that they are not exact and that there will be false positive or false negative results. That is why it is extremely important to stick to the fact that the clinical is right, really important in this context, and it requires the training of doctors, so they are well prepared to carry out the task and know that there can be both false negative results in some tests and false positive results in others. This cannot be completely sure that the diagnosis of borrelia can be ruled out. In fact, I think it is a good idea for the Minister to suggest that the board can convene a kind of expert meeting, inviting the various parties in the field, and not least those patients who have lots of stories, and their stories can contribute to how we can do better in the future. I think that if we do not take that criticism seriously, the frustration will understandably grow, and I would like to see both the Danish Health Service and the rest of the health service better incorporate the patient's experience and all the knowledge they pick up when, of course, they take an interest in what may be the reason for the illness they are experiencing. Audience is incredibly important to ensure good health care. So we will certainly be very interested in a possible report on how to proceed with some of these elements. And I hope that the proposers will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210135613	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210135621	Thank you. First of all, I am also very sorry to hear about all the cases where people have suffered serious diseases due to borrelia. There are some terrible stories we have heard where the treatment has not helped, and we fully agree that we are looking at whether it can be done better. However, the Liberal Alliance does not find any basis for contradicting the assessment by experts and the Danish Health Authority that the current ELISA test does not work worse than others. On the basis of our current knowledge, therefore, we do not support the proposal to introduce a new strategy. However, we will follow developments both in Denmark and abroad. The ELISA test is also used in the other Nordic countries and in the EU, and overall the guidelines are the same. The proposed proposal is to introduce tests other than the current ELISA. The comments on the motion for a resolution refer to a test called Western Blot. The aim of the proposal is to speed up the treatment of patients. But what I have been told is that in the countries where the Western Blot test is used, it is most often for the purpose of an additional check in cases where the ELISA test has already shown a positive test response. Thus, the Western Blot test is mainly used to avoid false positive responses and thus to put patients into treatment for borrelia without having actually had borrelia. The introduction of Western Blot as a second test will therefore not affect those patients who have been tested negative and will therefore not provide more rapid treatment. When the Western Blot test is used as the first test, I have been informed that it, like ELISA, hits about half the times correctly. This means that using Western Blot as the first test will not allow patients to get more quickly into treatment. There is evidently a great deal of uncertainty about the known tests, and several patients experience unsatisfactory outcomes. It is the professional professionals who have to make professional judgements and not politicians. In further work, we should examine and examine whether the doctors are aware enough of the clinical signs and whether faster treatment can be initiated on the basis of clinical signs and what the disadvantages and benefits of initiating an earlier treatment are, although it should later be shown that the patient did not have borrelia. Similarly, we shall examine the extent to which the negative test result repeats the test after 2-4 weeks, which is the time that can pass before the antibodies can be measured in the said antibody tests. And we need to look at the impact this can have on faster treatment and whether it can reduce the number of patients with serious effects of tick bites. With regard to patients who have experienced better treatment abroad, we need to examine what lies in it and whether other countries can provide better treatment and, if they can, why they can, when the guidelines are overall similar. I think we need to take this up in the further work too, so I agree that we need to look at how we can do better, although we should not exactly have a new strategy in this area. The Minister's proposal for an expert meeting seems to me to be a very good idea, so we will also be listening to all the patients affected by this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210140028	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210140036	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have mentioned today, I have also received a lot of emails from patients who experience or believe to be diagnosed with borrelia and have very many consequences of it. Several of the patients follow the Danish health services misunderstood, and several have sought help, typically in Germany or Poland, and typically for expensive money. In fact, several people have also experienced improvement when they have sought help abroad. I would like to start by saying that, in this way, I and the alternative are in no way in doubt about patients' experiences, nor are they experiencing the symptoms they describe. But I think it has been a very difficult resolution to deal with because there are so many votes in this debate. What I have done is that I have spoken to various experts, and I have among other things. Called and spoken with Sigurdur Skarphédinson I'm sure I'm quite wrong about it, which is Denmark's leading expert on tick-borne infections and sits on what is called the Clinical Center for Vector-borne Infections at Odense University Hospital. I asked him what is up and down here, and what he said was that if anyone is sympathetic to the fact that this is a great challenge, it is him, and he fully acknowledges that we are facing a great task of getting better at diagnosing and getting better at treating those patients. So he doesn't disagree at all that there's a big job ahead of us. What he said in relation to the patients who go to Germany or Poland was that in many of these private clinics you use another test. However, as the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance also said, that test tends to produce false positive results, which means that patients may be diagnosed with borrelia, but perhaps something else is actually wrong. You then come up with a long-term antibiotic cure, which actually often takes some symptoms, because it antibiotics may, in a sense, knock down some of what you really fail. The problem in this is, according to the chief doctor here, that we actually sometimes have to treat in the dark so that we do not know what we are dealing with. This is, of course, a major problem, because we want to be very good at diagnosing correctly. The doctor said that he had great respect for both the patients and the symptoms, but that it is important that proper diagnosis is carried out. For what it's worth, if these patients are in a completely different situation and maybe something very serious. When I mention all this, it is simply to point out how seriously I have actually taken this resolution and this issue and how much we, in the alternative, would like to find a solution that would ensure better diagnosis and faster treatment. Because what remains, as I hear it, is something on which we all agree with the patients, the doctors and also the politicians. That is why, in the alternative, we fully support the need for the knowledge needed to be provided. For us, it is important that this work is carried out in cooperation with some of the best experts in this field, and here I would like to point to the Clinical Centre for Vector-borne Infections, which is a new centre set up a year ago. They're actually researching this, so I want them to be involved in further work. I would also like patients to be involved in further work, so that we can have joint support for this. A new treatment strategy may need to be developed, but in the first place we need to find out if there is a need to create a new treatment strategy. And we would like to encourage that work to get started. The Minister mentioned a committee of experts. We can support that. I myself have written that we could call for a committee to be set up to look at whether there is a need for a new treatment strategy and, if so, what it should be. In the first place, an expert meeting is also very fine. What is most important is to create a common alliance so that we can achieve the goal that we all have, namely to work towards the most professionally and clinically valid method of diagnosing and treating vector-borne infections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210140451	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210140501	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we cannot support the motion for a resolution, but, as several others have also mentioned, I have also received an incredible amount of e-mails and, of course, take to me the concern and also the mistrust that exists as to whether we are now doing things the right way. And I think we should take this seriously as politicians. As several of my colleagues have also mentioned, we are politicians and not doctors or researchers, and therefore it makes no sense for me to judge whether one test is better than the other. I have no grounds for that. And in this way, I think that this case is a bit like one of the other things we are discussing a lot at the moment, namely HPV, where there is also a fairly pronounced mistrust of whether we can now trust that what we are doing is right for people. There I think we politicians have a responsibility, and the answer for me is not that we breathe into distrust. The answer is that we take responsibility for making the system work so you can trust it. I think what the Minister is proposing sounds good, that is to say, to call an expert hearing. I would also like us to go further in this way, in the sense that for me this is really linked to the same thing, which was also my point when we discussed the priority institute, because we in the Radical Left believe that we need openness and transparency and therefore want us to have a proper research institute where all the assessments are completely open and transparent, so that we can have confidence in them. I believe that is our political responsibility. It may be that the Danish People's Party will help to work for it. At least I'd like to reach out my hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210140703	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210140712	Thank you. I think that a great many good things have already been said which show that this debate is one in which there are more common goods than there are things that are, like, different from each other. SF has of course also followed the debate over the last five years on the use of the so-called ELISA test in the treatment of tick-borne infections. It has been argued both that the German Western Blot is better and more broad-spectrum, and also that leading Danish experts in the field have personal financial interests in the use of the ELISA test. Both argue that consideration should be given to new forms of treatment. That is why we also have in SF sympathy for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. At the same time, however, we do not believe that it should be the Danish Parliament that goes in and defines which precise treatments the Danish Health Authority should recommend to Danish doctors, but I do not think that is what the Danish People's Party means either, as they clearly emphasise in their comments on the proposal that the proposers will not decide which test is best. We have the Danish Health Service for this, and therefore there should also be an arm's length principle between the legislation in here and what treatments are offered. Fortunately, I also hear, as I began by saying that there is a common interest in doing something further in this matter, and I think that there are, in fact, several different proposals in today's debate that can be taken into account in the further reading of the committee, which we, of course, look forward to in the SF. Then we could jointly find solutions to give a boost to the treatment of borrelia infections in Denmark. We owe this to the people, especially at a time when the number of borrelia infections is increasing and the small ticks are carrying more and more infections and parasites.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210140914	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210140931	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister and the rapporteurs for their involvement in the debate. Thank you for trying to get a step further. What I have certainly listened to when the various rapporteurs have been up here is that there is a problem. At first sight, I find it sad in a country such as Denmark, which in many areas would like to be a pioneer country. We want to be those who are only when something new happens, we want to move in a different direction, we are talking about innovation and new methods of treatment, and what do I know, but after all, we do not dare, without others showing the way. This may be where the Danish People's Party stands out in this area, because we would like to listen a little to the citizens who are addressing us, especially when it is as massive as it is here. I haven't just gotten e-mails in the last week. I believe that over the last five years there have been various issues. There are also incredibly many who have participated in several news broadcasts and have been able to tell about how they have not been able to get help in Denmark. They're actually being thrown around from one department to another. They have been tested with the ELISA test, which has been negative, and then they have gone to Germany to a specific clinic where there is in fact an expert in the field who advises other health authorities, among other things. in Finland, Italy and in many other countries. And when they've been down there, they've been tested. I would say that there are also many tests other than the Western Blot test. That is just what I am mentioning in the proposal. There are other tests, and they all have different sensitivity to what they show. But many of them are actually being helped. That is what I think we, as politicians, must also sometimes listen to and not just believe that the Danish Health Service and all of them can handle everything themselves, because then I am just saying: what the hell are we doing in here? Then we don't have to be here at all. I am listening to the citizens, and at some point I got it I have counted over 50 personal e-mails about people who have been affected by borrelia and who have been helped. Somewhere else it's called Lyme Disease. I also get enquiries from Norway, where it is a big theme. Here there is a doctor who has started to use some methods, which have then also been allowed by the Norwegian Health Board. And we can also see in English journals that it is moving. They say that if we want something in this area, we need a new direction. Could it not be fantastic if it were in Denmark that we said that we would try some things and set out the new direction? There are so many Conservatives here today who are not quite conservative about what you want to choose. I would therefore like us to listen a little to the patients who are getting better in other countries and to find out what is helping them. So many of the stories I hear are about capable people who get sick. I think it was Mrs Jane Heitmann who said this about the economy. In one of the letters I've been given, as I said, I've got some of them. Someone's writing about her husband. He has been to neurologist, dermatologist, rheumatologist, ear-nose-neck doctor, gastroenterologist, in an infectious medical ward and later again in gastroenterological ward. How much does it cost society? What does it cost society that we actually have younger people who cannot get to work because they cannot stand on their feet? That is the concern I have, and that is the concern I share with the people who suffer from this disease. It's some damn little animal that can cause these symptoms. Many people are asking about the clearance report. It is also the one who has been criticised for the fact that some of those who have helped to make it are those who have economic interests in the ELISA test. And this very thing with financial interests, we have also debated several times in this Parliament, in connection with the fact that we are conducting some investigations into whether or not there are financial interests in it. We have all on many occasions agreed that there should be watertight bulkheads and transparency and that there should be no economic interests. But exactly in this area, it's been there for years. I think we should take that into account. I think there are some things that shout to heaven when there are so many people who cannot get help but who have to go to other countries for help. I would have hoped, of course, that we could go that way and look at it, but I can be a little glad that we can take a step in that direction and set up an expert meeting and listen to some of those who have something to do with it. I think it sounds interesting with the guy from Odense, who I don't want to pronounce the name of. I think that we owe it to the citizens of Denmark who have a disease that they cannot be cured of for a proper investigation. It is no use having a quick investigation if they cannot I have been to meet some of these people who are suffering and who must self-medication, who must buy penicillin in Germany to take it at home. It cannot be right that only those who have resources and the economy can be dealt with. This is just my wish, and this is an attempt to see if we can't do anything for these people. And I am glad that we can go further and perhaps write a report on how to move forward and help those people, because we owe them that. We are sitting here for the citizens who are in Denmark, also for those who have a diagnosis that cannot be solved and who get help elsewhere. However, I thank you for the debate and I hope, as I said, that we can take it up in committee and have a report made so that we can take that step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141607	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there's one brief remark that's not on my board here. It's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141619	We Social Democrats very much share the concerns of the citizens in that they do not feel that they are being diagnosed quickly enough. But I would like to hear something from the rapporteur, because I do not think we share the same concern. At least I have a concern that the Danish People's Party does not respect professional knowledge and science and scientific results. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: does the Danish People's Party's Health Rapporteur respect the clarification report that came last year and the recommendations made by the clarification report?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141659	I think there is a lot in the clearance report that is very well done, but it is precisely this that they say that there is only one test that works. I wish I could say something there. They're also saying it can't test a hundred percent. I think it was the Minister or at least one who read out how sensitive it was. Then why not examine some of the other tests? This is a disease where you grope blindly with the diagnostics too, and we also heard the doctor from Odense say that there is a great task ahead. Why are we not trying to say that then we have to try something else too?
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141741	If the rapporteur has read the clarification report, she will see that it is exactly made every year to keep up with the fact that both diagnostic methods and treatment methods in Denmark are based on the best knowledge. As a Social Democrat, I believe that this is what we must offer Danish patients and citizens, and not what the Danish People's Party today says, namely that it is too bad that we do not dare anything until others have shown the way. Here I would very much like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that those who should lead the way are the ones who know the best and that those who are researching this area are the ones who compare what is being done in other countries, so that we can be sure that we are doing the best for all citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141828	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141828-2	Now Denmark is a very small country, so it is limited how many experts we have in certain areas, certainly when they are specific areas. I therefore believe that we should also listen to what is happening in the other countries, and much is happening at the moment. Perhaps that is where the rapporteur has not listened. Because a great deal is happening, and it is said that new guidelines are needed in this area, because we are facing a great challenge, also because we are getting more ticks that are becoming more dangerous to the individual, and therefore it is important that we focus on this. So we listen to them too. There are experts elsewhere than in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141902	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141919	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 15 December of this year. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Liselott Blixt, has the floor for the explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210141955	The Danish People's Party has raised this question as we see great challenges in the medical field, especially when we talk about general practice. We know that it is particularly in peripheral and socially disadvantaged areas that there is a shortage of practitioners. This makes it necessary for us to have a plan for the area, as it is untenable that people find it difficult to have time with one of the private practitioners. We therefore consider it necessary that we in the Folketing should address this issue and come up with solutions to address the challenge, and that we should ensure that everyone, wherever they live, can receive the same help when they are ill. That is why we have raised the question and I look forward to hearing the Minister's answers to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210142046	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210142101	Thank you for the floor. I am asked in the question what I can tell you about the lack of general practitioners, including the problems of getting general practitioners to open up practices in the outermost regions and socially disadvantaged areas of the country. After all, the issues revolve around a really important and topical issue that the government is very concerned about, namely our focus on creating growth and development throughout Denmark. Health is central in many areas, because one of the conditions for us to create growth and ensure development in all regions of the country is that we are able to create security and ensure that all Danes have access to high-quality healthcare. This applies in particular to access to general medical practice. What, then, are the challenges we are facing, and what is the status today? The first question we must ask ourselves is whether there are Danes today belonging to health insurance group 1 who are not registered to a doctor. I have put that question to the Danish Regions, and here is the short answer no. None of the Danes wish to be registered with a permanent practitioner who is not currently registered with a doctor. The Danish Regions have also reported that the regions carry out a medical examination every year. In this context, doctors are asked if they have the possibility of having more patients enrolled in the clinic, and overall, the existing clinics reply that, overall, they have room to be able to take in more patients. The 2014 inventory showed that they actually had room to take 273,000 more patients. So the current status, if we look at the total number of practitioners throughout the country, is that there is no shortage of doctors. But what does it look like when we look forward? Are there too few doctors being trained in the years to come? Here, too, the short answer is no. In Denmark we train historically many doctors, also by international standards, and an increasing number of doctors are expected in the coming years. Specifically, the medical prognosis prepared by the Danish Health Service suggests that the increase will continue towards 2035. In the period from 2015 to 2035 the number of specialists in general medicine is expected to increase by 31%. In 2009 admission to the medical school at national level was increased by 200 new places, and in 2015 it was decided to increase admission to the medical degree programme at Aalborg University by 50 seats. We can therefore answer no to the question of whether there are too few general practitioners overall, and we can also answer no to the question of whether there are too few doctors being trained. But are there not any challenges in getting medical practitioners anywhere in the country? The answer to that question is, in return, and unfortunately, an all too clear yes. There are problems, and that is not good enough. At present, in some parts of the country, it can be difficult to get practitioners to settle down in the area when a doctor chooses to stop to retire, for example. That's not good enough at all. And if we look at the age of practitioners, we can also see that some of them are about to leave the labour market in the coming years. Although the average age since 2014 has remained fairly stable at 53 years if we look at all general practitioners throughout the country, over the last 20 years there have also been significant age variations within the medical group. In 2014, there were several general practitioners under 40 years of age, but also significantly more doctors over 60 years of age. About one in three doctors was over 60 in 2014. If you dive a little further into the figures, you can also see that the average age of doctors varies slightly across the regions. Doctors in the Region of Southern Denmark are on average 52 years old, while doctors in the Region of North Jutland are on average 3 years older. If we zoom all the way down to the municipal level, you can see even greater variations. Unfortunately, we can also see that the average age of practitioners in the individual municipalities is about 60 years old. This applies, for example, to municipalities across regions such as: Dragør, Morsø, Lemvig, Langeland and Frederikshavn Municipalities to name some. But how do we ensure that in future it will also be possible to ensure that all Danes can be registered with a general practitioner, that young people want to work as a general practitioner wherever they need it? Here I will return to the government's focus on creating growth and development throughout Denmark. As far as I am concerned, it is also a question of creating the framework and incentives for young doctors not all to work in Copenhagen or in large cities, for example, to see a future for themselves and their families. in North Jutland or on Lolland or in other areas further away from the major cities. Here I am quite convinced that we cannot just look at health in isolation. It is just as important that lovers and spouses can get jobs, that there are good educational institutions and leisure opportunities for children, that there is a good infrastructure, that there is good Internet access, yes, many, many other things that we in the 21st century emphasize when we want to create a future for ourselves and our family. These are many of the things that we in the government will address with our strategy for growth and development for the whole of Denmark. If we look at health in such a narrow way, I would say that it is the regions which have the authority to ensure that everyone has access to a general practitioner. However, from a central point of view, we must, of course, support it and we must help to ensure that the overall framework is also in place. As a concrete example of an initiative that has already been launched, I would like to point out some of the amendments to the Health Act that we adopted together with the previous government, which entered into force on 1 September 2014. With the amendment of the law we received, among other things. established that the regions can offer the operation of general practice clinics to private operators other than doctors who can then run the clinic with employed doctors. It extends the range of opportunities for the regions to provide local medical coverage, for example. when a doctor chooses to retire. And for the young doctors, it allows you to work as an employee in a clinic if you do not want or have the opportunity to make a major investment yourself and own a clinic. The Danish Regions have stated that at present at national level ten procurement clinics have already been established according to the new rules and several are on the way. It is just one example of initiatives that can help to support medical coverage in all parts of the country. But it takes a lot more than that. The government has ensured that a number of initiatives have already been launched. We have among other things. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. kr. to a new pool for the establishment of medical and healthcare establishments. Healthhouses will be able to create strong professional communities and find good cooperation models across professionalism. Several doctors can work together here and work more closely with other professional groups such as: nurses. Larger communities can help to support the high quality and more efficient workflows, but they can also help to promote the recruitment and retention of doctors in general practice across the country. Fortunately, there are also many good examples of how decline has turned to progress. Last month I had the pleasure of visiting a medical center in Skjern, where they have made a good local solution under the given conditions. Skjern has just succeeded in attracting and maintaining a group of junior doctors who would like to work with other doctors and other health professionals. Funds for larger health houses, medical houses are one example of an initiative that can help support medical coverage. As another concrete initiative on the part of the government, I would like to mention the attempt that we are going to start now to look at the honour of doctors. With the experiment, it has to be, among other things. is being examined to see whether the doctors' fee package can be better combined so that it supports a greater desire for doctors to settle in the outlying areas of the country and in socially disadvantaged areas. A total of 187 million has been set aside. kr. to the trial in the period 2015-2018. In addition to the concrete initiatives that we have already decided, we also need to have a better overview of the challenges we face. For although we can answer 'no' to some of the initial questions I put at the beginning, unfortunately we can also answer 'yes' at the same time and say that we have a real challenge that we must address. Therefore, the government has also decided to set up a medical coverage committee with representatives from the state, the Medical Association, Danske Regions and the National Association of Municipalities. The Committee is to provide a better overview of the distribution of doctors in the broad sense, including doctors in hospitals, specialists and general practitioners, and to provide solutions for ensuring better medical coverage in Denmark. Another key element when it comes to medical coverage for everyone is to ensure that we use the medical resources in the best possible way, to ensure that the treatment is carried out at the right level all the time and under reasonable use of the skills available, so that doctors, for example. do not spend time working with things like other professional groups, e.g. nurses, as well as can perform. In this context, let me also mention that the government, together with the Danish Regions and not least the National Association of Municipalities, has agreed that we will set up a committee to come up with a plan for strengthening the close and coherent health care system. It is a clear purpose of the work that citizens in all parts of the country should be offered treatment and care of the same high professional quality. An important focus area for the committee is also that we have to ensure the right competences for the right tasks, so for example. The nurses are equipped to carry out the tasks of the future. For the government, it is important that we have practitioners in all parts of the country in the cities and in the countryside and for young people as well as for old people. As I said, we train a great many doctors, and there is also enough medical capacity overall, as I have put it. Unfortunately, however, all the doctors we train do not always work where patients need them most. We train the doctors to treat the patients, that is. All of us, all of us Danes, when we get sick, and that of course also requires doctors to work where patients need them most, and that we adapt our health system to patients and not vice versa. I have now presented a number of initiatives which we have in the pipeline from the government to help ensure a better distribution of practitioners. I would like to invite everyone here in the Folketing to work together on this important agenda. I think that this question is a very good opportunity for us to have a political discussion on the important issue, and I would also like to give a hand today that I and the government will maintain the focus on ensuring that all citizens have access to a general practitioner, and I will inform Parliament of the status of the initiatives that we have set in motion and will now launch. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210143358	Thank you, Minister. We will continue with the debate, and the first in the rapporteur's line is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210143414	Thank you very much. I was just beginning to get scared when the Minister said that there were no problems at all. However, the Minister concluded by saying that there were challenges. It sounds like we have enough doctors, but the inventory I have read from June 2015 - and that is the region's figures - shows that 116 practitioners are actually missing. That means, for example, that we have to do something about it. at Lolland should wait up to 5 weeks to get a time with a practitioner. It was not long ago, but it was enough before the elections that we, the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection, took a trip to Nakskov, which had problems with the fact that it took a very long time to get to a general practitioner, even though the region had opened a regional clinic down there. It goes without saying that with the great difference in how to ensure equal access to health care, we have some challenges in the future. A doctor can stop the number of patients by 1,600, but we can also see that there are doctors who have up to 4,400 patients in the areas where doctors are lacking. It goes without saying that there may then be a little bit of rush, and that is probably where they have the five weeks of waiting. After all, the main problems are in North Jutland and Lolland-Falster, and especially the areas that have these problems are also those that have the greatest challenges when we talk about health. That is where there are many elderly people, cronys and socially disadvantaged people, and that is where we can see that there are some things that need to be lifted. Because of these challenges, I myself have been on a tour of my own region. I've been out talking to the general practitioners, and I've been out on one day's internship in a medical center in Haslev. It was just one of these big health houses where there were several doctors attached and labs and nurses. I was lucky enough to be at the hearing when there were patients. I could get an impression of what the day was like, but also what it was like when a chronicler walked through the door. Then there was not just one thing you needed to talk about; then there were many things you needed to talk about. I have also been to two practitioners who actually disposed of their clinic, not because they retired, but because they felt they had lost some confidence in them. As they said, they had been happy with their work, and they liked the professionalism that was, but they didn't feel the same joy in the work anymore. I think we should also take that with us when we look at how we ensure that there is medical coverage. Because, as it is today, we also know that there are many ordinary doctors who are employed around our hospitals and who might have been out to have a clinic instead. I have talked to some about the reason why we may not be looking for the practices that lie a little further away. There is a culture that has changed; there are very many women who are becoming doctors now, and that is really nice, but we also know that culture is that they very often marry someone who has a higher position. That is precisely one of the reasons why we want state jobs to be relocated, but also why we are ensuring that we help find jobs for spouses. I have also spoken to some who say: why can't we be better at sharing outside numbers? How can we ensure that we can have a private practice with someone else and then at the same time have our walk in the hospital, so we have both? So there are actually some suggestions coming from doctors, even on how to help solve the challenge precisely in the places we are talking about. It is no longer than yesterday that we heard that there are four North Jutland health houses built by the North Jutland Region at a total price of 190 million. kr. They're collecting dust. Or I do not know whether they collect dust, for at least some specialists have come into them, ear-nose-neck doctors, etc., but the practitioners do not. Many of them would rather have their own clinic, and I think we should also find out what is happening since we cannot get the practitioners into the health houses on which money has now been built and spent. After all, we all want equal and free access to health care. We want everyone to be able to find out quickly so that citizens can be treated quickly for possible life-threatening diseases. We talk about this a lot, for example. The cancer area. But it doesn't really harmonize with the fact that in some places there are weeks of waiting to come to the doctor. I am therefore delighted that we can all be involved in this fight, as it is in getting doctors to these areas, and I am pleased that we can all take part in the proposal for adoption which I would like to read out here (on behalf of DF, S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF): Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that citizens in all parts of the country should have access to a general practitioner, but notes that, despite the attempts of the regions, there are challenges in recruiting doctors in certain areas. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government will continue and launch initiatives to support the appropriate distribution of practitioners across the country, including:: Establishment of a medical coverage committee to draw up possible solutions. Setting up a committee on close and coherent health care, focusing on among other things: geographical similarity in health. A pool of 800 million. kr. for the establishment of large medical centres and health centres. An attempt, among other things. to examine whether a change in remuneration can support the continued access of all citizens to a general practitioner. The Folketing urges the government to maintain the focus on ensuring that all citizens have access to a general practitioner and to inform the Folketing about the status of initiatives. • V 9).
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144056	A proposal for adoption has now been tabled, which is part of the further discussion. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrats, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144113	Thank you. It is therefore necessary to make a brief comment to the rapporteur. Now I am a North Jyde, and I will not use my speaking time as rapporteur in a moment to correct the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, but the rapporteur says that the health houses built in the North Jutland Region there are four members standing and collecting dust. I would just like to say that this is really not true. In the three houses there are general practitioners, either private doctors or regional clinics, and the fourth and last place there is a specialist in the house. It is just to say, as the Minister for Health also mentioned: these initiatives are put into the sea, and it should not appear as untrue as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says they just stand and collect dust, because they do not. They have patients every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144206	I would then question that, because it is something that was in the media yesterday. There are also people in the regions who have been out to comment on the organization of practitioners. People are wondering, and the organization of practitioners has actually withdrawn from the agreement. That's why people wonder why they don't get into the health houses. So I'm gonna find out what's up and down in this case. I know there are a lot of specialists. I have received a text today about which doctors are in the health houses and, as I could see, they were mainly specialists. But I would like to ask about it so that we can get the right context, because it is not because I am going to stand up here lying or speaking falsely. I am just referring to what I read in the media yesterday, and it was Denmark's Radio that had the story, and I would like to make that point. And there were, as I say, quotes from both the Regional Council and the Practice Doctors' Organization.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144302	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144304	We Social Democrats are very much in favour of helping the Danish People's Party. This is a press release issued by the North Jutland Region yesterday, and I shall see to it that the rapporteur is delivered shortly. So it is a question of three out of four houses where there are practitioners, and in the fourth house there is a specialist. However, it is also known to the rapporteur that there has been quite a harsh rhetoric between the PLO, the Organization of Doctors of Practice, and the Danish Regions, and that perhaps the organization of practitioners has not been those who have recommended their members as much as I would like as the Socialist rapporteur to take part in these health houses, which have been created on the initiative of the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144351	As far as I understand from the article I read yesterday and from what we heard in Nakskov, it is because it is often more expensive square meters for each private practitioner. This must also be looked at as a social democrat when we want them to go to health centres. But I will certainly ask some questions about the area, and then we will see what the situation is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144415	Thank you to the rapporteur and we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210144430	Thank you. This issue, this challenge, is, in fact, one of the greatest challenges we have in the health sector at the moment, i.e. to get doctors to live in every corner of Denmark, where citizens and residents also live. And what is the danger of that? Yes, the danger is that inequalities in health may increase, and this is totally unacceptable from a socialist point of view. For many years there has been a sharp focus on this challenge, both here in the Folketing and in the regions, and a concern in the 98 municipalities in relation to this area. Here in the Assembly Hall we took many debates, long debates back in 2013, when we had a change to the Health Act, as the Minister for Health also mentioned. Here the Danish Parliament gave some new opportunities to the five regions, which are responsible for medical coverage in everyday life, and we gave them new ways to go to ensure this coverage. I would just like to mention two areas. One was that we ensured that what is called a practical planning committee was set up in each of the five regions, and that there should be cooperation between the region, the municipalities, the professional organisations and the patient organisations. The second thing we did with the amendment to the Health Act was that we gave the regions an opportunity to establish regional clinics if it turned out that it was not possible for practitioners to take over empty and vacant practices. But the challenge is still there, even though we made these changes, and the prediction is that those challenges will also be there in the near future. After all, we all, including all of us who are members of the Folketing, live in the country, and some of us also live out there in the outermost part of the province, and I do not know if some people also live where there are particularly socially vulnerable residential areas. As far as I am concerned, I live out there in the extreme parish, and I know how crucial it is that there is medical coverage. It is true, as Mrs Liselott Blixt also mentioned, that when we visited Lolland-Falster and visited general practitioners it was a strong impression on a whole Health Committee. I think it struck us very much that I have at least quoted it many times since there was 5 weeks of waiting for a non-acute time with the general practitioner in Lolland. It's not okay. And why isn't that? Yes, it is because it does not provide the necessary security and confidence in health care, and what is, or may be, the consequence of it is that the disease of sick citizens is in danger of worsening. Here we have a responsibility to bear. I would also like to outline a few statistics on the field of practitioners, which are worrying, and that is that the number has actually been decreasing over the last few years, from 3.600 to now just under 3.500, that the average per year. medical practitioner is 1,600 citizens but very many are far, far above and that one in three practitioners is over 60 years of age. That's it. Seriously, that's it. After all, the regions are struggling every day to provide doctors and other health professionals with sufficient resources to solve their health problems. They have a sharp look at every corner of the region to ensure coverage with the practitioners. And what is it that the regions have to do well with? What can they trade with? What can they lure with? Yes, it is certainly our duty here in the Folketing to help set the framework for this. Attention in this area is great in the regions, and I would also like to say that creativity is the same. The local environments and civil society are also really, really active at this point in trying to make it attractive for doctors to travel to. It is actually the case that we have headlines on the front page of the newspapers when new doctors come and settle down. When the Social Democrats sat in government until a few months ago, we had a sharp focus on this. The 800 million. kr., which the Minister of Health mentions as having been set aside for health houses, was set by the former government. In the election campaign, we had many discussions about what we could do in this area, also in relation to whether we could do another honour for the practitioners in the outermost province. So it was a great pleasure that we expanded the number of medical students in Aalborg, because the intention and belief that they stay in North Jutland are present. I will conclude, and I would say that we need to find long-term solutions with very broad political support. But we also need to look at the short term, and here I am biting at something the Minister says, which is also extremely important for us Socialists, and that is how other professional groups can help to expand professional capacity in general practice. We look forward to continued good cooperation here in the Danish Parliament on this. We owe this to the entire population, and we owe it to them too, because social inequality in health will only increase if we do not solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145028	There is one with a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt, DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145031	It's nice to have such an iPad in which you can find the articles so you can comment and rebuke them. This is from Dagens Bygningeri with the headline "Doctor deselects North Jutland Healthhouses." Of the potentially 35 practitioners who are accommodated in the four houses, only four have chosen to establish themselves. That is what I referred to in my speech. It is just to tell the northern Jutland that there is some work to be done in North Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145100	Well, that's right, but the rapporteur said they were just collecting dust to quote the rapporteur. And then I'll just have to say it's not picking dust. In fact, I think it is a little unfair in relation to what is the task and challenge of the regions that the rapporteur, in some way or other, is demeaning that the health houses have been built. You've done it out of need because you have a challenge. I also know that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party is also not the one who has supported and encouraged the practitioners most to engage and play positively with. Here I refer to a debate, Mrs Liselott Blixt and I attended, on the medical days not long ago out in the Bella Center, where real, very many hundreds of practitioners were gathered. I think we should just take a look at that. We have a joint task here in the Folketing, and I think we should help the regions as much as we can, because there are citizens out there who otherwise suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145202	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145204	It is precisely that you are two different parties that have a different approach. I do not like the way in which the demands that were made here by the Danish Parliament to the doctors were met. It has been shown that when you have made some reforms it is both in the teaching and in the medical field that it will not help to pull anything down on their heads without having them with you. Of course, I believe that doctors should also be able to be constructive and be involved in a process and, as I read here, they have also been involved in the process of health houses. The question is, of course, what is happening, in that they cannot be involved. The fact that they collect dust was probably just the headline taken from the newspaper article, but I must apologise very much if the words I have used offend the rapporteur. However, we are working in a way and the rapporteur is working in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145255	That is absolutely correct. If I am to summarise how the Danish People's Party works in this case and how we work, then we are working for the citizens and for the patients and for their coverage to be as good as possible. And what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in this context takes into account, and perhaps whose case is spoken, are the practitioners' doctors'. I support the huge work that is going on in the regions every day to provide practitioners to all corners of Denmark. And when it is necessary, because there are no doctors who settle down on their own and buy a practice, you set up health houses and regional clinics. It's out of necessity. And that was what the Left and the Social Democrats and a majority here in the Danish Parliament allowed for with the amendment of the Health Act, where the Danish People's Party again skilfully resigned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145347	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more inscribed to short remarks right now. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145357	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Danish People's Party for raising the debate today about medical coverage in Denmark. This is an important debate, first and foremost because easy access to our general practitioner is one of the cornerstones of the Danish healthcare system. Like the authors of the motion, I have been in an internship with a general practitioner, and it is impressive, after all, when you are allowed to experience very close to what is a variety of tasks that the practitioner is doing. The GPs are the foremost advanced part of our healthcare system, and they therefore have a very special position and position. Although many of us today have easy access to our doctor, for example. through the medical path, via the phone or perhaps via a video consultation, it is crucial for treatment and diagnostics that we can meet with our own doctor face to face. Our health services are becoming increasingly specialized, and this is both good and necessary, but it makes special demands on the proximity that the practitioners also represent. I live in Faaborg on Midtfyn, and this is Funen's largest rural municipality. We don't have a medical shortage. We actually have full medical coverage. Why, you can ask yourself. There are certainly many reasons, but I believe that one of the reasons why we in our large rural community have full medical coverage is that the health committee gives priority to dialogue with doctors. The establishment of larger medical and health centres in the outermost regions, where it may be difficult to recruit, is one of the opportunities that we in the Left would like to support. This makes good sense, especially since the bill we are going to be considering tomorrow opens up the possibility for other professional groups to become part of those health houses, so that hopefully we can fill up medical houses which have so far been difficult for municipalities and regions to rent out. Other groups who can move in can, for example: be a clinical dental technician, an ergotherapist or a masseur or someone else associated with health care. But bricks don't do it alone. The government has just indicated that a medical coverage committee will be set up to make suggestions on how to ensure medical coverage throughout the country. The solutions are many, and it doesn't matter that you think out of the box, so all ideas come into play. Changed remuneration and focus on chronic patients in socially disadvantaged neighborhoods are among the many opportunities that we on the Left look forward to testing. In the future of Denmark, we will experience more runners who require both treatment and follow-up, just as the demographic composition of the population shows that we are getting older and older. And it gives more complex disease photos. We have already seen what it presents of challenges when, unfortunately, elderly medical patients are all too often on the corridors of the country's hospitals, free to watch passersby or close up and down washrooms. It's not okay. The government, together with KL and Danske Regionser, has taken the lead in setting up a committee to look at how to ensure a more coherent healthcare system in the future, so that we minimise both the risk of patients falling between two chairs, but also, so that we get a look at how we deal with the challenges posed by geographical inequality. And that's what we need. There is a joint adoption which we in the Left can fully support. Once again, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the debate on future medical coverage in Denmark. This is an essential political focus area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145737	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no entry for short remarks. The next speaker as rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210145746	Thank you for that and also thank you for the initiative of the Danish People's Party from me. I fully agree with the point made by several speakers: access to a doctor is one of the crucial points in ensuring equal access to health and thus also part of the solution to the great inequalities in health that we see. It is, of course, an inequality which is both geographical, as the rapporteur of the Left has said here, but which is also social, as the question says. Even when it comes to access to general practitioners, we see the difference, both in peripheral areas and, in fact, in socially disadvantaged residential areas, and I think that is an important point. This applies to North Jutland, and it also applies in Copenhagen NV, where I myself live, that there is a shortage of doctors. We have the advantage that it is not so far, for example. Amager or other, but nevertheless we see a concentration of doctors in resourceful areas and in the areas near the major cities. Part of the problem is surely about challenging the doctors at their choice, in relation to where they settle. It is quite obvious, as many have said, that if there is a waiting period for a normal time of more than 5 weeks, then the offer is just lower than it is for anyone else who can get to quickly. Five weeks means a great deal if you are ill and cannot get to work, or if you have some serious symptoms of a disease in which treatment is to be started quickly, and that is why it is of course not okay, although we know that fortunately we do not have the problem that no one is standing completely without a doctor. I also think it is important to remember that it is not only in general practice that we have a problem. This is also true in relation to other specialities where, especially in the case of the outermost regions of many of the hospitals there, we have a major recruitment problem, and we must remember, when discussing medical coverage, that this also applies to other specialities. We are also behind the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party started by reading out. Many of the initiatives that have been listed have, even in the past, helped to agree with the former government, and some new ones have also been added, among others. This medical coverage committee, which I think is a really good idea. I think it is important that in this work we have respect for the great work that many of the regions that have this issue close to life have already done. Large, comprehensive plans have been made, initiatives have been set in motion, experiences have been gained, ideas have been made, and it is of course, I think, natural to build on them and involve the regions closely in this work. I also come across, when I'm around like many of you, that the regions themselves also tell that they really are experiencing some barriers, so that they can get on with this work, and it will be obvious, I think, to take it with them. One of them, which I think the Socialist rapporteur has also heard about, is, of course, one of them. on the distribution of outside numbers, where I think it would be possible to discuss whether we are doing it the right way today, or we actually have a tool there that we could use. There is also the issue raised by several speakers, which concerns the ability of the regions themselves to step in if there is not a doctor who wants to settle down. It is not quite right, as the Social Democrats' rapporteur said, that the regions can do just that today. There is, of course, a demand today that you first let it go in the tender for a private player, such as Falck. We also, I think, have a Norwegian player on the field at the moment. I think it is strange that in this way a very strict order has been established in the legislation. I would like the regions to have the opportunity to set up and run medical clinics themselves where there is no medical practitioner who will take on the task himself. It is another proposal that could make the legislation more flexible and create a better framework. By the way, I myself recently spoke to one of the doctors working in one of Falck's clinics, and he said that he simply did not understand why it was Falck who was supposed to be his employer, why it was not the region, because it simply meant that some money had to be made for Falck and thus it became more expensive. I also think the discussion about other professional groups is very interesting and very important. There are many professional groups that I think would be able to contribute to that, too, today too, but perhaps even better for general practice to be able to work more quickly. I myself have suggested in the past that a special special training for nurses could be looked at in relation to general practice, which would enable them to carry out more tasks. I don't know if this is the right model, but I think that's the kind of thing we should look at. All in all, I am really glad that something is happening, has done it for a long time and still is doing it in relation to this major problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210150257	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210150307	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising a very relevant debate on the lack of doctors in the outermost regions. And then I would like to thank the Minister for inviting us to a wide-ranging cooperation on solving this challenge, because it is a challenge. Although today there are approx. 35,000 general practitioners in approx. 2,000 independent medical practices in Denmark, it is a well-known problem that there is a shortage of doctors in the outermost regions. It is appropriate to make an effort to ensure that all citizens have as easy access to a general practitioner as possible. The Liberal Alliance would like to see a committee set up to analyse the matter and propose possible solutions. We have argued in the past that financial incentives can help motivate doctors to go to the outermost regions, and we would like to see an attempt being made to test whether increased fees for doctors in the outermost regions can remedy the problem. However, a number of doctors have indicated that opportunities for spouses and children are of great importance in the choice of practices in peripheral areas, so it might also be relevant for a committee to consider the possibilities in this respect, as the Minister also mentioned. In addition, we would like a committee to look at the possibilities and consequences of dismantling the planetary external numbering system, i.e. whether it would make it more attractive to be a doctor if one did not regulate down to the smallest detail, how many patients a doctor may have or must have, whether he must share his practice with another doctor, whether he must enter into company with other doctors, whether he must move 10 metres down the street, etc. Perhaps more doctors could benefit more from being a doctor if they had a little more freedom in their daily activities. Then it will undoubtedly also have a positive effect if it is opened up that premises in health houses can be rented to a wider circle of people associated with health care. It could make it more exciting and professionally attractive to move to outlying areas if a professional team is assembled under the same roof. At the same time, it will provide better service to citizens that several specialties are assembled in the same house. And, by the way, it could be good for the municipalities to get an income instead of having empty rooms. So the Liberal Alliance supports the adopted text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210150600	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no too brief remarks, so we will continue to speak with Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210150610	Thank you. As we have already discussed, and as several have mentioned, it is of course a problem that increasing urbanisation means that there are more small and medium-sized cities that have difficulty recruiting new doctors when the old ones stop or leave the city. The problem is not, of course, that too few doctors are being trained, although doctors currently have an unemployment rate of 0. The problem is to a large extent the large number of doctors who are specialists in general medicine who choose to stay in cities rather than move out and choose to stay in hospitals rather than settle in general practice. I spoke to Christian Freitag, the chairman of the PLO, who showed me a very fine graph, which yawned a lot, namely in the straits between how things are going with the practitioners, where things are going down, and how things are going with specialists in general medicine in hospitals, where things are going upwards. So we have a challenge in getting specialists in general medicine to choose general practice. As we have heard, there are several examples of doctors, for example. North Jutland, West Jutland, West Zealand and Lolland, who have three times as many patients as the common one. And, as the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten mentioned, which I also think is important, this is not just about the outermost regions, but also about the social problem, because it affects the socially challenged areas. The Minister and the government have played out some concrete initiatives, and we think in the alternative that it is positive that the government has set up a medical coverage committee and that of course the general practitioners are represented on this committee. And when we think that the doctor's attitude is really important, it's about that's also one of the things I talked to Christian Freitag about that the practitioners have no desire for large medical houses. A study has been carried out in the PLO which indicates that it is actually the optimal situation for them to sit 2-3 men in a medical center. There are not many practitioners who want to be, for example. 10 or 12 doctors in a doctor's house or in a health care center. And it is of course important for us to know in relation to the forward-looking strategy. Compared to the proposal to introduce a bonus scheme where 187 million will be spent. kr. To make it attractive for doctors to settle in the province, we are more sceptical in the alternative. We believe that financial incentives may serve as an aid for a limited period of time, but it should not be because of the economy that a doctor chooses to settle in an outlying area. But we recognise the experiment and look forward to seeing what the results will be. Many simply opt out of working in the province because there is no work for their partner; because there are no schools; because there are not very many offers in relation to association life. That is one of the points we have already made, and it is also one of the points made by the PLO in the annex. It is interesting, of course, what we heard earlier: that more and more women doctors are coming. I think it is now 70%. of the medical students who are women. This in itself poses a gender challenge, which is a completely different aspect of this debate, but which I think we should take into account. On the one hand, it is a question of whether we want our future doctors to be primarily women or, to such an extent, women. On the one hand, we have a problem if we buy the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party's paragraph that women marry up, because it will be difficult to find enough men who are more educated. So maybe we should also work on the performances in relation to partner elections. What we in the Alternative mean in relation to this problem with doctors in the outermost regions is that this is not just about an occupational group; that is also what I am trying to say, but is also very much about the fact that we must make it attractive to settle in the outermost regions at all. And when we see the recent cuts in education and culture, it is worrying in our optics because it is actually some of the things that make families choose to settle in the outermost regions; it is, in fact, when there are good educational opportunities and when there are good cultural opportunities. And we think we should pay proper attention to this in future work. So when we discuss how to meet medical needs throughout Denmark, we also have to raise our eyes in helicopter perspective and discuss how we generally make it more attractive to work and live throughout the country. As has been said several times, there is no doubt that it is a major problem if there are not enough doctors to provide general medical care. We look forward to the further debate. We take this area very seriously and will follow it closely, and we thank the Danish People's Party very much for raising the debate and also the Minister for actually taking the problem seriously. Because I and the alternative believe that new thinking and entrepreneurial solutions are needed if we are to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210151047	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210151054	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the initiative for this debate, which I see as a major concern for all of us. In the Radical Left, at least we find it important that there should be doctors throughout the country, and we therefore also look with concern at the developments that have taken place. We took an important step when we were in government when, with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen in the lead, we doubled our attendance at medical education in Aalborg. Unfortunately, however, we do not believe that we have solved everything by doing so; on the contrary, it is a great challenge and, as I think the Socialists have said, it is one of the biggest problems we face. This requires that we think new things and that we get to think completely out of the box. In the Radical Left we will therefore also go into this by saying that we have no sacred cows. I think it may in fact be useful both to look at the outer numbers, as the Liberal Alliance also mentioned, but it could also be to think further in relation to the common health houses, to look at the specialty plans, and there may be other things that could be an instrument here. I do not have the solutions now, but we in the Radical Left would like to take it up in the Danish Regions and continue the discussion there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210151223	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210151231	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for addressing a very relevant issue, namely the problems of getting practitioners to open up practices in the outermost regions of the country and in socially disadvantaged areas. In the SF we don't believe that there are any snapshot solutions to the problem... and I hear that there aren't so many others here thinking... if we want to preserve the person centered family doctor in general practice as we know it. However, I would like to point out a number of factors which should help us at least a little further. Today we have a very specific problem with the lack of general medical practitioners who want to reduce themselves in general practice. When you are in a situation of shortage, it mainly affects the outermost regions of the country and the socially disadvantaged areas, because the outer numbers there are less sought after. And there may be several reasons for that. On the one hand, it may be difficult to get the spouse and any children out if you as a family have no connection with the area in advance. On the other hand, the external numbers in these areas are often burdened by many patients because doctors are already lacking, and at the same time there is often a strained patient group with a multiple of both health and social problems. So it's gonna bite itself a little bit in the tail. What can we do about it? First of all, let us be clear that we cannot solve the problem here alone from Slotsholmen. A solution will require cooperation and joint active action from both the PLO on the one hand and the Danish Parliament, the Ministry of Health, Danish Regions and KL on the other. And without flexibility and cooperation and willingness to negotiate on both the political side and the PLO, we cannot do so. But solutions need to be found because the citizens of Denmark have the right to be able to reach a family doctor within a reasonable distance. Secondly, it is important that, as a society, we motivate more medically trained people to become general medical practitioners. Thirdly, it is important that we ensure that the educated general medical professionals want to work in general practice. Unfortunately, the latter is far from being the case today, when, as far as I am aware, we have 800 graduates who have chosen another medical career. Fourthly, the PLO and the Danish Regions must, at least for a transitional period, identify some transitional models or define some specific external numbers, for example. can work with a 4/1 model or a 3/2 model, where as a doctor you may be responsible in your practice 4 days in Aarhus and 1 day in Djursland. Fifthly, I also believe that we should look without prejudice at the possibility of financial compensation during a transitional period for doctors who are aiming to settle in an outermost region or a socially disadvantaged area. And precisely here, where there may be some patient groups with major health and social problems, perhaps we should also look at the highest limits of the PLO agreement, because we know that there are some patient groups that need more time and consultation, and the doctors do not have that time today. So we cannot do this if we are seriously to help patients and motivate committed and skilled doctors to settle in an outlying area or a socially disadvantaged area. At the same time, municipalities and regions, in cooperation with the PLO, must try to create a framework for medical activities that makes new young doctors want to settle down with their entire family. This requires, among other things, that: a possibility for the accompanying husband or wife to work, and I also believe that it will require a better professional framework in the future that will provide better and perhaps cheaper opportunities for colleagues in either medical centres or health centres. I know that the latter has been tried with varying success in several places, but the experiment should be done again and then possibly accompanied by some of the other solutions mentioned. Otherwise, we will support the proposal for adoption that lies behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210151655	Thank you. There were no brief comments. I should just like to ask whether the Minister for Health and the Elderly wishes to speak on this occasion. The Minister does. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210151713	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the question here today and, above all, to thank all the parties of the Danish Parliament for one, I think, very good and constructive debate. As Minister for Health and the Elderly, I am very pleased that we in the Folketing can work together on this important agenda, and I would also very much like to welcome the broad support that exists for the government's initiatives to ensure a better distribution of practitioners, including the initiative with the pool of 800 million. kr., which we have set aside for the establishment of medical and health houses, trials with fee packages targeted the outermost regions and socially burdened areas of the country, our decision to set up a special medical coverage committee and our work with the municipalities and regions to focus on the development of the close and coherent health care system. There is a need for solutions in the short run, but there is indeed a need for solutions in the long run. I very much agree with the rapporteur I think it was from the Enhedslisten who pointed out the importance that we are not only focusing on the distribution of general practitioners, that it is not only here that we have challenges, but that they go beyond it. This is also the reason why the special medical coverage committee set up by the government will be composed of representatives from the State, the Medical Association, the National Association of the Municipalities and the Danish Regions, not only to focus on the distribution of general practitioners, but also to provide an overview of the distribution of doctors in the broad sense, i.e. doctors in hospitals, specialists and general practitioners, and thus to come up with solutions to ensure better medical coverage. I would like to sign for all the positive comments on the work we have now started. I look forward very much to further cooperation with Parliament's parties in the future. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210151945	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended and the question has therefore also been closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 15 December 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20151210152006	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 11 December 2015, [kl. 10.00]. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
