ParlaMint-DK_20150311130015	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Morten Østergaard): Bill no. L 159 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities. Minister for Education (Christine Antorini): Bill No. L 160 (Proposal for a law on the provision of youth education abroad). Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen): Bill no. L 161 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general housing, etc.) and the law on individual housing aid. Transport Minister (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 162 (Proposal for a railway law). Climate, energy and building ministers (Rasmus Helveg Petersen): Motion for a resolution No. B 90 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Denmark's ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol). Mai Mercado (KF) and Mike Legarth (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 91 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the sharpening of penalties for the theft by the simultaneous disruption of the operation of general means of communication, etc.). Henning Hyllested (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 92 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the restoration of the legal status of taxi services in public services (OST)). Mike Legarth (KF) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 93 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution extending the second stage of the Kalundborg motorway). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). Members of the Folketing Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior: how will the government, in the light of the current European debate following the Greek elections, support the fact that there is a realistic solution to the debt issue in the EU countries most affected by the crisis? • F 19). The question has now been dropped. I would like to make one comment on today's agenda: with the agreement of the Minister of Transport, the co-decision of L 141 and L 142, which are listed as items 2 and 3, is deleted from today's agenda. Instead, the legislative proposals will be dealt with first on Wednesday 18 March 2015 after Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130221	I shall begin by telling you that those of Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt under No. Questions to the Minister for Transport, Question No 21 and 22 S 835 and S 836 are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author and the questions are put to written answer. Then we can get to grips with the first question, which is for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and that is what Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130251	Thank you. And the question is: is it good enough for the government when, according to figures from the Ministry of Finance, there are over 17,000 Danes for whom it costs money to take a job in relation to being on public support?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130303	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130305	There is, of course, a custom for thanking you for the questions, but especially today I would like to make a point, because we have had the opportunity to discuss this before, and it gives me the opportunity to repeat on behalf of the government how our policy has just addressed that issue. Above all, however, we need to dwell on the issue raised, namely the 17 000 to 18 000 people we are talking about. Here we have to say that they are, after all, some who are Jacob Jensens's expectations of how people act because they actually work. And there we are at least happy in the government that the Danes feel that they are working because they want to support themselves. But that does not change the fact that, of course, we need to pursue a policy to obtain better incentives, and we have done so with our tax reform. Therefore, if you have to allow yourself to break the form, it is exciting when we are discussing it, whether we might then be able to get an answer today, and Mr. Jacob Jensen, on behalf of the Left, will tell us where the ceiling for cash aid is going to lie, what is going to happen with the employment allowance and where the money will come from for all the intentions we hear from the Left, which is probably the reason for the question here too. I hope that we can have a good discussion on this today. There is certainly reason to give some of the answers that we all miss from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130415	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130416	I have to promise that the Minister will be on the offensive today on all platforms. That is good, because it makes it possible for us to have this discussion about how things in Denmark should look, including in the labour market. I note that yesterday we had a Prime Minister who was in the Chamber for Question Time in the party leader's round. That is when the Prime Minister of the Left replied, and I can quote: 'And why is it that the Left does not just calmly admit that it was wrong when it was said that it was not worthwhile to work?' Because it pays to work. That was the Prime Minister's reply to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen here in the hall. Then the Prime Minister comes outside the Chamber and is confronted with roughly the same question by the press, and to that the Prime Minister answers: "You can always discuss the concrete gain. There is a very small group of Danes that we have reduced to 14,000 who do not have a concrete gain by going to work. So inside the hall, the Prime Minister says it's worthwhile to work. Outside the Chamber to the press, the Prime Minister says otherwise. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior agree with the Prime Minister in the Chamber or outside the Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130525	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130527	I fully agree with the Prime Minister in everything, because we are on the backs of the same policy. And this is a policy which has significantly reduced the number of Danes who have a relatively small gain from going to work. And it is a tax reform that will be phased in over the next few years and thank you for your cooperation on it. So it is not, of course, because the problem is foreign to us, and of course it may sound violent that there are some people who seem to lose money going to work, and when someone gets into that situation, it is partly because in some cases the immediate financial gain is eaten up by transport costs to and from work. But I hope that in the Left too we think we should take work, even if it requires transport and it helps to eat part of the gain. When so many work anyway, it is because of course they hope that things can develop over time. Therefore, I just come back to the fact that we have made tax reform, which has significantly reduced the number of Danes with lower profits by going to work, lower incentives for it. But what does the Left want? Where is the ceiling for cash benefits to lie? How much should the tax be increased and who should pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130629	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130630	So the Minister for Economic Affairs agrees with the Prime Minister when she says outside the Chamber that there are a larger number of thousands • she says 14,000 • for whom it is not financially worthwhile to work? Then the Minister says: yes, but we can then hope that they will get a better job at some point. But the fact is that, and I understand that too, the Minister for Economic Affairs answers and finds that there are people in this country who go to work and pay to do so. Is it fair to those who actually have to bring money from home to take a job, to keep the wheels running, to get up in the morning, to smear the famous liver errands and make an effort, that they actually pay to do so? We in the Left do not think this is fair, and that is why we would like to go further along the path that we have really gone with the government when we made the tax reform. It lasted hard, but we got it through so that everything else could actually pay better to work after, but isn't that something that the Minister will take up, so that we can make it more reasonable for those people who are currently on the labour market but who are paying to be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130727	Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130729	Well, it's a relevant and exciting discussion. We just have to remember that the 17 000 to 18 000 we are talking about are some who are in employment today. And, as I understand the policy of the Left, it is not about doing anything for them, but rather about doing something for all those who do not Claus Hjort Frederiksen think are doing too well when both parents are on cash benefits and why benefits have to be cut. That is why the question is: who is going to have less social security in Denmark? What families of children are to be brought back into poverty after this government has helped them out of poverty? What are the benefits to be taken away from them? Where is it supposed to be? Well, I think it would be fine if Mr. Knox didn't. Jacob Jensen, who has been concerned about the question today, could explain it, for so far the answer is in the wind. But the only thing that is certain is that by taking people's benefits away from them, you don't help a single one of these 17,000-18,000 employees to get more money out of going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130822	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130824	Now it is the case that the Minister for Economic Affairs reads the proposal of the Left as a certain master reading the Bible. We have just said that we want to make it more attractive for those in the labour market, too, by reducing the tax on small incomes. This means that those who are in work also get a greater benefit from being there, but at the same time it also makes the difference between being on the labour market and outside the labour market greater. That is what our policy is about, and that is what we are animating, but as the government cannot see, when the Prime Minister is feeling the Prime Minister who was outside it costs them money to take a job instead of not doing it. That is not good enough, I would say to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311130907	Well, we agree that it is important to lower the tax on work so that more people get more out of working, especially those at the bottom of the scale. We've made an agreement on that together. When it is fully phased in, there will also be fewer in the category we are discussing here. So that's good and right, we've done something about that. There is no doubt about what the Left means when you talk about doing more about it. What is clear, however, is that the only concrete promise that the Left has made to the Danes is that the craftsman's allowance should continue. And how it's going to solve this problem, I find it very difficult to see the connection to, and that's why I'm asking. What we can at least see is that for those who are today going to work, even though the incentive is relatively low, it does not make any difference what they have, either at the beginning or at the end of the month, that the Left will cut benefits for the families of children in this country that have the very least, by creating a so-called modern cash aid ceiling which, unfortunately, we cannot learn more about than it is modern.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131002	That was the last answer to question 1. We move on to question 2. It's still gone to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and it's still gone by mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131012	The question is: what reforms will the government make to ensure that work always pays off?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131019	Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131021	Thank you for that question too. As I have said, it is important for me that it is worthwhile to work, and it can for the vast majority of people today, and with the tax reform it means that the economic benefits of working are strengthened for everyone. As a result of the reform, we are reducing the group of people with relatively weak economic incentives to work significantly in the coming years. For example, they fall by a net compensation rate above 80%. from approx. 330,000 in 2013 to 250,000 when the tax reform is fully phased in, i.e. a significant reduction. The government's policy in other areas also supports more people entering employment rather than receiving transfer income, for example. the reform of cash benefits and the reform of early retirement. In the coming years, we will see a boost in employment as reforms are fully phased in, and it will be an important task to monitor that those reforms have the full and intended effect, otherwise we will have to be prepared to react and adjust the reforms. I think that the crucial thing here is that we expect all Danes to contribute with what they can, even if it is a job that does not differ significantly in terms of pay from their possible transfer income. In order to live in a country with a high level of social security, it is necessary to take the work that is to be done, and therefore it is also a major priority for the government that people are actually available for the labour market. What is left in the dark is what the Left will do, because we are talking about a so-called modern ceiling on cash benefits, where, by reducing people's benefits, we will see if we can get them to go to work. It's just that I'm saying that at least we disagree with Mr. Simpson. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, who has said on behalf of the Left that the problem in this country is that the poorest families of children have too much money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131155	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131157	Well, I'm not sure that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen has put it exactly that way, but I am glad that the Minister is referring here exactly the issue and the core of the matter, namely that even after the tax reform that the Left helped to get through and made more ambitious than what was planned has been phased in in in several years, a quarter of a million Danes are still missing for whom there is little financial incentive to take a job. Given the size of the welfare society and we are pleased that it is one of the world's largest public sectors and the revenue that needs to be generated to make it run around for future generations too, we know that we need people to make an effort on the labour market instead of not doing so. There is therefore my view and the view of the Left that there should be an incentive, an economic incentive, to make the difference and take the work, move a little longer than might otherwise have been possible etc. That is why we are puzzled when, in all kinds of other areas, the Minister speaks very positively that we now have to make new reforms and so on. etc. that he then cannot see that even after what we have already done together, when it has been phased in in in many years, i.e. 6-7 years down the road, a quarter of a million people are still missing for whom there is a weak financial incentive to take a job. I am surprised, but perhaps that is why, in his previous reply to me, he said that he agrees with the Prime Minister in everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131325	Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131328	But what's gonna be the challenge for mr. Jacob Jensen today is, after all, getting people to understand how the fact that a great many people in this country work, despite having a relatively low incentive to do so, and that, through the tax reform, we have purposed to ensure that this group, fortunately, is getting smaller and smaller, must be affected by making the poorest families of children poorer. Because we know only two things about the policy of the Left in this area, and one is that you think that the poorest families of children, where both parents are on cash benefits, those who have the most difficulty in their lives in advance, should be poorer, how much can we not be told, but poorer should they be? And then we know that you want someone like me to be able to get subsidies to clean up at home or get a craftsman's allowance, but none of that, sir. Jacob Jensen talks about today, we can get concrete answers to. The government's answer is clear: We have made a tax reform which significantly improves the conditions of the Danes, who earn the least, and gives them an increased incentive to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131426	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131427	What the Left has pointed out in the debate that has taken place, and also quite topically, is the fact that if you are a married couple with three children, you can all receive more than DKK 450,000. in public services, both cash benefits, housing insurance and other things. We think this is quite generous when we take into account what people can get when they enter the labour market and get one of the low-wage jobs which there are and which, moreover, are difficult to get filled with Danish labour. With it is then a completely different story or there is actually enough a connection. So it is simply that we keep pushing the government and telling them that yes, we have made a tax agreement, and we are glad of that, because we had it drawn in the right direction, but even after it has been phased in in in many years, even after that time there will still be a quarter of a million people for whom there is a weak incentive to work. I am surprised that the Minister, who is otherwise reformative, says that at least he will not be doing any further now, so we can see that the effect is simply going to be greater than what is currently the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131527	Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131528	I have certainly not talked about the fact that I do not want to do any further. But now Mr. Jacob Jensen, at 452,000 kroner. To a children's family with three children is too much. Could we be informed of how much a reasonable level would be?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131540	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131541	I just need to get this straight. This is Question Time, and I think it is I who ask the questions and the Minister who gives the answers. But I would like to ask the counter-question: does the question I have just received from the Minister mean that the Minister thinks it is okay to get so much? Or maybe you need more than that, since we can understand that the government is very worried about, about 454,215 kroner. For a couple with three children just should be enough? Does this mean that the government is actually on the way to increasing that amount and thus making it even more difficult for them to enter the labour market, making the difference even less? We must understand that the ceiling on cash benefits has been abolished for the time being, the start-up aid and the 225-hour rule have been abolished. It is all something that has made it less attractive to take a job. Does this mean that public services are now on the way to increasing further?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131627	Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131628	I believe that anyone following the debate here can hear how hollow it is. It is considered that an amount is unreasonable, but one cannot say what amount would be reasonable. Well, then it's because you don't want to tell me what your policy is. I can just say on behalf of the government that we have no plans to take the groups in Danish society that we have purposed to help out of poverty, those who have the very least, and push them back into poverty. And that's what the Left wants. Unfortunately, how much or how many we cannot learn today, at least not today, because it seems that this has not just been decided, as my colleague had occasion to say sometimes the other day in the newspaper. But what we have done, on the other hand, is what one might well imagine that more could be done over time, namely to ensure that those who serve the least are allowed to keep some more of it. That is why, when the tax reform is fully phased in, we will not have 330,000, as was the case in 2013, but 250,000 with low incentives to work. But the good news is that fortunately most of them work, and that is why the task is to ensure that those who do not work today are also available and take up the work that is to be done, even if the difference is not as great as one might wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131736	Then I can thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and thank Mr. Mr Jacob Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 2 has been completed. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131754	Thank you. The question is: how will the Minister ensure that they approx. 20% by the Danes, who were automatically registered for digital mail per. 1 November 2014, do not get caught up in public service claims, which are only sent to the digital mailbox?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131809	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311131810	Thank you very much for the question. It is true, as the questioner points out, that on 1 November last year all citizens who had not signed up for or applied for exemption were registered for digital mail from the public sector. In this context, a very comprehensive communication campaign was carried out and resulted in 98 per cent. It is almost North Korean conditions in November 2014 that were known that the post would come digitally in the future. A total of approx. 23% by citizens automatically registered for digital mail from the public sector on 1 November, but a large proportion of the citizens already used e-Boks for example. to receive payrolls, bank papers and the like. Only approx. 6% by citizens were registered without knowing e-Boks in advance, and more than half of them have already checked their digital mail. Then there is a group of approx. 150,000 citizens who have not previously been in contact with e-Boks and who have not been logged in to digital mail, and that is equivalent to approx. 3% of all registered. In addition, there is a slightly larger group that has not given up their email or mobile number so that they can get a message when they receive digital mail, and these are the groups we need to focus on. We know that approx. One third of those who have not used e-Boks in the past are young people under the age of 18, who only receive mail from the public sector to a limited extent for obvious reasons, and I am quite convinced that that group will come on as they, for example. must seek training or need to receive public services. Nevertheless, in the spring, we are undertaking a targeted communication effort aimed at young people, and educational material has been prepared which the schools are free to use against this group. In addition, there is a group of citizens where special efforts are needed, and this applies among other things. the non-Danish language, and to them material has already been made in several languages, and further material is sent to the language schools within the next weeks. In addition, there is close contact with organisations representing groups of citizens, some of whom do not check their digital mail, and finally, municipalities are still working to a large extent to ensure that the right citizens are exempt and that citizens generally receive their digital mail. After all, the authorities have a very great interest in the fact that the post they send is actually being read and there is recognition that it may be appropriate to show some flexibility in this respect. It can, for example, be done. be that you make contact with a citizen who has not responded to digital mail if the situation so requires, or that the authorities remind us that, for example: Calls and other important letters arrive via digital mail when they still talk to the citizen in connection with a hospital survey or a public service appearance. So when I look at the figures and the initiatives we have launched, I think there is cause for optimism. Knowledge of digital mail is towering, and it is quite a few percent that has not yet visited the solution, and initiatives have been put into the lake to support that the citizens do not get caught.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132121	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132123	It's nice to hear that a lot of people have heard about this, and it's also nice to hear that a lot of people are using it. That's really good. Those I may be worried about are, after all, the group, the small percentage that is left, which has not actually been in their digital mail; who do not actually respond to the enquiries that come from the municipality; who may also have no contact with the municipality, but who risks, when the municipality has sent a reminder or two, being without services or otherwise standing without the help they need, because they do not find that anything is happening. That is why the question is actually very much about what it is like to ensure that the latter are obtained. Because one thing is that you have informed and that a lot of people know it, but there is still a group left that has not responded to it. Now it is also said that young people may come in, but there is also a large group of young people who find it very difficult to handle this purely digitally. There's nowhere to go. If you contact Payout Denmark because you can't handle this digitally, then Payout Denmark will say that you have to contact your municipality. Then you can go down to the municipality, and then you have to fill out a form that has to be sent back to Payout Denmark before you can even be exempted from being a digital cop. At the same time, it is also true that you cannot be exempted from everything at once, so even if you are exempted from digital mail, you are not automatically exempted from all kinds of other applications, even if you cannot handle digital mail. So how are we going to help those citizens who do not really think about it and where we have to recognise that there is a need for them to be helped when they find themselves in the situation that they, for example, are in? Does it fail to reply and thus do not receive the benefit to which they are actually entitled?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132323	That is exactly what I answered just a few minutes ago. So, I gave one, I think, quite precise account of how few people we are talking about; how small a percentage we are dealing with; how successful this has already been; how much knowledge we have of it; what groups we are talking about young people, non-Danish-speaking and also other groups; what targeted initiatives we have in relation to the difficulties of all these groups in resolving the problem; and what flexibility we are also putting in place to apply in the specific situations of the public authorities. So instead of making such a negative political case out of what one has apparently decided in the Danish People's Party that one would like to do on this point, one could also be pleased that something one has been against actually turns out to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132409	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132410	Well, I'm gonna have to ask a little bit more clearly, maybe, so the minister can understand. How do you get hold of those citizens who have not been exempted and who per year? has received a digital mailbox on 1 November, but has not yet been in the mailbox because they are unable to do so? What kind of handles are there to grab them? Should the municipalities contact them? They have no resources for that. How are we going to ensure that we get hold of those citizens? Or are we just gonna say they're just gonna be forgotten in the system? What's the system about? What should the municipalities do in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132450	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132451	Actually, I went through that quite specifically. Very concrete initiatives are being taken in relation to young people; very concrete initiatives are being taken in relation to non-Danish language; very concrete initiatives are being taken in relation to the organisations representing certain vulnerable groups in our society which can be included; very concrete initiatives are being taken in relation to asking municipalities and regions, moreover, to pay attention to these situations and to try to solve the problem in their contacts with citizens. So it is then that I think we should also bear in mind at the Danish People's Party and at the author's office that it is certainly not the case that all the papers received from the public authorities over the years have all been opened and have led them to act on the requests they have received. I think I can reveal from my own personal life, even though I may not represent any exposed group, that there are quite a lot of public inquiries that I have not received in time because I have not opened the letter. Do you think I'm all alone with that challenge? I don't think I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132550	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132552	No, there are many problems and there are many things in it, but the advantage of getting a paper letter is, after all, that there will be an opportunity for you to get help from others. The problem in the digital mail is that only one person can go in there, and that is a problem if one fails to do so. I have a completely different example. Now we have heard a lot recently about SKAT and information and tax returns, etc. If the citizen who cannot use NemID and cannot type the code and so cannot handle his own annual statement goes down to his municipality and asks for help, he will not be able to get any help, because the municipality must not actually help in finding this information and getting this job done. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132635	I think it follows from such an ordinary Danish administration that there is a duty to provide guidance to the citizens who come up with a problem. You should give advice there, and I think you do too. By the way, I completely disagree with the questioner in relation to the issue of whether it would be of any particular benefit to the citizen, and it is almost whatever citizens we are talking about having received a paper letter instead of a letter that is digital. There's something about a paper note that could be lost. It has also happened to me, I can reveal, in a great many contexts, and it has proved to be infinitely trouble for my own personal part. A digital letter can't do that. It's digital. By the way, as smart as this is, you can give your relatives access to this digital mailbox and help you if you are in a situation where you cannot handle things yourself, which is true of many older citizens. So, overall, it is a step forward in social terms as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132726	That was the last answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I'm grateful to both of you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl and the Minister of Finance. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 4 which is addressed to the Minister of Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132742	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's attitude to making a single register with the police that shows where in Denmark video surveillance has been set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132752	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132753	I take the view that the issue here is probably related to the terrorist attack that we saw in Copenhagen on 14 and 15 February, unfortunately, because at least a discussion has been raised on the issue of video surveillance afterwards. That is why I would like to respond positively to the question in the sense that, right now, the investigation into the terrorist attack is still going away. A lot of people are at it. In parallel with this, our authorities carry out the necessary evaluation and collection and will, of course, deal with a great many different issues. If it is the case that this collection is going to show the need for new initiatives it could e.g. be a better overview or registration of camcorders and thus video surveillance in Denmark • that is something I want to look at very positively as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132847	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311132848	I think it is a good thing that the Minister announces that you are ready to look at that opportunity. It is quite true, as the Minister says, that this proposal is particularly topical after the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, which unfortunately proved difficult to investigate in the situation because the police had to spend valuable time driving around the streets, among other things. On Østerbro, to spot public surveillance cameras all over this situation. You could have saved that if you had a register, so you knew exactly where there is video surveillance. Unfortunately, the police do not have a central register of the location of the various surveillance cameras. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party think it is desirable to create such a register of television surveillance equipment so that the police can investigate similar cases in the future. I would like to ask the Minister what the Minister sees as an opportunity here and what the timescale is for establishing such a thing. It's already the case that a lot of this information exists. They're just not part of a central register. Would it not be useful if we now see that Denmark has unfortunately been hit by terror and that the risk is that others will have the same ideas, unfortunately? And isn't that a matter of urgency? Let me mention that the Deputy Police Commissioner Jens Møller Jensen said very clearly that it would be very desirable and that it would save important resources and time in the situation if information on such monitoring were available.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133049	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133050	I do not want to be surprised in the same way as the author of the question has taught me single elements in the course of the terrorist attack before we have the overall view. My assessment is that this is a relatively fast and very effective response from the police. After all, we managed to find the perpetrator in question, including in the international context, quite quickly. Video surveillance has played a role in this regard, and that is why, both in the public debate so far and also in the response here, I am fundamentally in favour. If a recording of video surveillance will help the police, then I am immediately in favour, but I think we should take things in the right order. Let us now get the overall overview and the overall evaluation of the whole process and any recommendations from the authorities and then the political discussion thereafter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133150	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133150-2	Well, as I said, it is very good that the Minister is positive. I am interested in when something is going to happen, that is to say the time perspective: when can we expect the police to have the opportunities and thus save the time that they will need in the future, if anything like this happens, to find out where there is this surveillance? Can the Minister not tell us when the statement which is supposed to be the reason why the government can have a definitive position on this issue, and how does the Minister see the progress from the statement to the decision that the police will have this improved opportunity in the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133235	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133236	I really find it strange that the questioner's approach gives us an amazement at the order chosen by the government. For it is clear that we could of course trip over each other's political legs to be those who report out in the east and west, what it is that is going to be on top of a terrorist attack in Copenhagen. However, I am not sure that this is the wisest method of progress, and I am far from sure that this is what it takes to strengthen our overall response to terrorism. That's why I insist on the order. I know it is duller than what the Danish People's Party is proposing, and that it is not the one clearing any front pages. I think that's just the right way to do it. Now let the investigation go ahead, let the authorities carry out an overall evaluation of the process, let the authorities make any wishes and recommendations, and then let us take the political discussion. And that is something that is imminent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133332	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133333	Well, I really do not think there is any reason to talk one another out, but on the other hand I would like to say that it is important to act quickly if we politicians discover things that slow down the police in their work and things that we can see are immediately affordable to change for the benefit of reaching faster and intercepting a network that might be associated with a terrorist attack. Obviously, it is a matter of acting quickly. I have to say that I do not need a statement on this to say that we are starting to do so now. It may well be that the Minister needs it, and then what I am asking is: OK, when will the statement be so precise, and when can we expect the government to find a clarification of its position on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133422	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133423	But shouldn't you be careful as an ordinary member of parliament, what I am, thinking you know better? Shouldn't you really be careful about that? So, is it not our joint task and responsibility to ensure that we make decisions on an enlightened basis following a terrorist attack in Copenhagen? We are currently engaged in good political negotiations on a comprehensive package of terrorism. What characterises the proposals contained therein is that they are based on recommendations from the authorities. And despite being the Minister of Justice of the country, I am certainly not in a situation where I think I have a better overview or a better insight into what is the most effective tools and safeguards. So, once again, I would like to call for the investigation to be carried out and an overall evaluation to be established; the recommendations come to us as politicians, and from there we can take the political discussion. And as a starting point, I reject no good ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133523	That was the last answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 5, and it's still gone to the Minister for Justice, and it's still gone by Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133532	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's position on a broad political desire to investigate the possibility of disbanding the Islamist organisation Hizb ut-Tahrir, which, in addition to claiming that the Danish politicians themselves bear a large part of the responsibility for the terrorist act in Copenhagen recently, is determined to abolish democracy and introduce an Islamic caliphate and also to influence society, which is exemplified by the fact that a prominent member of the organisation has sat down in the chair of the Departmental Board of the Icelandic High Park in Nivå
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133619	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133620	I welcome the question because it gives me the opportunity and opportunity to strongly oppose the association Hizb ut-Tahrir, their utterances and their opinions, which I do not believe belong in Danish society, because they are incompatible with our democracy and our freedoms, and, moreover, they are a prehistoric relic in their view of both people and society. If it is possible at all to dissolve that association, then I think there is reason to do so. I have no fine principles as far as Hizb ut-Tahrir is concerned and, like many others, I am filled with both mistrust and disagreement in relation to the association. As the questioner is also aware, the Attorney General has considered several times the question of the dissolution of Hizb ut-Tahrir. Until now, no basis has been found for doing so, but since 2008 there has been increased attention to the association. A reporting system has been set up so that the Attorney General receives reports from both the prosecutors, PET, of course, but also from the police circles to ensure that all new knowledge about the association can form the basis for an ongoing consideration. As I have said in other contexts, it is my view as Minister of Justice that as soon as the Attorney General finds a basis for seeking the dissolution of the association, he must do so. And that is still my position, but it is clear that the basis must be in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133755	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311133757	Thank you. I think it is absolutely good that we in the Danish People's Party are very pleased with the fact that after all the Minister has now said that the Attorney General should look again at Hizb ut-Tahir. Having said that, we must also say that there is not much going on. There is some time to go, and Hizb ut-Tahrir can still work and work in the direction that they now want, and with the very violent calls they make for the killing of Jews. And under the auspices of the Heimdalsgademosque in Copenhagen, they can vomit one bandbull after another against Danish society, accuse Danish politicians of being responsible for the terrorist act, etc. etc. As it is a well-known fact that the terrorist behind the terrorist attack in Copenhagen came into this mosque, where these bandbulls are spilt, it is a risk that radicalized people are inspired by the talk that comes from Hizb ut-Tahrir. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly what the Minister thinks is the basis for the Minister to look at things again. Is that what comes from the Heimdalsgade Mosque, is it some of the other activities that Hizb ut-Tahrir has brought in? As I said, it is a good thing that something is starting to happen, because in the Danish People's Party we actually believe that it is an obligation that the Minister for Justice dissolves Hizb ut-Tahrir now and seeks to bring a case before the courts afterwards, according to the paragraph of the Constitution in this area. The Minister of Justice has chosen not to do so, but has chosen to ask the Attorney General in the first place. What we are looking for here is to find out what is in it and when something is going to happen. When are we gonna get a result from the Attorney General? Has the Minister asked the Attorney General to take a look at this? When will this result?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134001	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134003	I just want to say for the sake of those who are listening that when the Danish People's Party makes it sound as if it would be quite common for changing ministers of justice to dissolve different associations, it is therefore not in any way right. There is usually a division of power in Denmark, which is why it is of course not my job to assess the basis for a dissolution of Hizb ut-Tahrir. It's the Attorney General's job. That is where you have the power to do so. I, on the other hand, am a politician, and I am with great P, and therefore, when I meet dark forces that will overthrow Danish society, undermine our democracy and also attack individuals with statements, there is every reason to distance themselves from them. Therefore, it is of course my very, very clear expectation that as soon as there is a basis for the dissolution of the association, the Attorney General shall seek to have it done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134049	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134050	Thanks for the answers. And yet I do not really think I was given an answer, firstly in relation to whether the Minister has asked that the Attorney General look at it. And what exactly is the basis, according to the Minister, what is the new in relation to the dissolution of Hizb ut-Tahir? And then the Minister says it is not the Minister's job. It is then the government can bring in assistance from the Ministry or from the Attorney General, it is up to the government's assessment of it, but one must do so if there are associations that act by violence or call for violence, and so does Hizb ut-Tahir. They call, for example, for: to the killing of Jews. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether we can come a little closer on that basis to the answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134142	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134143	Yes, but as the questioner well knows, I never speak on specific matters. Because I am not the courts, and it is probably very clever and sensible, also forward-looking, that we respect that division of labour. If it is the case that something illegal is said, then one should be prosecuted in relation to it. Therefore, it is important that there is continuous monitoring of statements, including from the relevant mosques and spokespersons, which are referred to here. The Attorney General has an ongoing obligation to assess whether you can apply for the association dissolved, and I expect that and I have said this directly to the Attorney General that it has a very, very high priority. For Hizb ut-Tahrir does not belong in Denmark in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134231	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134232	Then, since Hizb ut-Tahrir, as the Minister says, does not belong in Denmark, I would like to ask the Minister what the government is going to do about it exactly apart from asking the Attorney General to look at this. We can see now that Hizb ut-Tahrir looks forward with their face, for example. in the Islandshøjparken in Nivå, where they have sat down in the chair of the residents' association out there. We have seen Hizb ut-Tahrir assert himself in Brøndby Strand IK, where one also suddenly sat down in power and banned pork and alcohol, where it has been a tradition within this sports club for many years that one has been able to enjoy such things in connection with the club's activities. If it is not something that worries the Minister, that while you let the Attorney General investigate it, still as you have done in the past, without results, these activities are running; Hizb ut-Tahrir wins out and sits down in power, for example. in sports clubs and residents' associations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134339	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134340	Yeah, that's something that really bothers me. Hizb ut-Tahrir does not belong at Nørrebro, in mosques, in large halls of sports associations or in residential associations; they do not belong in Denmark. They want to undermine and overthrow Danish society. They may have their crazy ideas, if that's what they want, but I think you should move them somewhere else. Because it is so incompatible with everything that our society is built on, and that is why we must do what we can to fight them, just like all other dark men and all other dogmatic ideological tendencies that do not want democracy and freedom. In this way they do not differ from others who throughout history have tried to suppress Danish society. Unfortunately, there will always be an eternal battle between them and all of us who want freedom, light and democracy, and we must take that fight. As soon as the Attorney General finds a basis for disbanding the association, I expect it to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134435	That was the last answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 6, and it's also for the Minister of Justice, and that's by Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134446	Thank you. My question is: what is the Minister's explanation for the indictment of Lars Hedegaard, although he is the persecuted and has to live underground, and what is the government doing to have the assassin convicted and apprehended who tried to murder Lars Hedegaard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134502	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134504	I would like to say in relation to the first part of the question that, like many other examples, I am one of the sad things about being the Minister of Justice: that this is said a great many times, that is to say, to prevent me from going into very specific cases that are pending with the police, and so is this case. And then perhaps I should just remind you that no matter who you are, what you are called, what you may have been exposed to, whether you are a victim or a perpetrator, you must therefore abide by the laws of the country; that is true in all respects. It can be said that, with regard to the specific investigation in relation to the alleged perpetrator of the assassination of Lars Hedegaard, I do not want to go into what are the investigative tactics of our authorities, because it is, of course, in danger of exposing the existing attempt being made to capture the person concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134605	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134607	But what can only surprise me, and I really think too many, is that, on the one hand, this perpetrator, who is well aware of who is, disappears from the custody of the Turkish authorities and is somewhere else, which I think is quite absurd, and, on the other hand, charges are being made against Lars Hedegaard for publishing a name. I would say that the media and the like have shown that we are aware of who the perpetrator is. So in this way I just think it is the reverse world, and I am actually asking what is being done in relation to the Turkish authorities. I think it would be nice to know that there is still pressure from the government on the Turkish authorities to find this person and that more is being done than just sitting on their hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134710	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134712	I have never quite understood why you should sit on your hands, which is why I have never tried to achieve it, and certainly not in a case like this. First of all, there is a search for the person concerned, because we would like to have him apprehended so that he may be prosecuted. Secondly, there will, of course, continue to be pressure on the Danish side vis-à-vis the Turkish authorities so that we can understand what has happened in relation to their release. I have said this in other contexts, and I would like to repeat it: it is fundamentally unacceptable that a suspected perpetrator of an attack in Denmark should be released from a Turkish prison without us knowing why and what circumstances are surrounding it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134755	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134757	In other words, what puts me in a hurry and I have never sat on my hands either, but one could try to see how it feels, after all, that Lars Hedegaard currently has to live underground and until recently at least has not had police protection, although there is a perpetrator who has tried to murder him. And he gives some information about who the perpetrator is, where the abbreviations have been included in the general coverage of the news, and then there is a perpetrator who is apparently playing around with the various authorities around, and there are the Turkish authorities who are not doing anything about the case or at least it seems to me that the Turkish authorities are not doing enough about it. And I'm just thinking, what is the government going to do about this phenomenon? It is therefore deeply worrying that Danish citizens should live in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134854	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134857	It would certainly be remarkable if I said to the Danish police that they should not ensure that the laws of the country are observed. So I'm not gonna let you know. We need to catch the alleged perpetrator. In fact, once he has succeeded in doing so, unfortunately he seems to have been released by the Turkish authorities. We still lack clarity about what has happened, but the search for the person concerned is, of course, intact and, of course, we in Denmark want him to be apprehended wherever he is. If there are specific people, institutions in Denmark that need protection, they must of course have it, and it is in any case deeply regrettable that there are people in Denmark who, because of the use of their freedom of expression, are under threat. There is only reason to distance ourselves from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134947	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311134948	Well, then maybe I can get a little closer to the question. Why has it been so difficult to pressure the Turkish authorities to reveal what has happened? It must, of course, be a clear task for us to really press ahead, and also to bring other countries together to press ahead with Turkey when they have released this perpetrator. Why hasn't anything more happened in the case? I'm just wondering. There are so many other things you can do. Why can we not press the Turkish authorities to actually reveal what has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135029	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135030	There can be no two views on this matter. It is deeply regrettable and also, I think, harmful to Danish-Turkish cooperation that we cannot get clear answers from the Turkish authorities. We are, of course, trying through the diplomatic channels we normally have in foreign policy, and also in relation to the extradition of serving people, and we are doing everything we can to push the Turkish authorities. But of course it is both problematic, wrong and not conducive to the Danish-Turkish relationship that we cannot be sure of what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135101	That was the last answer to the question. We move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Justice, and that is by Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135112	What is the explanation for the fact that, up to the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, the authorities repeatedly ignored the Jewish community's request for police protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135124	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135125	We are in an obviously wrong and terrible situation about the fact that our Jewish minority in Denmark is an endangered population. It is true in Denmark, as in a number of other European countries, that we have minorities who, because of their religious affiliation and their roots alone, are subject to threats, harassment and terrorist attacks, as we have seen most recently in France and Denmark. And precisely the dramatic events in Copenhagen show us that our Jewish minorities in Denmark are a vulnerable and threatened group and that they must therefore enjoy the protection, solidarity and support of the rest of society. That is our task. May I then say that it is not true, as the question here says, that there are authorities that have ignored Jewish society. You can have different views on how best to look after, and there can be different methodological considerations in relation to security and threat work. But that there are authorities that should have ignored the Jewish minority and the Jewish institutions, I am certainly not aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135244	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135246	There have been four requests from the Jewish community when we go from summer 2014, also to the Minister of Justice, first to Karen Hækkerup and then to the current Minister of Justice. And the last letter was sent six days after the terrorist attack in Paris, on 13 January, when the Jewish religion requests protection and that the Minister of Justice and the authorities take this matter seriously, because they fear that this is justified, bearing in mind that Jews in Paris also suffered a fatal outcome. These are some of the things you mention in this letter. The more you dive into this case, the more I think there's a lot left to get right. I think it has been said that this has not been taken very seriously, as I think we should have done on 13 January in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135357	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135358	It must be for the questioner's own account to assess who takes what seriously in this country. I can speak on my own behalf, and I have taken this issue seriously from my first day as Minister of Justice, and I will continue to do so. There is no doubt that our Jewish minorities in Denmark must be protected. We have known this for a long time, and it pains me as a European that we are in a situation where European Jews are an endangered minority. We cannot be familiar with this, and that is why both our present and, of course, our common past in providing our Jewish minorities with the protection they need. In relation to very specific measures, it should be based on a police professional judgement, because it is, of course, an authority's task to provide the necessary security measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135451	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135452	I would like to address the Prime Minister's statement that it has been 16 February, but at least around 16-17 February to the Danish media that the protection of the Jewish synagogue has been strengthened following the attacks in Paris. If we then proceed to the terrorist attack in Denmark, I would say that at least something in this is not true. In other words, has that security really been strengthened when you consider that there was a doorman and perhaps a couple of cops, but that it was so relatively easy? It could have gone a lot worse with this bar mitzvah party. Is there not a discrepancy between the Prime Minister's statement on 17 February that they are well protected and what is actually the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135550	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135551	The tragedy outside the synagogue on 14-15 February cannot be lamented enough, and Dan Uzan's life is not coming back. The protection of the Jews and the need therefore seem to me to be completely indisputable. As regards the increased preparedness during the period following the attacks in France, including on Charlie Hebdo, and until the assassination in Copenhagen, the Copenhagen Police have stated that the emergency response level was increased. And, of course, I have no reason to believe that this is not correct when it is put forward in this way by the Copenhagen Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135637	Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 7 is at the end of the debate, I would like to thank Mr. Christian Langballe and thank the Minister for Justice. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf It's for the Minister of Culture, and that's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135654	Thank you. The question is: What is the Minister's view that 40 out of 48 members of the Board of Governors of the Danish Arts Foundation live on Zealand, and how does the Minister think that it is compatible with the purpose of the Danish Arts Foundation, as described in Section 3 (3) of the Act. 3, to promote the geographical spread of art throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135716	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135719	Thank you. And thank you for the question. The question may be based on a misunderstanding, because the board of directors does not distribute grants or money for projects and is not in this way responsible for how the committees of the Art Foundation allocate the funds. What has happened since the amendment of the law and the reform of the entire art support system, is that there in the paragraph, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen also refers to, has come in that in addition to quality and the artistic etc. should also look at the distribution of art across the country. That is why we have also endeavoured to ensure, when the members of the committees are appointed, that there are representatives of both sexes and from different geographical areas of the country. So we are actually making an effort on the part of the Ministry of Culture and the Danish Cultural Authority to try to fulfil the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135818	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311135821	Of course, it is up to believers when the Minister for Culture says so, but this debate has been raised by a large number of municipalities that are nervous. It is quite true, as the Minister has said, that it is not the board of directors that distributes, but let us then tell what the composition of the distribution committee is. The composition of the distribution committee is that 39 of the 56 members live in the metropolitan area 39 out of 56. Here, too, there is a huge imbalance and a huge imbalance in relation to the fact that we had a political desire and that it is a genuinely legal wish that there should be a balance in securing the support of art. I just have to admit that I'm one of those people... we're not as many in here as actually live west of Storebælt, and I pay just as much in taxes as those who live east of Storebælt. Therefore, there are also a large number of other people in Jutland who think a little in the same way: Yes, yes, we have a capital where, of course, there are a large number of obligations in relation to having a royal theatre etc. But that is why a large number of performers are still away around the country, which is at least as good as those who are here in the capital. But it is just difficult to ensure that they are also remembered if those who give the money come mainly from the metropolitan area. It certainly presents a huge challenge, and that is why we are experiencing what we are doing, namely that the vast majority of the money that is given is given mainly to artists in this metropolitan area. So there's a bias. Although the Minister says that the Minister does not want a bias, there is a bias and therefore I think that we should address it seriously and try to deal with how we can achieve better balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140008	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140011	Well, we relate to it every day. I have meetings with the Committees of the Arts Foundation and try to get through, I had almost said, all of them, and we are discussing many different things about the system, in other words how we make it work better and what we could do even better and so on. That is why I know that this is a subject which concerns all the committees. These are new committees, and they operate within a new law, but they still have to ensure that what you are distributing money to has a good quality level and they must ensure that it is spread across the country. Both are, after all, part of their task under the law. And we have had the new legislation for a relatively short time. It's a good year now. So I think it might be interesting after a few years, 3 years perhaps, to try to count up and see how the aid is distributed. Because we don't really have a basis yet. We can't use the experience we have, which is many years old. But I recognize the problem that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen describes, which is why I am concerned about the problem myself. But again, there's an important thing for me. Sorry, time's up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140123	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140124	Thank you. Well, I am happy to accept all the small openings that are there, and if I can interpret it in such a way that the Minister would like us to have a political focus on it, then I do accept it. Because I was disappointed when the Minister replied to the Committee on Culture on 26 February that the Minister believes that a large part of the Danish art scene originated in Copenhagen and that the Minister therefore considers it quite natural that such a large proportion of the members of the Danish Arts Foundation are resident in Copenhagen. The Minister replied in writing in a reply. That is not, on the other hand, what I think should be the right answer. But that is not quite what I hear the Minister say today. And that is why there are some positive things here too, so let us stick to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140200	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140202	I also think that as a minister one should be a little snuffy sometimes and say that there are limits to how much one can go in and interfere when there is a system governed by an arm's length principle. I think we all agree on that too. That is why this is also about seeing some things and getting better and better opportunities to identify more people covering the country. When I, as a minister, am presented with proposals for appointments, I make every effort to ensure that there are some in each committee who do not live in Copenhagen but who live on Funen or in Jutland, i.e. not even in Zealand, if I can avoid it. I'm sorry, I'm saying it that way, but still. As long as there is one in a committee, there is also a possibility that there are some who recall what is intended. However, I have the impression that the committees are generally very aware of this and would like to contribute to the spread of art in the country. Everyone only has one interest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140302	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140304	So I am not quite so optimistic about the fact that if there is just one or a few people outside the metropolitan area, then we have ensured that there is a need to focus on not giving all the money just in the metropolitan area. It also matters how many people are sitting there. That is why I think it should be politically desirable that there should be a significantly better balance than just representatives in the order of a few. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140332	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140334	I think that there is always a balance in terms of also respecting those who are appointed by the professional people, namely the names assigned to me as possible members of a committee, i.e. I also respect the professionalism which is at the root there. And when I ask why people have done this and why they have not done this or so, then I get some professionally-founded answers, not any politically-founded answers. I would very much like to share that experience with the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, including the questioner. I just think that we need a little more time, because the art fund has only been operating for over a year under the new legislation. So shouldn't we let it get started and then follow up on it and try to see what we can do? And we can also contribute by attending the meetings of the Arts Foundation's Board of Governors once a year, taking up those themes and where they would like to discuss it with the politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140426	That was the last answer to question 8. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It's also for the Minister of Culture, and it's also for Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140436	Thank you. The question is: What is the Minister's view that Copenhagen Phil, i.e. Sjællands Symphony Orchestra, is not financed with a single crown from the City of Copenhagen, when Aalborg, Aarhus and Odense Municipality are obliged to co-finance their respective symphony orchestras, and does the Minister regard this distribution of state funds to the symphony orchestras as a distortion of cultural support?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140457	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140459	Actually, I think there's a really good explanation for this case. I understand the reaction when you see the numbers, so that's fine. That's why it's good to ask, so we can get it unveiled. But the story is that Copenhagen Phil is also called the whole Søllands Symphony Orchestra. This is because the orchestra is obliged to hold concerts all over Zealand and thus affects a large number or indeed all of the Sjælland municipalities and not only the City of Copenhagen. Until the municipal reform in 2007, the orchestra was partly financed by county funds from the Zealand counties and the former Capital Council. It was the counties and the Capital Council that established the orchestra and did so together with the intention that it should cover all the municipalities on Zealand. In fact, I can only respect that. Then, of course, there will be a municipal reform under the government of the VK, and there we will not be included in that conciliation. I do not know whether we had acted differently from the then government, but the then government decided that the funds that had come from the counties and the Capital Council should go back to the state and the state should distribute to those who had received them before. Therefore, we suddenly see some completely different senders of the money than it was originally thought. So originally Copenhagen Phil was a municipally oriented orchestra for all municipalities on Zealand and it is still gone. But you could see it on those who paid back then; you just can't do that today. That is why I am pleased to have the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140622	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140623	Thank you. The problem with history is that it's history. There may be very good reasons why you did it when you did it, but fortunately there is also some sort of development that means that you have to stop sometimes and say: okay, is there anything other than history that makes us do what we do now? Is there perhaps a better reason to do so in another way? This is what makes me think that a great many people who have been asked about this are at least what I have been asked about this very, very many people will say that it is difficult on the basis of a municipal reform, which is now having a few years on the back, to defend that you are still going on and on and on driving around in the same groove. That's where the problem lies. The minister says that the Sjælland Symphony Orchestra covers the whole of Zealand. But if you also look at the other symphony orchestras, you can see that they do not just cover their respective municipalities; they also come around a lot. I think they will be very willing, it is at least my impression, to make some form of greater coverage if it meant some form of greater back cover by the state. After all, much has been discussed here in England, and a conclusion has actually been reached which says that if there is to be a real balance between London on the one hand and the rest of the country on the other hand, perhaps there should be a significant reduction in support of art in London in favour of setting it up respectfully outside London. And that is because in London there are more rich people, more tourists and more opportunities for profit, we have to say more market-oriented conditions than there are, of course, in the thinner populated areas. Does the Minister not think that it is perhaps a bit the same problem here? Not because it was supposed to be a one-solution or something; that is not at all what I am arguing for. There must be a difference between the capital and the province, but right now, when there is such a huge imbalance, it could perhaps be reduced by a similar solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140815	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140816	I would like to make it quite clear that in 2007, when the municipal reform was adopted, there was also a distortion. Yet they chose to do as I have just described it before. Of course you could change that, and then you could do it in the way I now try to describe: to take what the counties paid before and distribute to the municipalities located on Zealand and say: Now you each take your bite of this and pay to Copenhagen Phil.. Is that better?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140850	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140851	I mean, I think any kind of balance is better. That is also why, since I sent in this question, I have been a little surprised and now I am going outside the question; well, the President does not hear what I am saying now, I hope. We have noticed that Charlottenborg suddenly got an extra grant out of the blue because they had problems with the economy, and that now means that at Charlottenborg, which has less than 8,000 paying guests, each guest actually gets 1,000 DKK. in support, in relation to what Charlottenborg's support system is like. There are a large number of cultural institutions outside Greater Copenhagen which would cut off their one leg if they could get the same solution. And that's where my whole problem is. It's that right now it's very easy, if there's anything in Copenhagen that's having a rough time, then we go in and save it. But if the same is the case outside Copenhagen, it is somewhat more difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140946	I assure you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen said that there is not a word coming from him that I am not aware of. I know when to listen. Then it's the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311140954	Thank you. I am still surprised by this kind of discussion and argument. The art school and Charlottenborg are state responsibilities, it is a state institution. In Odense and Aarhus I just take it as an example... the two municipalities have each set up a municipal art education, which is in fact a problem for the state's art school. Because we are trying to scale the number of students in such a way that they have the chance to get work. But now there are two municipal institutions which also do training of that nature, and then they come to the state, to the Ministry of Culture, and want support for their education. And one of my predecessors and I haven't sought out who it is, because I don't want to know it has so said: Yes, we also give some money to Odense and Aarhus, where it is municipal initiatives in the name of municipal self-government. I think that is actually quite wrong, I have to say. Because this is not related to how we scale our education if we do it that way. Therefore, I think we should discuss at a different stage than just taking an example for example. Then you have to find some principles that are to endure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141105	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141105-2	Well, I would be very happy to take part in a discussion of principle on how to ensure better balance in the entire art system, but also in the entire art education system. I actually have the figures from the art academies for how and how it is. The Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen receives 48 million. kr. in government grants every year, while the Jutlandese gets 1 million. kr. and the Funen gets 1.4 million. kr. So, before one gets oneself up to the point that it is currently distorting the whole economic system inside the Ministry of Culture, let me remind you that there is therefore a world different in what is being given in state aid. I must admit that I think it is only good that we also ensure that there are art courses outside the capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141147	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141148	[Sound emission]... that the art educations we are talking about in Odense and Aarhus are not research-based. It's a special education they're doing there that can't be compared to Charlottenborg. We still have a state responsibility to ensure that artistic education is given fair conditions. That is why I have chosen to prioritise in the way I have. I have simply prioritised and took some money from something else to give to Charlottenborg to make things better. You can't put that responsibility away. You have to look at what the state's responsibility is in this context too. That's why I'm sorry we're having this kind of discussion here, because it's not Odense and Aarhus against Copenhagen or vice versa. It is also to create a culture that says that you cannot just set up an institution in a municipality and then come in and get state subsidies for it. You can't just ask a foundation to put bricks on bricks and create a new museum and then come in and get support for it. In my view, we simply cannot have this kind of self - service, and I would very much like to discuss how to avoid it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141251	That was the last answer to question 9. I thank the Minister for Culture and thank him. Michael Aastrup Jensen and welcomes the Minister for Employment and Question No. Ten, by Mr. Jens Ejner Christensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141305	The question is as follows: Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for a family with three children to receive DKK 454,215? in total public benefits, when others go to work every day and get virtually the same income from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141326	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141328	Like others, I have noticed that the Left is touring with a large-scale campaign about how much you can get as a cash help recipient in Denmark and that working is not worthwhile. When the Left uses a figure in the campaign called DKK 454,215, it should be remembered that this figure includes income from children's and young people's benefits, family allowances, free space and siblings' discount. The amount thus includes not only cash benefits but a number of benefits intended to help provide for a total of five people, including three children. Moreover, these are subsidies which would also be available to ordinary employees' families with wages at the low end of the scale. That is why I think it gives a misleading picture of what we are discussing here when the Left is running around with the figure in that way. A similar family to the one used by the Left in the campaign, but where both are employed on the HK agreement with minimum wage, will have a total income before tax of 419,000 DKK. in 2014, and after tax they will have 24,000 DKK. extra annually, i.e. 2,000 kr. a month. I think for most families, $2,000. every month very much in everyday life. Let me make it clear that if you are receiving cash benefits and being ready for work, you have to be available to take a job if you are offered it. It's as simple as that. Of course, if you say no, it has consequences. I fully recognise that there must also be incentives to go to work, but the government, like the Left, is not prepared to reinstate any poverty benefits, because we know that children are suffering from this. The government will go another way to strengthen the incentive to take a job, and that is among other things. to do as we did in 2012, when we came up with a major tax reform and increased the employment allowance by 2020, so that it will actually pay better to work for cash benefits recipients. At the same time, we have increased the hourly allowance in the cash benefits system from approx. 15 kroner. per hour to approx. 25 kroner. per hour. Overall, this means that if you are on cash benefits, you get 99 per cent. of the recipients of cash benefits DKK 1,000. a month after tax by taking a job, and we go back to the 2013 figures, so it's actually 94 percent that would get a prize of more than 2,000 DKK.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141550	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141551	It is true that we in the Left have tried to create a debate by trying to figure out a figure and then reached the 454,215 kroner, and in terms of getting the debate we have had some sort of success. We can, of course, discuss many figures and numbers in such situations, but I do believe that there is agreement that it is relatively small amounts that we are talking about in my optics. If we now say that there are those 1,000 kroner, the minister says 2,000 kroner, but I'd rather say 1000 kroner, extra a month to get up, go to work, have transport costs and such things, then the minister thinks it's enough with 1,000 kroner. to make that effort? Well, that's the difference between the $1,000. Enough to make an effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141650	I'd like to join you, sir. Jens Ejner Christensen and the Left, that one has had some kind of success, but it is that so far one has completely failed to give an offer of what one will do himself. It has been consistently argued that something is not right here, that is far too little and all the rhetoric we have heard, but what the Left, if any, wants, we have not heard a word about. So I admit there's been some kind of success. I hope that this success will not go on, because it does not mean that we will have a proper debate when a large party will have a party that even wants to be in government to be successful in not telling what its policy is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141730	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141731	Where, of course, we have wanted to create the debate, there are grounds for saying that in previous years there have been examples of the government's own economists saying that it has been calculated to find out how much extra per month should be available, so that one could actually say that there was a proper incentive to take a job. According to the information that I have found in the Economic Statement, which was made in 2013, the government itself says that the financial incentive of about DKK 1,000. the month, or what is called a net compensation rate of 80, is not enough to give a proper incentive to take up work. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141823	I think sir... Jens Ejner Christensen must admit that if we are to debate it is also necessary that there is something to debate about, and this requires both parties to report out what they want. Then I would like to say that what has succeeded in this government, among other things. also in cooperation with the Left, is that it pays to work for 99 percent. of those on cash benefits; for them there is a financial gain of DKK 1,000. a month by taking a job, for the vast majority there is an even greater gain.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141858	Then we have a co-questioner. This is Mrs Inger Støjberg from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141900	Thank you. Now the Minister says that in order to have a good debate one must also, yes, debate and answer the questions, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs forgot. The minister didn't really get the answer, sir. Jens Ejner Christensen on whether the Minister thinks that a prize of DKK 1,000. a month is enough. Is that a lot in the Minister's optics? When you think about it, as Mr. Jens Ejner Christensen also mentioned that you have to get up early, that you work and are away from home perhaps for 8-10 hours, that you have transport costs, and that there are also other costs of going to work, is 1,000 DKK. That's enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311141942-2	I am delighted that I am sitting in the chair in which Mrs Inger Støjberg was sitting a few years ago. Now that I'm in it, it's changed, this. When Mrs. Inger Støjberg sat in it, it was harder. Now, together, we have ensured that it pays to work too far, by the vast majority. And then there's the thing to say about 1,000 kroner. is a little or much that I actually think it is a nice amount, and I think that a lot of people who are down to that level of performance also think it is a significant contribution to making everyday life coherent. Then there's the other one. Once you enter the labour market, there are lots of statistics, but also common sense, which tells us that when you get a job, yes, you also get the opportunity to bite, get a better salary, get pensions and all the other benefits that are about to have a job. And the truth is that the vast majority of Danes actually want to go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142036	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142036-2	I fully agree with the Minister that the vast majority of Danes would like to work. Then I just think that we should ensure that a system is created together that makes working pay better and that the difference between not being at work and thus being on public support and being on the labour market becomes greater. That is why we are going to implement a modern ceiling on cash aid if we are going to be responsible again, and also why we are going to lighten the tax at the bottom. I still don't think the Minister got the answer about $1,000. Enough. But I can understand the Minister in the direction of 1,000 kroner. Everything is abundant, even when you're about to deduct transport costs, food, things you can't do when you're not at home. So it's obviously the ambition of this government that $1,000. Enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142131	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142132	I have replied very clearly, I have done so in several rounds and also in the last few days. What I just think is so interesting in this is that now Mrs Inger Støjberg once again uses the term a modern cash aid ceiling. I do not know how many times in the last few years we have heard it, but we have not come a centimeter closer to understanding what the Left means by a modern cash aid ceiling. What do Left people have to go down on in transfer income to give this incentive? What is the amount of money the Left is going for? There are so many answers to the questions that completely blow in the wind, and the Left is nowhere near giving just something that looks like an answer at all. I think that is a pity for the debate, because then we will not have a proper, fruitful debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142211	Then we return to the main questioner, and that's sir. Jens Ejner Christensen, who gets the last question here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142216	Thank you. In conclusion, I would like to ask briefly whether the Minister does not think that it is much, regardless of how we have calculated the figures, i.e. whether it is with some extra benefits or not, that a couple, as described, can get DKK 454,215. without working.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142248	That's where I think the difference between me and mr. Jens Ejner Christensen is that I am actually quite happy to live in a welfare society where we have reduced inequality between each other. I am glad that we are redistributing so that those who are weakest can have a proper foundation. What is forgotten in the way that is argued here is that a low-wage family would receive basically the same benefits in relation to children, and that is because we want children to have decent and secure conditions. But if it is not a view which the Left has taken on that one can suspect the Left very strongly with the way in which it is attacked here I think that one should say it more clearly and go out more clearly and say what a modern cash aid ceiling really is, because we could then have a real debate, including where Danish society should move.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142332	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It's still gone to the Minister for Employment, and it's still by Mr. Knox. Jens Ejner Christensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142341	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142342	Thank you. The question is as follows: Does the Minister think that 6 kr. the hour is sufficient incentive to work rather than not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142353	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142354	I think we should start somewhere else. This society is based on the fact that we all make the contribution that we can. There are rights and there are duties. I would actually like to turn it around and say that there are duties and there are rights. This means that our system is based on the obligation to support oneself; if one cannot support oneself in any way, one has the right to receive cash benefits. That is why we must, of course, be available for the labour market in order to be able to receive cash benefits. There should be no doubt that if you are offered a job and are ready for work, you are also obliged to take it. Then you get a win out of what we spent a little time on before. I repeat: over 99%. of those on cash benefits will have a cash prize of more than DKK 1,000. at a job. And then you can argue: is that a lot or a little? But I think it is part of this discussion that we have plenty of experience that, if you have first entered the labour market, you often start on the lowest wage, but over a period, perhaps even a relatively short period, you also get a higher income because you qualify along the way. And finally, there comes what is about being part of a community and everything else that I know by far, the vast majority of Danes would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142513	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142515	I agree with the Minister that we have built our society up with a system in which we have both rights and duties, or duties and rights, if you like. I think that is a good thing and we should stick to it. I would like to ask the Minister: do we not, as politicians, have a duty in that system to ensure that, for purely political reasons, we do not create an incentive for us to actually break down that system, if the Minister understands? I think that as politicians we have a duty to ensure that there is an incentive for those who get up in the morning and go to work that is considerably greater than the 6 kroner. It's an hour. Can the Minister not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142605	Yes, and that is precisely why this government has created the incentive that was not before. With the tax reform in relation to the employment allowance and in relation to the deduction by offsetting against the spouse's cash benefits, we have improved these opportunities. This means that they are now a situation in which it pays to take a job; at least DKK 1,000. for most or for virtually all. And for a very large percentage that it pays for, the difference is more than DKK 2,000. So I agree that we need to create incentives, and that is exactly what the government has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142640	Sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142641	However, I just feel that in a number of areas we have already made reforms in which we have taken on the duty as politicians to create a proper incentive. We have made a cash assistance reform, we have made a cash benefits reform and a number of reforms in which we have been in touch with some things. I think that there is exactly one specific area like what we are talking about here, where I do not really feel the government is ready to enter into that dialogue that we should increase the incentive that lies in getting up in the morning and going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142717	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142718	Once again, I am very pleased that I am part of a government which has just made many reforms and also with the author's party. It is, whether we are talking about cash benefits, we are talking about early and flex pensions, sickness benefits. Everyone has the incentive that we want to bring people as close to ordinary work as possible. It has been good and it has been right and we have taken some good steps. Now I just think that the Left is going to come out in this debate with a whole series of wishes, dreams and claims without just lifting anything that looks like a veil, for what it is then that the Left actually wants in this area. On the other hand, I think that is a great pity for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142801	Then we have another questioner. This is Mrs Inger Støjberg from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142805	I think we should try to figure out the right numbers. The Minister is now repeatedly saying here that this government has created a system in which it is largely worthwhile for everyone to work. That is not the case, I must say to the Minister. 333,000 have a very small financial incentive to work. 46.400 Danes have less than 1,000 DKK. a month out of work, and 17,700 people in Denmark will get more by being on public support than being at work. That's what this government has created. This government has created this by removing the ceiling on cash benefits by removing the starting aid and the 225-hour rule. That's what this government has created. It is a system in which it is not worthwhile for everyone to work, and I do not really think we can be familiar with that. It is therefore a fundamental value that we must create a society in which it is always worthwhile to work. Then it is true that we, together with the government, have helped to correct a small part of this. It is true that the government has created a system where too many people cannot pay to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311142915	Thank you very much to Mrs Inger Støjberg, because this is going to be interesting. Of the 17,700 mentioned here, there are approx. 600, on cash benefits. For the rest, the daily allowance we are talking about, and what I can now hear Mrs Inger Støjberg say is that we must have a modern unemployment benefit reform. That is almost what is being said directly here, and I just ask, because now I am really curious: what should the compensation for unemployment benefit be reduced to, because it cannot be 90% as it is for the lowest-paid people? Is that 70 we're going down to or 75 or 65? Now it becomes interesting, because now we are talking about the benefit recipients, when it is the case that Mrs Inger Støjberg is also talking about this figure, and then I think that the debate has really spread out and now has a completely new and different and exciting dimension.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143005	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143007	Well, the minister doesn't have to be polemical. The government has created a system in which too many people cannot pay to work. Yes, there are 600 cash benefits recipients who benefit more from being on cash benefits than being on the labour market, but I can hear the Minister completely satisfied with this: there are 600 people who get more from being at home than being on the labour market, and there are 46,400 people who get less than DKK 1,000. of being on the labour market rather than being at home. I think it's a crooked system this government has created. I do not think it is a system that increases the desire to work and take part in society. On the contrary, it is a completely wrong set of values.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143054	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143055	Of course, I cannot accuse Mrs Inger Støjberg of being polemical in relation to the visions and concrete things she brings in, because there is no one. I'm not polemical. All I'm saying is that when Mrs Inger Støjberg goes in and uses the number 17,700, it's the benefit recipients we're talking about. These aren't cash benefits recipients. Mrs Inger Støjberg will then have to deal with that: what is going to happen here in relation to that group? I ask, then, whether this is a new concept which the Left is now introducing in Question Time here today, which is called a modern benefit system. It must then be my claim, until something else is said, that the percentage of benefits should be reduced from the present 90%. for those earning at least 65 per cent or 70 per cent to? That must be something we're discussing now, I hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143141	Then we return to the main questioner, who will have the last question in connection with the conduct of Question 11, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Jens Ejner Christensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143154	It is the clear policy of the Left, and it has been the intention of the Left to raise this debate that there should be a greater financial gain for the lowest-paid by taking a job. Should I understand the Minister's view that this is also a policy towards which the government is working?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143217-2	Yeah. And it has succeeded, as I have said: for 99 per cent it is at least DKK 1,000, and for a very large percentage it is a larger amount. So that is what we are working towards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143234	Thank you. The next question for the Minister for Employment is Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143244	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister think that more needs to be done to ensure that work pays better?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143258	As I just said, we would like to give incentives, but I think that what divides the water between the questioner and the government is that we do not want there to be poverty in Denmark, we do not want children to grow up in poverty. The clues from the ceiling on cash benefits introduced by the previous government scare too many children simply to grow up in poverty. I'm glad we've gotten rid of that, because it was an important thing to do. I know it's unnecessary to say that to Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen, but then I say it to those who have to listen to, namely that the cash aid system is not a roof-top table. Sometimes you can get the impression of this when you hear the debate. What we have done together, moreover, is to ensure that when you are on a public service and are also ready to provide, you also have to be involved in it. I would like to continue this debate I think it has many exciting elements in it but, of course, it requires that those who are debating have something concrete to debate from, and therefore I look so much forward to the Left becoming more concrete in terms of what plus words a modern cash assistance system really covers. The day it is revealed will be a very good day, because then we can see Mr. Hans Andersen and I have a much better and more cash debate that the Danes can relate to. So I am genuinely delighted on the day when I and the people are told what a modern cash aid ceiling is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143423	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143425	I asked the Minister whether the Minister and the Government would continue to work to ensure that work is better worthwhile. I tried to listen very carefully to the answer, but there was no suggestion of it. In other words, you can interpret this as meaning that the government must then be satisfied with the situation we are in now, and I also heard that the Prime Minister, the other day, strongly emphasised what the benefits of the agreements we have concluded would be by 2020. But now we are in 2015, and now we have a discussion about whether it is reasonable that you can get an extra 6 kr. an hour by taking a job. Is that fair? That is, of course, why we are asking the question of whether the government also considers it reasonable and what the government will do to ensure that working is better worthwhile.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143529	I know, of course, that it is unnecessary to say, but the Left speaks a lot about the need to find money. Perhaps by lowering the cash benefits to lower the tax at the bottom, and there I just have to point out something. If you have to halve the number of people who get less than 2,000 kroner. in terms of going to work, how much does the tax at the bottom really have to be lowered? How much are we talking about? Yes, you have to increase the employment allowance by approx. 20 billion kr. What I'm just trying to say with this is that when the Left says that there's too little, that there's not enough, we don't get any answers as to what the Left wants. I have now made it very clear on many issues that I am pleased that this government has succeeded in bringing us into a situation where, for almost all people, there is an economic benefit from getting to work, apart from the fact that it offers the opportunity to get to work, to get to work, to have pension schemes, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143625	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143627	However, we did not come any closer to an answer as to whether the government will take new initiatives. The government, together with the Left, has made a tax agreement, and it says where it stands, and then you can sit and wait for it to be fully implemented by 2020. But we just have a problem today with people who are on cash aid, where finding a job is not attractive enough, and that is why we ask the government: will the government take further initiatives? And so far, I haven't heard anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143710	Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143712	That's right, sir. Hans Andersen says that the tax reform we have agreed on improves the situation year by year. I have said very clearly that I am very pleased that we have come into the situation that, in addition to the duty, there is now also an economic incentive to enter the labour market. Then I have also used a few words to say how much it means for people to enter the labour market, in other words that they want to do so and all the other things in this regard. I'm just trying to look a tiny bit for something, since the Left won't tell me what a modern cash relief ceiling is because it obviously can't be done. But at the same time, the Left says that the money they get will be used to raise the tax, and then I just ask: the 20 billion. If so, what kind of birds are they on the roof that the Left is talking about here? It's gonna be sorry, I'm gonna say it very unconcrect, because the Left is making this debate totally unconcrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143808	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Jens Ejner Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143812	But that is the case, the Minister says that we in the Left have presented two specific points which we believe can help to increase this incentive. We are talking about the taxation of the lowest-paid and we are saying that we must have our modern cash aid ceiling. However, these are two concrete measures and things, without being concrete about how we should cut the cake in relation to the individual amounts. I'd like to ask you something. The Minister said before that the Minister kindly agreed that it was good to increase the incentive, if nothing else, for the last percentage, for which the Minister says we need to increase the incentive. What exactly does the government intend to do in order to increase the incentive, let us say only for the last one percent, which has not yet been addressed in the reforms that we have otherwise made together?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143918	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311143919	Maybe I think it's a little amazing that sir. Jens Ejner Christensen starts by saying that the Left has, however, been concrete: we have pointed out that the tax has to be lightened at the bottom and that there needs to be a modern cash aid ceiling. That was the concrete one. I referred to the co-questioner just now, sir. Hans Andersen. If it is the case that we are going to have a gain of over DKr 2 000, then the employment allowance must be increased by 20 billion. kr. Is that the concrete amount that the Left is going for now, Mr President? Jens Ejner Christensen is so specific? Since it's the case, sir. Jens Ejner Christensen thinks he's concrete, so just put two words on it with a modern cash aid ceiling. That would, of course, help a little in relation to the concrete and to understand where the positions of the Left are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144007	Then it's mr. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144008	But since this is now called questions to the Minister, I am trying to ask you one more time. If it is the case that we put in the premise that, after all, there is a percentage at the end, which we have not jointly been able to increase the incentive to take a job, what has the government specifically thought of by measures to get closer to the one percent where we need to increase the incentive to go out and take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144037	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144039	But it is true that these are questions to the ministers, and I shall also endeavour to answer them. But when Mr. Jens Ejner Christensen says that you have been concrete, so I think it was very sensible to catch that ball in the air, because it was not that concrete. Finally, I would like to say that there is also a little misunderstanding in the way the question is being asked. It is not the case that it is a roof-top self-boarding to be on cash benefits or for that matter on cash benefits. If it is the case that you are ready for work, you have to take a job, no matter what. And I think that is actually a good and important principle, on which I hope we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144118	Thanks to the co-author. Then it's the questioner, sir. Hans Andersen, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144124	Thank you. In a written reply, the Minister has told me that if you have this family, where two are on cash benefits, then one is going to make 37 800 kroner. a month to get an extra prize of DKK 1,500. a month. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable to • 37 800 kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144156	I do not think that I have ever tried to give the impression that this was easy. And I think that conflict, in terms of how we also protect children and children's families, etc., is not a new conflict, it has always been there. What I am just delighted about is that in the past one had to make a very large amount of money in order to have a positive effect at all. We have now succeeded in ensuring that there is an effect in relation to an HK minimum wage agreement. And I would say that it is also jobs that are within reach. And then there is adding, and I think we can agree that getting a foothold in the labour market is almost always the way to getting a better salary and better conditions at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144244	Thank you, that question is closed. Then we go to the next question, and it is also from Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144253	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister think that DKr 470? is a month sufficient incentive to work rather than not to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144307	I hope that Mr. Hans Andersen will understand what I am saying now, because it is not an expression of resentment. But I don't know where that number, 470 kroner, comes from. Just before I went to the Chamber, I once again tried in my system to find out whether this is a figure that I have to relate to in some way or other. So I would like to say so that it cannot be misunderstood: it is not unwillingness or polemics or anything else, but I simply have not been able to find out where the figure is 470 kr. Come from. When I can find out, I would also very much like to answer it, so it is not an expression of resentment, but it is simply ignorance that does so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144347	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144348	I look forward to further clarification. But in what should we say, the same street, the Minister has answered my question No. 92 in relation to providing cash benefits for two children. And the example is that the breadwinner gets a job for 17,000 kroner. a month, and there's the benefit of taking that job zero if you're on cash benefits and have two children. The amount of availability does not change when you take a job for DKK 17,000. a month. It is quite close to the minimum wage, which is indicated everywhere and which is part of the debate, and which the Minister also uses in terms of examples in the answers. Is it reasonable to find a job where the wage is so close to the minimum wage that you still have to find that the gain is equal to zero by taking a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144458	Then it's the minister to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144500	I'm sure it's too bad, but again, I'd like to apologize to Mr. Simpson. Hans Andersen. I have sent quite a lot of answers, and I think I have tried to understand it fairly well, but I just do not recognize it there, and therefore, if I am to give anything that looks like a qualified answer as a minister, I simply regret that I cannot. It is not because I do not want to, and I should like to come back or reply in writing, but I simply cannot remember that answer in detail. I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144531	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144533	Thank you. Then I would like to ask the Minister the following question. In the example, it is stated that if the person on cash benefits finds a job of DKK 19,000, the person before paying for transport, and before taking care of the children outside opening hours, etc., will have extra for himself in the month DKK 1,000. That's if you find a job for $19,000. If you find a job for 17,000 kroner. And does the Minister think that is fair? I just want to say that I'd like to guess that the prize is less than the $1,000, and then we have a problem here. Does the Minister think that we are in the finish line when we talk about making it more attractive to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144626	I respect the questioner, I respect the Folketing, and I respect the law of ministerial accountability. That is simply not an objection, I would say to Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen, but I cannot remember in my head the situation of what may be of special relationship with the single parent, as Mr. Hans Andersen mentions, and therefore, in respect of the things I said before, it is not dislike, but then I just very much do not want to go into that debate. When I'm dressed for it, I would, of course, like to go into the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144703	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Jens Ejner Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144706	I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144711	I'll let the main questioner finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144713	Thank you. I look forward, of course, to continuing the written dialogue on this in order to ensure that I have clarified the dilemmas and the issues and what to say is very little reasonable, which is that for many people it still does not pay to find a job. In this debate, and I have to ask the Minister whether the Minister agrees with us, there is a shortage when we talk about this, because it has to pay to work, because the amounts we are talking about where the Minister has mentioned the DKK 1000. and DKK 2 000, if you are two in the family, is, of course, before you have paid for the transport, and it is, of course, before you have made sure that you can also have a child care if you are working on skewed working hours, for example. And there are a large number of other costs involved in working. Then the Minister continues to think that it is reasonable that you only get DKK 1,000. extra out of taking a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144827	Well, I have to say that it also applies when you get a job, that you, among other things. I think that at a later stage in your life you will really like the way you don't get if you're on cash benefits. An experience that I believe both Mr. Hans Andersen and I have, is that when you enter the labour market, you can often start on a relatively modest salary. But then it also means that you often work your way up to better conditions. This is how the Danish labour market works. So this is the kind of winning case I think is sensible. I would just like to say once again that I am pleased that we have come into a situation in which, apart from being obliged to work, it is also financially worthwhile.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144911	Thank you, the question has been answered. The next question is Mrs Inger Støjberg, and that is a question for the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144921	Thank you. When the Minister has said several times that a married couple on cash benefits over 30 years of age with children will be able to earn DKK 2,000. extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311144948	I would like to confirm that I think Inger Støjberg has a case here, which we probably do not see very often, namely that in the same month two people who are on cash benefits should get into employment. It probably exists, but I think Mrs Inger Støjberg is right in saying that this is probably not the ordinary situation. But the couple gets a prize of DKK 1,000. after tax per month, if one is employed and receives a salary equal to HK's minimum wage. And as I said, if both get into employment, that's 2,000 kroner. I think for the family we're talking about here, 2,000 kroner. a lot of money, and 1,000 kroner. It's also something that's freaking out in everyday life. As I have also said sometimes along the way, it is the case that the cash assistance system is not such a free choice system. If you are ready for work, you have to take a job. This is a principle which I believe we broadly agree with in the Folketing. So to the main question, whether it is the usual situation for two in a married couple to take up a job in the same month, I would say that I think Mrs Inger Støjberg is right in saying that this is not the situation we see mainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145059	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145100	Yes, and that is why we can also say that this is going to be a rather weird discussion just about the DKK 2 000. The problem, of course, is that in this government's time, and at least since the government demolished the ceiling on cash aid, there has been about 2 000 deaths. 2,000 extra married couples, both on cash benefits. And that is, of course, despite the fact that the government has repeatedly said that things are going much better in the labour market and that the incentives are in order. If the incentives to take up a job were in order and the labour market was improving, as the Minister has so often said with the other government, what is the Minister's explanation for the fact that the number of married couples on cash benefits has been steadily increasing under this government? Because it is a real problem when both are on cash benefits, precisely because, as the Minister has also said several times, you are not part of the community. And we know that if you have a married couple on cash benefits, the risk that their children will also end up on cash benefits is imminent. We know that from studies. So that's a real problem. But if it really was the case that the incentives were in order and that the labour market was improving, why have there been about 2,000 extra married couples on cash aid since the government tore down the ceiling on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145239	It is true that we tore down the ceiling on cash benefits. That is actually a very precise way of expressing it. We did, among other things. Because the ceiling on cash benefits helped to make 2,700 children live in poverty. In fact, I am quite comfortable with the fact that it no longer exists in Denmark. I believe that one of the values we have in Danish society is that we care about children and we care about families with children. So have we done well enough in relation to the more general question raised by Mrs Inger Støjberg on the social heritage, etc.? No, I completely agree that we do not. But what we have done is that we have ensured that when you get the opportunity to get into employment, you have to do it first, and secondly there is an economic benefit to it. After all, I think that is a good step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145327	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145328	I understand that the Minister thinks that the economic incentives are good enough as they are. There I can just say that we in the Left have a vertical disagreement. I do not think that the incentive is right, and that is precisely why we want to introduce a new and modern ceiling on cash aid and, at the same time, lower taxes at the bottom. It seems almost as if the Minister is proud of the fact that the ceiling on cash aid was being demolished, and then the Minister justifies it by saying that there were 2,700 children living in poverty, as the Minister says. I would rather these 2,700 children saw their parents entering the labour market. It is, of course, there, I think, that the government is making a mistake, because it creates a system that means that far too many people are excluded from the labour market. That is why I think the government should actually listen to us instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145416	Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145417	In fact, I believe that Mrs Inger Støjberg is well aware that the ceiling on cash benefits had little effect on getting into employment. Actually, I think she's aware of that. But it had an effect on 2,700 children in their everyday lives. There it clearly had an effect. Then I will just have to say once again that we are drifting around to lighten the tax at the bottom and a modern cash aid ceiling, and I would just like to appeal once again for a proper, proper, sensible and cash debate. That is what we will get at the moment that the Left reveals what lies behind a modern ceiling on cash aid and how it is financed to make tax cuts at the bottom. When the Left becomes precise in their policy areas, we can have a very good debate for the benefit of the political debate in Denmark and for the benefit of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145506	Then it's the enquirer, sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145507	Thank you. It may be because the government, the minister, has either not been aware of it or will not recognise that the number of married couples on cash benefits is going the wrong way. Because there was no response from the government to how to improve this situation. This has only gone the wrong way in recent years, and neither the families nor we can be served with it. The question is, what will the government do about it? We have here a situation where a family gets DKK 454,215 and where they have very limited incentive to take a job. So what is the government and the Minister's solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145618	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145619	I do not agree that it has gone the wrong way. I am glad that in recent years more than 40,000 jobs have been created. This contrasts slightly with the time when we had the previous government. Unfortunately, we lost thousands of jobs, not least industrial jobs. Fortunately, we have managed to fight back a little in relation to it. Then it is true that we have also experienced some economic conditions and that we have seen that there has been an increase in the approach of people with a non-western background to Denmark, whether they are family reunifications or they are refugees. And we can also look at some of the figures. I haven't been hiding that kind of thing. But I am also a little concerned that it has actually succeeded in creating some momentum in Denmark. We are on the way, as the Prime Minister explained yesterday in this Chamber, in economic policy in general, and that is one of the crucial points to keep our hands under, so that we do not start experimenting with it, precisely so that the group we are spending our time talking about here today will have better opportunities to get back into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145720	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145721	But the Minister is not dealing with the problem we are discussing right now; in other words, the Minister is beginning to talk about the general situation and the employment situation in the country. But here we are talking about married couples on cash benefits, and there has been an increase, a marked increase, in recent years. And there are no solutions that I am listening to; that is what the Minister is replying to. There are no incentives and measures to ensure that these people can just show that they want to be role models, because it is not worth going to work. I'll give you less than six kroner. out of taking a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145806	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145807	I do not agree that it is not worthwhile to go to work, nor do I agree with it, as it is like being interpreted that you have the choice in relation to it. If you are on transfer income and you are ready for work in Denmark, you have to take on a job, it is outside discussion, and therefore I do not agree that working is not worthwhile either. I have just shown many times today that there is too far, by far, the vast majority, 99%, a cash prize of DKK 1,000. By going to work. Then I am trying to say, also because I am a little proud of it, that the policy pursued by this government has actually meant that we now have a society that is more coherent than it did before we had the present government. I think it is a good thing to brag about that once in a while. It's not often you get the chance to do it, but when sir... Hans Andersen asks questions like this, you get the opportunity to do so, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145855	Then it's Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311145858	Yes, but basically our question to the Minister today is, of course, whether I personally do not think we have a society that is better connected when there are 2 000 extra married couples who are on cash aid. I do not think that gives a greater coherence, and I think it is a crooked Denmark that we are building up when it is not always worth working. I don't think that 1,000 kroner. a month is a lot to get out of working. And yes, the Minister is right, by the way, when the Minister gives me so that we are back to where we started. I do not think, and the Left does not think, that the incentives are in order when too many people have a very, very poor financial gain from working when you get DKK 1,000. out of work. And then you have to deduct the transport costs and other costs. So that is very little, I would say to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150012	Minister of Employment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150013	I do not agree that we are having a skewed society. In fact, we have corrected the biased society introduced by the previous government, in which Mrs Inger Støjberg was also a minister, where, among other things, there were. were poor children in Denmark, so I do not agree with that. The second is that we have succeeded in ensuring that the vast majority also have an economic benefit from going to work. I understand why Mrs Inger Støjberg and the Left think that this incentive is far too low, and that is something we are not hiding. It is thought that 6 kroner. in the hour or how to define it is all, far too low, that there is far too little incentive. I am simply asking that we should have a slightly more real debate, and as I believe that Mrs Inger Støjberg agrees with me that the money does not come flying down from the sky: where is it that this money should be provided to give the increased incentive? Is it the cash aid that needs to be put down again? Is it the employment allowance that needs to be increased? Where's the money coming from? We can have a sensible debate on this, but it requires that the Left and Mrs Inger Støjberg also play out what is actually the Left's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150119	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the Minister for Employment and to the authors. Then we go to the next question, and that is Question 15 to the Minister for Education by Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150138	Will the Minister strengthen the supervision of Muslim free schools after BT revealed on 24 February 2015 that it was a Muslim free school teacher, Naji Naji, and his association, who was behind the arrangement with a mosque and an invited imam, who in his sermon called for war against Jews?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150200	Here you go, the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150203	I would like to thank you for your question, because it also gives an opportunity to clarify again, as it has also been the debate in several contexts, that all free primary schools, regardless of their ideological or religious background, must comply with the provisions of the Free School Act. And I would just like to say what the two key demands are in the free school law, because it is good to have as a premise for the discussion here. It is that they must provide a teaching that is in line with what is usually required in primary school, and then, according to their purpose and throughout their activities, the schools must prepare the pupils to live in a society such as Danish with freedom and folk rule and develop and strengthen students' knowledge and respect of fundamental freedoms and human rights, including gender equality. These are really important and fine wordings, and this applies to all free schools, of course also to religious free schools. It is the case that if schools fail to comply, they will not be entitled to State subsidies. However, as I have understood from the article in BT referred to, this is a free school teacher who, in his spare time, is in charge of what is called the Association of Islamic Culture and Knowledge, and it should then be the association behind that event on 24 February. It is an event which was not at the school but in the association's premises, and therefore I have no basis for assessing whether they could not have held that event in those premises. You can do that. As soon as there is a suspicion that the activities of a school do not comply with what the law says, including about democracy and equality, we can intervene. That is what I can do as a minister and what we always do. But this is an event that hasn't had anything to do with school business.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150342	The questioner, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150345	Thank you. After all, we have discussed these things in the past, and we have done so because there are a large number of problems with Muslim free schools which regularly appear in the media. And the Minister has always answered the same question kindly and always: free schools, including Muslims, must comply with the law, and that is true, they must, and it is good that she points it out. The problem is, of course, that you can assume that some free schools may have two faces on the outside to the public and the ministry and another face on the inside to the pupils and to Muslim parents who send their children to school. There are people in the environment who have revealed this sort of thing. We can refer to Ahmed Akkari, the famous Muslim in Denmark, who has been a free school teacher in several free schools, and who has just described the two faces of the free school environment in the Muslim environment: an official face externally, to the supervision, to the municipality, who said all the right words: tolerance, inclusiveness, we live up to the law, we like to be in Denmark, we do as you say, and then another face that worked in the opposite direction. Here we have a free school teacher who, in his spare time, arranges meetings with imams that encourage war against Jews and at the same time teach 6th grade students. Does the Minister really not think that it is time to tighten up supervision when we have these cases time and time again? There are a number of isolated cases gradually with Muslim free schools. So Naji Naji, the teacher, teaches at this Muslim free school. Does this really not give us reason to take a closer look at the free school in the cards?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150545	Then it's the minister for answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150547	Now I would like to stress again that the event that has been written about in BT has had nothing to do with a Muslim free school. It's happened somewhere else. However, this does not change the fact that the education taking place in a Muslim free school or in all sorts of other free schools must measure up to the primary school's professional content and live up to democracy, equality and so on. And if there is a suspicion that it does not, there are a number of mechanisms that can be put into play. There is the supervisor, there may be external supervision, and we, as supervisors, can also go in with a notified or unannounced supervision if we are tipped off that there may be problems. So there are a number of mechanisms that can be put into play. But the specific case in BT has nothing to do with a Muslim free school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150640	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150641	So let me try a comparison. Let us now imagine that there is a free school teacher who is a Nazi in his spare time and who arranges meetings that encourage gas killings on Jews as we know it from World War II; it happens in leisure time and everyone is outraged, and it comes in the media. The next day he goes to his free school and teaches history. Would the Minister then have the same tolerant attitude towards the free school that employs this teacher?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150715	Now it is a thoughtful example that the questioner gives. But it will always be the case, and that is what is in the free school law, that if there is a suspicion that we are not fulfilling the fundamental objectives of both professional content and democracy, equality and so on, and if we are asked to do so, there are, as I have said, both the internal supervisory mechanisms and the external supervisory mechanisms, including the fact that our supervisory board can enter both notified and unannounced and, on the basis of it, examine a whole concrete suspicion that teaching is not in line with the fundamental objectives. This also means that if there is a teacher who does not measure up to professional content and what must be in relation to democracy and equality, one will be able to go in. But of course this presupposes that some people say: we do not believe that it is going to happen as intended here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150805	There is one from the Danish People's Party here who says that we do not believe that it is happening entirely as intended. The Minister is being asked to do something about it. I recognise that the Minister is very inclusive. I am not sure that I am so spacious, especially when it comes to some of these Muslim free schools, precisely because they have two faces. But now the Minister is being asked to do something about it. Will the Minister do so after I, Alex Ahrendtsen, have asked the Minister to take a closer look at the free school in the maps?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150839	The Minister of Rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150840	I would just like to point out quietly once again that the specific example to which I was asked is that of someone who in a room has nothing to do with the free school, as part of his association activity has expressed itself on various matters and matters. This has nothing to do with the actual free school. If there is a specific suspicion in relation to education or to democracy and equality in the free school in question, that is another matter, but that is not the case in the case of BT, on which the questioner has raised questions here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150914	That concludes the question. We'll go to the next question. It's the same question, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Question No. 16.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150925	Why does the Minister break the public school settlement by amending the primary school law by avoiding the conciliation parties in the case of the municipal international schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311150937	I would like to stress that, of course, we could not dream of breaking a settlement. We think it is incredibly important and valuable that we have conciliation circles, among others. on primary school, and appreciate the cooperation we have with all the parties involved in the conciliation circle. But not all areas of school are regulated by the primary school law. Municipal international primary schools have their own primary law. If we are to say what the history is, we can say that they are also based on the main law of free primary schools. They have their own law, and the free primary schools are not in a position to settle. It is agreed, and that is to say, a majority is needed to change what is of legislation for the free primary schools. This is a new main law because it is a new type of institution, but it is based on many of the principles of the law on free primary schools. I am just saying this to stress that, of course, we could not dream of breaking the public school settlement. And by the way, I appreciate the cooperation we have in the conciliation circle, also with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151037	Then it's the questioner, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151040	So let's sum up why we're actually standing here. The Danish People's Party, together with the government and other parties, negotiated the six parties behind the primary school agreement and for 7 months we negotiated. During the six months we also talked about international schools and lines as part of the negotiation paper from the government. Until May 2013, there were two sections on international schools and lines in the draft agreement. They finally fell out because the Danish People's Party could not say yes to the primary school agreement unless they came out. That's the way it is when you negotiate: you take and you give. So these international schools and lines were part of the debate, and they were indeed part of the overall agreement that we made with each other. In other words, it was a prerequisite for the agreement that they were withdrawn and that we did not go in and make changes or agreements in that area. What then happens is that the government subsequently makes a bill on municipal international schools, which is an independent bill, but which nevertheless affects the primary school law. How, then, can the Minister say that this has nothing to do with the public school settlement and that this has nothing to do with the primary school law, and how can the Minister claim that there is no breach of the settlement? For normal practice in the Folketing is, of course, that if a party or the government makes a legislative proposal, which there are conciliation parties behind, and does not talk with those parties, then the other parties can consider the settlement terminated. Firstly, will the Minister not confirm the progress I have outlined and, secondly, confirm that this is normal practice in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151246	It is quite true that the government, as part of the primary school law, wanted a municipality to decide to set up an international primary school, which was simply a primary school, but where, of course, there were some other possibilities in terms of language. This means that it would fully live up to everything in the primary school law. The Danish People's Party opposed this. Both the government and the other conciliation parties felt this was extremely regrettable, because we would have liked to have given the opportunity to get some regular international primary schools as a follow-up to the primary school law. But we acted in respect of the fact that the Danish People's Party was against it, which I find quite difficult to understand, because it is something that is sought after in the municipalities and something that helps to create growth in the municipalities, that is to say that you have foreign employees. But the Danish People's Party didn't want that, and that's too bad. Then we took it out. What we have then done is to make a completely different kind of school offer based on the principles of free primary schools. So you don't have to live up to the primary school law. There is no change in relation to the primary school law because of the free international primary schools which are at issue here. They have their own primary law with some other degrees of freedom than primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151347	Thank you. Then it's the questioner, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151350	It is not quite true that the primary school law is not being changed. After all, there will be a technical change to the primary school law. The Minister himself said so in an answer to me. This also affects the public school settlement, because if you have to change the primary school law, you have to talk to the conciliation parties. It's not like it's a rooftop table. So will the Minister not just confirm 1) that there will be a small change, a so-called technical change in the primary school law, and 2) that it will then also mean that the conciliation parties will have to be involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151426	Then it's the minister for answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151427	Now, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen is a seasoned politician and therefore also knows that technical changes are something that happens in legislative proposals across the board. It doesn't change the substance of a bill. That is why there is a parallel to this, namely when it was decided that I think it was against the votes of the Danish People's Party that a European school could be set up which, fortunately, has now been opened in Copenhagen. Similarly, it has its own law. There are some technical changes, but this does not change the substance of the primary school law. There are some technical changes here, but it's a different form of school. Unfortunately, you cannot create a regular international primary school, which prevented the Danish People's Party, but the free school law, which is a special law, has been used as a model. It will then be a slightly different school offer than what we wanted, but a step forward for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151508	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151510	Well, I'm gonna have to maintain that the government has terminated the school settlement. I have to maintain that there is a change in the primary school law. I have to say that it was part of the basis for the negotiations and that it went out and therefore it was also the basis for the agreement we reached. That is the prerequisite for us to have a primary school agreement. The government has terminated the settlement. Is the Minister not concerned about what happens after an election, when the government itself has terminated this public school settlement and all parties are now free to change the primary school law as it suits them, should there be a new majority after an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151545	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151546	Of course, the government couldn't dream of terminating the settlement. A party can choose to resign from the settlement. I do not therefore call on the Danish People's Party to do so, and I would just like to say quietly that, since we had the debate at first reading on the international municipal primary schools, none of the other parties in the conciliation circle had an experience of circumventing the primary school settlement, for all sorts of good reasons, because we have not done so. It is an independent law, it is a different kind of school offer, and that is why, of course, the primary school settlement is completely and completely unanticipated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151617	Thank you. The question has been answered. Then we go to the next question, which is Question 17 to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Karsten Nonbo from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151629	Thank you, and this question has not been asked to bother the Minister, but rather in impatience to be able to help the Minister, and I would like to say that this is, of course, our joint project: the upcoming motorway between Næstved and Rønnede, where I am a little impatient, and that is why the question is this: when will the Minister in the Green Conciliation Committee discuss a step-by-step study, financing and construction of the north-facing ramps at Ulse, and then we will be talking about the South Motorway, as the Minister in answer to the Transport Committee's question 216 has indicated as an opportunity, and as the Left, by mail of 22 January 2015, from Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, has asked to be on the agenda in the Conciliation Committee at the next meeting? Because this is the case and that's why I'm so impatient that these Urseramps are part of the project, and if we finish them before we start all the other things, we save a lot of re-driving, so we save a lot of extra work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151735	Thank you. Then it's the minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151737	Thank you very much for this question and for the introduction here. As a background, I can say that in 2009 in the conciliation circle we set aside 2 million. kr. for a feasibility study of an upgrade of route 54 from Næstved to Rønnede. The north-facing ramps at Ulse were part of the feasibility study carried out by the Road Directorate in 2011-12. In June last year, in the conciliation circle, we agreed to launch an EIA study on route 54, Næstved-Rønnede, and in November 2014, I then sent draft terms of reference for the EIA study to the conciliation circle. As you know, the establishment of the north-facing ramps at Urse is part of this mandate, as the questioner also mentions. There was a green light from the conciliation circle, and the further work on the EIA study is then started. Now we are asked whether the ramps can be pulled out of the whole EIA study. I want to make it quite clear that it is the case that we in the conciliation circle have agreed that the ramps at Urse should be examined, but the question is how extensive environmental studies are really needed. There is, of course, no reason to do a full EIA process for the ramps if there is no need for it, and that is why I am replying to Mr Tugendhat. Karsten Nonbo, that I would ask the Road Directorate to initiate an environmental screening of the project. It could be implemented much faster than an EIA, i.e. within six months, and provide the necessary clarification. Then we can look at it then. Then we shall also be told whether it is an EIA duty and then we shall have to do so. And if it is not, I would suggest to the conciliation circle that it can then be withdrawn from that EIA study. And so I hope that I will respond to Mr. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151924	Then it's the questioner, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151926	Well, Minister, I hardly want to ask any more, because that was the answer I wanted, but I still have this question: when could this EIA screening start? For the Minister is quite right that it may also end with the result that they say: "Whoa, whoa, that was not enough; there is still an EIA study to be carried out. But if the screening is enough which the minister and I do agree on; I think at least deep down, that's enough when it's two ramps close up a highway • When can the screening possibly begin?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311151959	Well, it has to be said that we are making a lot of ramps, including in the context of the new conciliation. It is not always the case that we carry out EIA studies on them, it is of course up to a professional assessment, and we must then rely on it. But it has to be said that it is not usually the case that at least per year. Automatically must be a very large EIA study in relation to ramps, that is absolutely right. Now this is the first time I have said it, so I want to say that after this debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber, I will go to the Ministry and see to it that the Road Directorate gets this message.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152029	Then it's the questioner, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152031	I just want to sign, 'cause that sounds amazing. Because the advantage is that if we can get the screening now, we can pull the ramps out of the EIA study and make them by next year, so that they are finished when a bill on the motorway itself is finished, and then they can become a sort of shortcut. After all, the minister is well aware that in relation to Køge, at Næstved, at the roundabout etc., the old Køgevej has been moved and put right next to it and has now removed it again. And it costs some money to build a new road and then remove it again. But I thank you for the answer, that's what I needed. All I have to do is put action behind the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152111	Then it's the minister of rounding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152113	Well, it is excellent that we can also provide concrete answers to the specific cases that are being raised here. So I think that is also satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152122	Thank you. Then the question is over. Then that is the next question to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, whom I cannot see in the Chamber. Then we move on to Question 19, which is addressed to the Minister for Transport by Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152149	Thank you. It is on the basis of stories that Banedanmark should be in the process of investigating to shift the track between Copenhagen and Ringsted bypassing Ringsted Station, which is a bit surprising. I therefore ask the Minister for Transport whether the Minister considers it an acceptable solution to bypass the railway tracks around Ringsted Station.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152212	Thank you for the question. I have based my answer on the point that the question refers to the fact that, in connection with the idea-phase consultation of a level-free merge east of Ringsted Station, Banedanmark has received a hearing reply on the possibility of driving the railway around Ringsted. I don't know the exact content of this hearing answer. I have only seen it in the media, so I cannot go into a specific assessment, such a professional assessment, of it. From what I can read in the local press, the proposal does not mean that the track will be closed down through Ringsted, but the proposer proposes some sort of by-pass, a kind of by-pass for freight trains and certain passenger trains, which would then have to bypass the city. But we must wait for such a substantive and purely professional assessment of the proposal. When you have such an idea consultation phase, we have to take in all the ideas and deliver a professional consultation. I also heard the questioner asking about my personal opinion. With respect for the fact that we have set a process in motion, and we must of course give an answer and make an assessment of all the questions that come in, I would say that it does not sound realistic at all, that it could provide the answers to the problem we are dealing with. In addition, I can imagine that the financial sums we are talking about are astronomical. But we can all learn more about this when we can read the report from Banedanmark, which also becomes externally quality-proof, and then it may be that we are both right: that there are far more disadvantages than there will be benefits from this idea, which has thus come in from a citizen in the idea phase.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152400	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152404	Thank you for your reply and thank you for saying that the Minister does not immediately see that it is realistic. That's kind of what I want. I am asking for a political statement, because the Minister is the political authority over Banedanmark and is thus also able to control these things. And it seems very illogical to spend time investigating a solution that doesn't address the central issue at all, namely that we are talking about a train that has to go between Ringsted and Copenhagen, and it doesn't, of course, if it doesn't go to Ringsted. I therefore believe that it should be possible to reject it from the outset and say that it does not live up to the very heart of the matter, namely that it should be a railway line between Copenhagen and Ringsted. That is why I would like the Minister's political statement to make it quite clear, as head of this area, whether this makes any sense at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152455	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152456	Thank you. But it has also been met, and I think that is what I have delivered here. I just have to say that I think it would be completely wrong and also professionally far beyond the limits of what should be done as a minister if I went in and interfered in an idea and consultation phase where there is therefore citizen involvement. It says directly how we do it and we don't just do that here, we do that in many, many places in Denmark in connection with the EIAs and I quote here: All inquiries and ideas will be assessed. That is what it says directly, and when we promise it and have a consultation phase, it must of course also be the case that it will be assessed. Now my political and personal position is being asked, and I have expressed it. I believe that it is very, very little likely that this proposal has any realism whatsoever. But it is a proposal that has come in. Now it is being assessed, at an overall level, of course, but it must be done and that process must then take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152547	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152549	I am, of course, pleased that the Minister does not consider this to be realistic. I just think that the Minister, as Minister, can say that this is not realistic and then put a little more action behind the words "say that it is simply not realistic to make a solution between Copenhagen and Ringsted which does not go to Ringsted. It goes without saying that it does not meet the conditions. A train course between Ringsted and Copenhagen must also go to Ringsted. There's no point in riding around Ringsted. I can then tell you that I have seen the letter that has been sent from the researcher from DTU about this, and that is that you have to make a station outside Ringsted, and that a train path has to be established between Ringsted and that train station, as I understand it, so that the commuters can get there, and then it has to get into the normal lane at Fjenneslev. So this sounds like a very wrinkled solution, and I also think it should be rejected immediately because it is so unrealistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152641	Thank you. Minister of Transport for rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152642	Thank you. It was good to be enlightened about this. As far as I'm concerned, it's actually a pretty acclaimed traffic scientist. It may be that there are some traffic aspects in what is good. I can't judge that because I haven't seen the letter. But if that is the way the questioner has outlined it here, then it does not sound just expensive, it sounds mega-expensive and, as I said, I do not really see that it can solve any problems. On the contrary, it will create problems and be completely outside of what is possible to pay. But I also hope that the questioner understands that when we have a public consultation period with an idea phase, it is not the case that the Folketing should impose something on the minister or that the minister should go in and say something about an idea from a citizen, when we have written and said that all inquiries and all ideas will be answered and evaluated, of course, not quite thoroughly, but generally. Then this has to be done, too, because otherwise it would be such a berufsverbot, and we cannot afford to have that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152735	Thank you, Minister. The question has been answered. Then we go to Question 20 to the Minister for Transport by Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152751	It's a bit like the other one, but it goes a step further. Where the second question was about how the Minister's political attitude was more general, the question is this: Does the Minister believe that Banedanmark should use resources to investigate a track solution that leads the new tracks around Ringsted Station, Region Sjælland's second largest commuter station outside the old Capital Transport Company?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311152813	As we have touched on sporadicly on the last question, and as the questioner is also aware, it is quite common practice that the public and interested parties have the opportunity to comment on the work and make contributions along the way in connection with EIA studies. Citizens' involvement is therefore an important principle in the context of the EIA. It is entirely after the fixed road map and procedure that Banedanmark has prepared discussion papers for what is called the idea phase consultation on level-free merge east of Ringsted. That is where it appears and I quote: all inquiries and ideas will be assessed. The way we do this is absolutely standard, and I also think it makes sense to involve citizens. I know that this project has just begun after a citizen's visit. This shows a political interest in the matter, but it also shows that it is fine with citizens' references and that we take them seriously if they have realism in them. Now we're gonna check this out. But for this matter: the Ide phase consultation, together with the completed EIA study, must be externally quality-proofed as part of ensuring the best possible decision-making basis, and the framework for this external quality assurance is detailed in a task description prepared by the Ministry of Transport. This shows that all solutions received are assessed. So both the discussion paper and the mission statement have been sent to the Transport Committee and the Conciliation Committee on 8 January. So it is quite clear to everyone that we are of course doing what we are doing in these processes, namely that when there are solutions from citizens and here it was a professor, an expert and neighbors and others come up with ideas, they will all be assessed, and then you can look up and see them. I think there are indications that we are right in saying that this particular proposal has far too many drawbacks and does not solve the problem that the project is actually intended to solve. But we can look at that when we have this • what can we say about the assessment of the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153013	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153015	Thank you. After all, I fully agree that there is a consultation phase, and we cannot have any influence on who comes up with a hearing response. Everyone is welcome to do so. That's the whole point of a hearing. My question is more in the direction of whether it is more than just a consultation note. It is the question of whether to go further and to look into a solution which I think is politically unrealistic and which does not meet the specific issues we have politically agreed, among other things. that there should be a railway between Ringsted and Copenhagen. My question is whether the Minister will ensure that we do not start wasting tax money by examining a solution which is still not politically feasible. What we are standing here and agreeing on is that this is not a politically feasible solution, and then there is no reason to waste money on it either. Let us rather examine some of the solutions that are good and which are different solutions to how we least harm the different people who live there and how we ensure the best possible train operation in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153108	Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153110	I welcome the introduction to the question, because it is precisely true that it is an idea phase with a public hearing where we invite citizens' meetings, there are consultation portals, and discussion papers and project descriptions have been issued. Of course, when we invite people to come up with their ideas, it is not the case that we can say: hey, that idea is inappropriate; we will not make an assessment of it. We have to say that we will have an assessment of all the ideas that come in. Then you might ask: is it not a waste of money in relation to the ideas that do not come true? No, I do not think so, because it is part of ensuring that we make the best possible decisions and the wisest decisions here in the Folketing. So we do the same in all other projects. But I can say that this is an assessment, and it is therefore not a closer study, and it is not the way to make large reports about it. It's an assessment in line with the assessment of all the other ideas that come into these consultation phases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153205	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153207	Then I would like to hear from the Minister whether there will then be a political assessment of it before any further assessment is made of it. Is there going to be a consultation note, but before going into a greater calculation of how the solution can be done and you're going to spend a lot of money examining it in more detail an element about what is politically feasible and what is within this political framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153231	That's logical. As I have heard the proposal here described, it is a proposal for a new railway that goes many kilometres bypassing a rather large provincial town of Zealand, and for a simultaneous lane into the middle of the city, and that is how I can assess it. It's hard to do big calculations here in the Parliament hall. I can barely imagine anything else like that. We are not in any way entitled to do that in any way. So if, suddenly after this gross assessment of the ideas, it turns out that this is something that needs to be pursued, then we still have to make a political decision, because that will require huge decisions. That's how much I can deal with that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153318	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153320	Well, I am glad of the political statement made by the Minister, namely that if you want to go ahead with this, we will first take a political round and assess what is feasible. I thank you for that, but I hope we will not get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153334	Thank you. That concludes the question. Louise Schack Elholm is not allowed to answer?). I'm sorry, I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153341	I almost got a questioner who's satisfied with the answer. It's always great. And that's right, now this process has to run and then this assessment of the ideas that have come in. And I wonder if it will end with what we both believe, namely that there are some of the proposals, among others. This proposal, which is outside the disk we've set up for this work. But we'll see about that. It may be that we are being confirmed in it. I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153408	Thank you. Then I would like to know whether the Minister of Transport is willing to take Question No. 18, assuming it's pretty much prepared. Then we go to Question 18 from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153429	Thank you for that and thank you for your flexibility, President and Minister. What I would like to ask is, of course, whether the Minister, as recommended in the 2014 report of the Board of Technology, will work for a national strategy for drones.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153442	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153445	Thank you for that, I'm sorry, I just had to find out, yes, of course we take the question, that is logical. The Danish Board of Technology has recommended that a national strategy for the integration of drones in Danish society be developed in its report • Civile drones in Denmark • Civile drones in Denmark • Civide drones in Denmark • A national strategy for the integration of drones in Danish society • Civile drones in Denmark • Civile drones in Denmark • A national strategy for the integration of drones in Danish society • Civile drones in Denmark • Civile drones in The strategy must include measures for the development of legislation, as well as support for research and industry, and I would like, following my replies to the various questions put by the Committee on Transport, to explain in writing, but here orally, the work on drones. In the summer of 2013, the government set up an inter-ministerial working group to look in particular at the regulatory challenges of the spread of civilian drones in Denmark. The working group consists of representatives from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Business and Growth, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Transport together with the Danish Transport Authority. The status of the work of this working group is that the report has now been sent for approval by the ministries involved. Once all ministries have approved the report, it will be published and also submitted for consultation. I think it's important that we hear the industry in this, because probably there are some in the industry that are further ahead than some of our systems are. So it's fine that everyone in the business and everyone interested here is heard. When that hearing is completed, I will start a political debate on the matter. I look forward very much to reading both the working group's report and also the political discussion. I can say that this is, in fact, an issue of interest, not only in Denmark but also in the rest of Europe, because you can see that there is a rapid technological development which we must be ready for, and perhaps even be able to exploit, for the benefit of our societies. We must be ready for that, so I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153635	Thank you. Then it's the questioner, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153637	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. After all, I am very pleased that the Minister is expressing that this is an area in which there is a perspective, and that is an area in which the future can lie. I am also pleased to hear that the report which has been on the table for a long time is now apparently completely on the way. I assume that the Minister is also aware of some of the content, which is why I do not have an answer as to where the Minister is in relation to establishing a national strategy. It is very good to run a hearing, and it is very good to go out to the profession, but some of the things that are quite fundamental are in relation to the legislative and regulatory parts of this, where you can say that we need a national strategy. In view of the recent terrorist acts in Copenhagen, one could also say that an area where it was quite obvious to use this as soon as possible was on alert, in terms of being able to provide a quick overview of situations, in terms of helping to see what happens if there has been an accident, there has been a terrorist attack, there has been something else. So I think we should get started, and the sooner, the better. But I have such a little, unfortunately, an experience that it is dragging on. I mean, I got a reply from the Minister in December that the report came at the beginning of January. And by the beginning of February I was at a meeting with what is called UAS, Unmanned Aircraft Systems, that is, the association of the drones, where there was an official from the Traffic Authority who also said that now the report was like this. So, of course, I am becoming more and more curious to hear where the report is and what it says and, if so, whether the Minister really thinks and stands by that it is something we must do something about. When will the national strategy come? When will the initiative come to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153820	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153821	Thank you for the follow-up questions. I fully share the interest, and I can understand that we are asking for timetables and so on. The report deals with a wide range of issues, and this is also something that is rather complicated in relation to what else we have of regulation. So there are many stakeholders involved in the process. There are also many considerations to take across ministries. There is safety, it is clear, and privacy is also an important aspect. Then there is the protection against the illegal use of drones, while there is some commercial development. Now we are asked quite specifically where the status is and how far it has progressed. At this point I would like to say that not all ministries have been involved in the work of the working group which has yet approved the report, but the Ministry of Transport has approved it. The last ministry to approve the report is now the Ministry of Justice. That's the status I just got here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153918	Thank you. Then it's the questioner again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311153919	I still don't think I'm getting a very clear answer to what I'm asking. I think that, of course, there are a lot of issues in this, and I have no doubt that when it comes, the report will describe all the issues that need to be addressed, both in terms of security and in terms of privacy, etc. etc. But that is precisely why I believe that there is a need for a national strategy. An obvious subject, which I also mentioned, will of course be in relation to using it as a means of preparedness or allowing the preparedness to use it, it may be the police, it may be the fire department, it may be other areas. Yes, please! ) And it may be said: When will it come?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154001	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154004	It is clear that I will just wait for the final approval before I can comment on the content of the report. However, the report makes recommendations for an overall regulatory framework for civilian drones. That is what is in the presentation to the working group. It is therefore an overall regulatory framework in which to look at some of the aspects that I outlined earlier here, and probably also more. Then you can look at the need for action. After the report has arrived, we will then send it to consultation and then there will be the political debate. I look forward to it. I cannot say anything about preparedness, but if there are opportunities there, I am sure that this will also be highlighted in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154045	Then it is the questioner in the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154048	But I actually think that I will end with a very simple question. Will the Minister support the establishment of a national action plan for drones? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154100	Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154102	That certainly depends on what a national action plan contains. That's probably the content we need to focus on. The task here is to find an overall regulatory framework, i.e. how we regulate in all the different legislations and safety concerns we are now going to take here, in relation to the development of drones. I really think that is what is needed, and I can understand that also in the debate out there in the environment and in the business people I have talked to about it. So I really think there's a need for that. If, in addition, there is a need for action, we are very, very open and I have to say that at European level we are some of those who are at the forefront, and there is also an interest on the part of the European Union in hearing about what we will achieve in the work we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154142	Thank you for that, and this question has also been resolved. As previously announced, Questions 21 and 22 have been removed from today's agenda. Then the final question from Mrs Inger Løjberg to the Minister for Tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154200	Thank you. Will the government help ease the tax burden at the bottom of the lowest-paid so that they get more out of work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154210	Thank you for the question. The government has already given priority to lowering the tax for ordinary employees and thus increasing the benefit of getting a job. The government's 2012 tax reform was precisely aimed at increasing the benefits of being in a job and by providing additional work. It was adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing, including the Left. We provided for lower taxes at work, and we very much targeted the tax cuts to the low- and middle-income groups. The majority of tax reliefs thus meant an increase in the employment allowance, which benefits all the more than 3 million people in employment. At the same time, we increased the employment allowance for single parents. I'm proud of that. The employment allowance was increased by up to DKK 16,800. in 2015 level, so the gain from getting a job was increased by up to approx. 4300 kr. a year. This has given an ordinary employee DKK 360. more a month. The government has not given any further tax reductions. We should not spend every penny on tax reductions, because we must find a balance in which we also develop our welfare. That is why the government does not believe that zero growth is the way forward, but rather that we must develop our welfare. A modern and well-functioning public sector is a great strength for our societies, both for the quality of life of our citizens and, above all, for the competitiveness of our businesses. Our priorities for education, health and childcare also support production and employment in the private sector in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154349	Then it's the questioner, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154352	I guess that can be regarded as a no when the Minister says as he does. If you take the government's own figures, it is of course the case that even when the tax and cash aid reforms have all been fully phased in, it will still be the case that there are 250,000 Danes who have only a very weak economic incentive to work. Does the Minister think that's good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154425	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154427	There are two things: firstly, it is quite typical that Mrs Inger Løjberg does not actually listen to what I am saying as a minister, namely that we certainly do not exclude that we can look at the tax also at the lower end, but that we simply will not prioritise any available crown for it. It's just to make it clear. That is where Mrs Inger Løjberg is wrong. The second is that I think that there are a lot of people sitting out in front of the TV screens right now, and there are some who are sitting in here listening that is not so many, and I can really understand that thinking: I wonder if there really is a sense of reality inside that Parliament, because there are other advantages to going to work than just earning a few crowns. I know that I have been quite a few more years in the real labour market than Mrs Inger Løjberg has, but my experience is just that a lot of Danes do not recognize that reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154519	Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154520	In fact, I do not know whether the Minister has been on the labour market more years than I have been on the labour market, but I can at least say that I have also been on the labour market. Having said that, however, I think it is a little unfortunate, and perhaps a little strange, that a social democratic government is not more focused on precisely creating a labour market where it pays better to work. I fully agree that there is also more to going to work than just the money in itself and that you might be able to get more out of it. But the problem is, Minister, that even when both the tax reform and the cash aid reform have been implemented, there are 250,000 Danes who have very little economic incentive to work. That's creating a crooked system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154611	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154612	But we're also talking about what it takes in this context. We certainly do not exclude the possibility of going down a road where further incentives can be created. And this government, just like I said, has created incentives to get people into work. But I must also note that when I look at the Left's plans or rather considerations, as is the case there are no plans that can really be defined, one has to say that it is not, after all, because there seems to be galloping funding to make big tax cuts. For example, if you take the old cash aid ceiling, the 80 million. kr., which it can give in the Treasury, thus giving a cashier on the minimum wage a total tax reduction of 3 kr. a month. That's not very impressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154703	Then we turn to the co-questioner, who is Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154710	Thank you. The Minister will not rule out tax relief, but then adds that he will not use every dollar available for this purpose. After all, I think that the Minister should consider that even with the tax reform there will still be 250,000 people in Denmark who have a weak incentive to work. So is the question: does the Minister think that is good enough? Does the Minister not agree that there should be a greater economic incentive to take a job in the sense of the word? And does the Minister not agree that when we talk about tax relief at work, tax relief should be granted to those who have the lowest incomes? So what is the Minister going to do about that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154815	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154816	I think I have made it very clear that I find it incredibly sympathetic that we would like to reduce the tax at the lower end, contrary to what the previous government has done, namely to give some tax relief to some more wealthy ones. So it is very sympathetic, and it is also what this government has endeavoured to achieve and also carried out with the Left. But it must also be said that I believe that there are different definitions of what the incentive is. I know that the Left is a party which believes that 2,000 kroner. It's nothing special at all. But I have to say that out in the real world, on the other side of Christiansborg's thick walls, such gains are actually seen as relatively large amounts of money. As I have said, I will certainly not rule out the possibility that something can be done again in this area too, but I must also say that this requires that there should be funding that is sustainable. I know that it has to be said that there is no viable funding from the alternative, such as the Left Party. There is no plan, other than that some loose ideas have been outlined about doing something for the very weakest in this society and cutting down on their services, and I think this is, in fact, relatively unsympathetic, especially when we know that it really doesn't give much. 3 kroner. I do not think that this month will cause anyone to be particularly enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154941	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311154943	I just have to say that the government and the tax minister then find that 6 kroner. extra an hour is perfectly reasonable. That's what it takes. The government doesn't want to go any further. That's what it takes for more people to get to work. I just wanted to say that we have a vertical disagreement. It must be made more attractive to work, and we must note that the government has no plans to do anything about it. There's the obvious difference between the Left and the government. In fact, we want to make it more attractive to work, and we just have to note that the government does not want to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155021	Then it is the Minister with an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155023	Once again, we have to say that this presupposes that we actually have some money to do with it. If I understand the Left's plans correctly, it is about doing something about some transfer income, cutting them down, hitting the weakest in society, it has to hurt some families with children. Of course, you have to have the attitude to what you now have, but it is not, of course, because it gives a lot of money in the box. If you re-establish the old ceiling, it will give you the equivalent of 3 kroner. a month to a cashier. If you imagine, for example, that you are... would be able to get 600 million. kr. out of this, I would say that it is a larger amount, but it will still only give away what is equivalent to a package of liver pie of Stryhn's slightly better quality per month, and that is of course nothing. In relation to the incentives that Mr. Hans Andersen indicates it's nothing. It's infinitely a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155117	So it is the questioner, Mrs Inger Løjberg, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155122	When you listen to the Minister, we might as well give up and say that everything is as it should be. Never mind that there are 333,000 Danes who have very little incentive to work, and do not care that there are 46,400 people in Denmark who have less than DKK 1,000. in working a month, and bad that there are 17,700 people who do not get anything out of working but will get more out of being on public support. That is an incredibly strange attitude, and so, in fact, with a social democrat. In other words, as I see it, it is a question of creating a society in which there is a desire to work and where it is always worthwhile to work. But I can hear that it seems that we are looking at it very differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155211	Then it's the minister to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155212	This government has precisely created opportunities for action to a far greater extent than what the Left plans for, because we can only see that there is no coherent economic policy that supports more than DKK 3. 3 kroner. a month is nothing for a cashier. Why, on earth, should this provide a further incentive? Mrs Inger Løjberg is shaking her head, and I understand that very well, because that is not the case. Then, if you think that there is some more money that can be taken from cutting the benefits to the poorest families of children, you have to show an account. Then you have to show where the money's coming from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155256	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. That concludes the question and that concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155309	As previously announced, the examination of legislative proposals L 141 and L 142 has been withdrawn from the agenda. We shall therefore move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155326	The debate is open. The first speaker is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155342	Thank you. With this bill, we authorise the Minister of Transport to establish a level-free merge on the railway at Ny Ellebjerg. The bill is an improvement on the previously adopted construction law on the construction of a new railway between Copenhagen and Ringsted via Køge. It is a visionary and very large project for about 11 billion. kr. It is a project that will greatly benefit both distance traffic between the parts of the country and regional commuter traffic on Zealand. But the purpose of this add-on project, one might call it, at Ny Ellebjerg is to ensure a so-called conflict-free crossing of the Øresund railway and the new railway between Copenhagen and Ringsted. It provides a more robust and reliable train operation. The project brings about a clear improvement in the new railway between Copenhagen and Ringsted and the associated train operation, and this of course benefits passengers first and foremost, but also the rail freight transport, which is going to run in this place. Against this background, I should like to inform you that the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155500	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155507	On the socialist side, there is no doubt that the main objectives of transport policy are for us to have better trains, for us to have a more coherent train operation and for us to have a much better service to train passengers, and then, of course, we must also have much more goods on rail. So with this specific legislative proposal, where we are setting up a so-called level-free cut, we are ensuring that we can have greater regularity, greater flexibility, and that is a step in the right direction. As the rapporteur of the Left also said, when he also supported this, it is an improvement in the existing construction law in this area, it is a step in the right direction for rail, for public transport and for rail freight. This is something we can be proud of and satisfied with. There is no doubt that when you do a project like this, you will also be bothering some citizens along the way. Of course, this is not because we want to bother these citizens, but when we have to do something, it is going to be loud and loud, and that is why I, as the Socialist rapporteur, am pleased that there has been a close dialogue with the citizens concerned, and that in the colonial seas in particular we have been in dialogue and have been given the opportunity to have a spun wall to ensure that the noise nuisances are not so severe. So all in all, it is a very good proposal that lies here, which will improve Danish rail operations. We can all enjoy that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155643	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155651	Thank you. It is not often that I am standing here on behalf of this committee, but I have been allowed to do so today. The bill is about the establishment of level-free merge at Ny Ellebjerg with related facilities. The bill is the implementation of the agreement on a modern railroad. The level-free merge can be built for 357 million. DKK, which is planned to be financed by the Danish Railway Fund. The bill will reduce traffic disputes between the Øresund railway and the new runway Copenhagen-Ringsted by establishing a level-free crossing of the two tracks at Ny Ellebjerg. The level-free merge will allow for better regularity and more flexible roadmaps. At the same time, it is a prerequisite for the establishment of the Ring Syd project, which includes the establishment of a new fast train connection for distance and regional trains to Copenhagen Airport via Ny Ellebjerg Station. Since the Danish People's Party is part of the settlement on the Train Foundation DK, we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155752	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155759	The main reason why trains in Denmark are delayed or cancelled is that our infrastructure is inadequate and old-fashioned. Trains have to wait for each other because cows occur, just as you know from the roads. We are investing over the next 10 years in a total of over 110 billion. kr. in new and more modern railways in Denmark, simply so that trains can get on time so that trains can drive faster and so that we can drive more trains for the benefit of the thousands of people who want to take the train. The bill here involves a so-called level-free cutting at the Ny Ellebjerg Station in Copenhagen. Many may not see what such a bridge construction will mean for their everyday lives, but it is actually a crucial initiative for the entry and exit of Copenhagen to become more timely, more punctual, and therefore this project is extremely important in terms of creating better punctuality, more trains across Zealand both north, south, east and west and Copenhagen itself. The Radical Left is very happy with this bill and for this initiative and can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155919	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311155924	Thank you. The proposal is based, as the other rapporteurs have said, on the agreement reached by the Conciliation Committee on the implementation of the Togfonden DK, a project which the SF strongly supports. The change of Ny Ellebjerg Station, which is a subset of the agreement on the Togfonden DK and the new train connection Copenhagen-Ringsted, is justified and will have a number of valuable derivative effects on the entire capital and the entire Danish infrastructure. However, the concrete change that is now being proposed is also about people, not just those citizens who will experience a boost in the transport services when the whole of the Ny Ellebjerg hub is finished in a few years' time, but it will obviously affect the many citizens living in such a relatively densely populated area as Valby and the South Harbour, both during the construction period and in the future. That is why it is important to find the right solutions. We are also pleased with the chosen solution, which is of course about bridge-solving with spuns, because it will meet the wishes of the associations involved, so we warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160020	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160032	Thank you. The construction law of the Copenhagen-Ringsted railway, adopted in March 2010, did not actually provide a good solution to the problem of the important bottleneck at Ny Ellebjerg, despite the fact that several responses were then warned against the chaotic conditions and delays that would arise when more and more passenger and freight trains would be in the way of each other in the merge. So there is every reason to rejoice at the fact that there is now a level-free merge on the site and that it can be finished while the new runway for Ringsted is being used. It is rather strange, however, that the draft law is almost entirely justified on the grounds of a future Ring Syd connection. This is, of course, true for the direct trains from Roskilde to Kastrup, as you plan, but not for the much more and ever longer freight trains, which have been the great challenge ever since the project began. But that should not change our satisfaction with this project, which Enhedslisten has really been focusing on for quite many years and has also helped to bear through, including the financing of it via the Togfonden DK, and our satisfaction that it is now finally adopted. Of course, we also welcome the fact that we have listened to the garden associations' desire for a spun wall instead of the much more space-consuming dam, because this means that most of the valuable garden associations can be preserved as they are. The merge is located in densely populated areas, and there are many reasons why extra sacrifices need to be made to avoid noise and vibrations from intense train traffic. The Enhedslisten agrees with the requirements for much better noise protection set out in e.g. Valby local committee hearing response. The bill states that it is not the practice to reduce noise in schools and recreational areas, which is a significant deficiency in this otherwise very good project. Why are schools where children and adults spend many hours every day not covered by noise regulations? Surely it is not the case that there is even a ban on noise reduction in schools and recreational areas? People live in garden associations for most of the summer months and therefore, in our opinion, must also be able to be treated in the same way as the noise regulations that apply to ordinary villa areas. We find it problematic that the response to vibration genes should concentrate mostly on what is happening in the plant phase and not in the operating phase. There should be, for example: vibration mats are used along the most exposed points in the merge, that is, where the track is closest to inhabited areas. It is therefore not difficult to foresee the significant vibration nuisances, such as: will occur close to and along the bouncing wall. Here again, it is stated that it is not the practice to take defensive measures in relation to colonial gardens, but why not? Those who live there should not be put at a disadvantage than people who live in villa areas. The high-lying track will be a significant visual feature of the city image, also it must be included in the overall planning, so that the installation is integrated into the surroundings, as far as is technically possible. Finally, account must of course be taken of the fact that many of the freight trains passing through the merge are carrying chemicals, liquids, etc., which could cause considerable damage to flora and fauna in the event of spills to the environment. We must therefore recommend that this matter should also be included in the prevention and protection measures to be taken. The Enhedslisten, of course, supports the proposal. In fact, we very much welcome it. We believe that we have achieved a very good proposal, but of course we also want some of the comments that I have included here to be included in the discussion of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160424	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160431	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance has no direct objection to the authorisation of the Minister of Transport to establish a level-free merge at Ny Ellebjerg, as proposed here in the draft law. As you can read from the paper, it must be considered to be the most appropriate solution, both in relation to the economy and the necessary interventions which are never avoided in such cases. However, I have been told that it is mainly the short trains that have been prioritised by this solution. The problem should be that a thousand-metre-long freight train from Sweden towards Femern Bælt should have difficulty crossing this super-lightning train when it runs Copenhagen-Taastrup-Roskilde. I do not understand that, but it is a question I would like to ask whether there has been a failure here to pay attention to something very central in relation to what the intersection here should be able to accommodate with regard to the large freight trains. The chosen solution here is also a prerequisite for the establishment of Ring Syd, which of course includes the connection Roskilde-Kastrup, which is probably something with three trains per hour, which is of course essential. As we read the proposal, the solution will only partially reduce the risk of traffic conflicts, but we believe that we will have a better regularity and more flexible roadmaps so that we can support the bill in these words.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160609	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth as rapporteur for the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160617	Thank you, Madam President. We support the bill here, which is of course an improvement on the conditions that apply today. It eliminates some of the conflicts that exist, it increases the possibility of extending the operation of trains and makes it more efficient and accessible and improves the conditions of those who have chosen to use public transport. It is of course a matter for the Conservative People's Party to make it more attractive to move traffic from the roads to the trains. The more, the better, for there is already tribulation there. So every time we make improvements in this direction, there's full support from the Conservative People's Party, and there's also the improvements that have been planned here, both around Vigerslevvej, Ellebjerg Station and the Ring Syd project and everything else that is included in this bill. So from the Conservative People's Party there is only praise and joy for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160707	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160715	Thank you very much and thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for their very, very positive expression in relation to this draft law; I think that is welcome. Let me briefly outline the bill. This draft law proposes that the law on the new railway line Copenhagen-Ringsted be amended so that the construction works will have a level-free merge at Ny Ellebjerg. This means that trains from the Øresund railway will cross the Copenhagen-Ringsted railway line on a railway bridge, which will allow for better regularity, i.e. trains on time, more flexible timetables than if the lanes crossed in level. In addition, the level-free merge is the first element in establishing a new hub in Ny Ellebjerg and realising the Ring Syd project, which consists of a new fast train connection for remote and regional trains directly to Copenhagen Airport via Ny Ellebjerg Station. As you know, such a link exists, among other things. been recommended by the Tribulation Commission. The Ring Syd project will bring significant travel time savings and a significant increase in the number of public transport passengers, and it will also help to relieve the other traffic hubs in the capital. With major construction projects such as this, there will often be noise nuisances and expropriation needs, especially during the construction phase. That is why, in this preparatory phase, we have listened to the citizens and also to the colonial garden associations in the area, and we have succeeded in finding a technical solution which will ensure that we completely avoid expropriating private homes and also completely avoid expropriating colonial gardens in connection with the plant. So the solution is to establish a spuns wall instead of a dam in the area of the surrounding colonial gardens. The work itself is planned to start in mid-2015 and completed, so that the plant is finished in 2018, while the new runway Copenhagen-Ringsted is planned to open. The level-free merge shall be implemented in conjunction with the deployment of the signal programme in 2019. There are both traffical and economic advantages in coordinating the installation of a level-free merge at Ny Ellebjerg with the existing works concerning Copenhagen-Ringsted, and that is why we are bringing this bill now. The draft law will contribute to improving public transport and will have positive effects on society, including by reducing congestion in the metropolitan area and improving sustainable transport opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160955	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311160958	In fact, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, the draft law states that it is not the practice to reduce noise in schools and recreational areas, and I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this, i.e. yes or no. There is no prohibition on doing so, which is why it is surprising that Banedanmark, in the consultation note to the bill here, has no comment on the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's objection, which came on 13 January 2015, to precisely the lack and insufficient noise reducing conditions there, among others. About schools. It seems strange, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161044	In other words, Banedanmark will organise the construction work so that it will cause the least possible discomfort to the neighbours, but it is of course inevitable that there will be noise nuisances in the actual construction phase if that is what is referred to. There, therefore, people will be kept informed about the construction work to prepare them for the noise nuisances that will then be there. When we have finished the construction work and it has to go into the operational phase, there will actually be fewer noise-laden homes, there will be fewer noise-laden schools and there will be fewer noise-laden colonial gardens in the area than we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161123	The second brief remark made by Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161125	Yes, yes, it is true, and it is also pleasing, certainly. But this is a little unusual, I think Banedanmark does not comment on it when the Danish Environmental Protection Agency actually objects in their hearing response. I am well aware that in a consultation note you cannot comment on everything that comes in, but when it is the Danish Environmental Protection Agency that has some objections, I think that it requires an answer in one way or another. I think that is bad for Banedanmark, and Banedanmark is, as you know, the Minister's responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161159	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161201	Yes, that view has been noted. It is not up to me, of course, but I would almost recommend to the honourable Member of Parliament, in order to continue with the fine charges in this Chamber, to put a question in writing on this, so that we can have it clarified in the written examination of this draft law in committee. In any case, the answer to this point will also be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161227	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161245	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Transport first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161305	Thank you. After all, it is a proposal from the Liberal Alliance to remove the tax on cars on Storebælt. It is clear that it costs some money and, as I understand the proposal, the Liberal Alliance proposes that the loss for A/S Storebælt be taken from the state through savings. This is what the proposal says: as a result of general improvements in productivity in the public sector and a reduction in business support schemes or other sources of non-taxation or tax increase. This is a total cost of 32 billion. kr., which the proposal here will then pass on to the taxpayer, plus 1 billion. kr. per year for operation and maintenance and increased subsidies for ferry services. And where the money should come from in concrete terms is shown by what I read before. I think that, to put it mildly, it is somewhat unclear. The truth is that putting forward such a proposal here for such a huge bill of billions may be quite easy enough if we do not have sustainable financial financing. That is why it is not government policy either. As I understand the policy of the Liberal Alliance, one is quite crazy about introducing user charges on soon said anything, but just exactly on Storebælt one obviously has to remove the user charges and send the bill over to the taxpayer. There I can say that the Storebælt link was originally intended as tax-financed, but the truth is that it only became reality and built when the model for a user fee came on the track, i.e. the same model that we have also used on Øresund and that we will use with Fehmarn. So the fact is that the Great Belt Bridge would hardly have ever been built if it had been paid for the tax, as has now been proposed by the Liberal Alliance. But it is our predecessors, visionary politicians up through the 1980s, who found this good solution with state-guaranteed loans and user charges, so the connection came into being. I think we should hold on to that model. That is the promise that we made to each other and that we gave to the Danish people, and we must then answer for that and ensure that we also carry through fully. About the Storebælt link we just have to say that we all know how huge and huge a prize it is for Denmark. But there is also still a debt of 24 billion. kr. In this context, current expenditure on operations and maintenance already amounts to more than 0.5 billion. kr. a year. That amount will increase as the connection gets older. And then there is the consideration for this ferry guarantee. It is not mentioned in the Liberal Alliance's proposal. I assume you are familiar with the ferry guarantee. It is in the agreement on the Storebælt link that two ferry routes must be maintained, north and south of Storebælt respectively. Mols-Linien today sails on commercial terms. Of course, it will not be possible if crossing Storebælt became free of charge. What does that mean in concrete terms? Yes, that means that this proposal from the Liberal Alliance would actually have the result that the crossing of Kattegat would shut down. It would then have to be put out to tender, and the deficit which would probably amount to a very large annual amount of millions would have to be covered by the State. This has not been touched upon at all in its proposal here, but that is what is actually the reality. With regard to the deficit coverage of the southern connection, Spodsbjerg-Tår, it currently accounts for approx. 40 million kr. Every year, and that amount will of course also increase if crossing Storebælt becomes free of charge. In addition, and perhaps finally in relation to the economy, the consideration of the agreed payment of dividends to the Infrastructure Fund is an agreement that the Liberal Alliance itself is involved in. If you had to implement this proposal from the Liberal Alliance in such a hypothetical way, it would require a lump sum of about 32 billion. kr. to cover the debt and the agreed remuneration for the infrastructure fund, i.e. 32 billion. kr. After all, it is rare that we spend so much money on such a Wednesday afternoon here in the Folketing. In addition, there will be annual costs of 1 billion. kr. for the operation and maintenance of the connection and for increased support for ferry services as a result of the ferry guarantee. That's 32 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. kr. extra, all of which will be passed on to the taxpayers. Instead of continuing what lies in the Storebælt settlement, namely that the Storebælt link is paid by those who actually use it, the Liberal Alliance proposal would be such that all Danes would have to pay for the connection via the tax. Then you can choose either to raise tax or lower welfare, and I understand that the Liberal Alliance has a desire for the latter, namely to lower welfare and thus find these billions of dollars. I am not entirely sure whether this is part of the so-called economic policy of the Liberal Alliance. If it is not, I would recommend that it be included, because it is, after all, a considerable printing of 32 billion. kr. Just with a snap and then a billion. kr. extra a year. That is not government policy, and that is why we do not intend to change the basis of the Storebælt link. The model of State-guaranteed loans and user charges is a premise for the large fixed links and it works very well. But it is no secret that there has been a lot of debate recently about the tariffs on Storebælt. I would like to say quite openly that I and the government would very much like to help to see whether there is an opportunity to improve the conditions of commuters here. This will particularly benefit people from the neighbourhood who pass the Storebælt daily to get to and from work. But it is a prerequisite for us and for me that it should not have these serious consequences for the economy of the Storebælt link. It is the case that the government is pursuing an economically responsible policy, and this also applies, of course, to the economy of the Storebælt link.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161850	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311161901	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Liberal Alliance will remove the tax on the passage of cars across Storebælt. It sounds like a good idea to help remove the barrier effect, which of course is when you have user charges when crossing the Storebælt. Many drivers will certainly not want to pay for the passage, and we also know that industry is calling for cheaper freight transport, where there is little cost of crossing Storebælt. So, immediately, one can have sympathy for the thinking behind this proposal. If the Left still cannot support the proposal, it is due to a number of realities that we have to deal with. The first reality is that there is still a residual debt in the Storebælt link in the order of 24 billion. kr. With an unchanged repayment profile, we expect that the debt will be fully paid by 2030, i.e. 15 years from now. If you imagine that driving across the Storebælt Bridge is free of charge, then it is clear that you are putting the connection economy at risk by simply removing the revenue and the possibility of repaying the debt. The second reality is that by virtue of the law on ferry services there must be car ferries north and south of Storebælt, namely at Mols-Linien and Spodsbjerg-Tår. If there is free passage across Storebælt, it is clear that these two ferry routes will fail in a very short time and this will result in a need for a massive annual subsidy for ferry services from the Treasury. The third reality is that there is a high annual cost of operating and maintaining the Storebælt link, in the region of 0.5 billion. kr., and these costs are expected to increase in the coming years when the bridge gets older. If you did not collect a tax on passage, that money would, of course, be found in the Treasury rather than in the Treasury. In addition, the financing of this motion for a resolution seems to be somewhat unconcrete, since the proposers merely refer to general savings in the public sector. So the Left cannot support the proposal, although the idea behind it is sympathetic. We have to deal with the economic realities of the Storebælt link. In conclusion, I would like to say that a few months ago the Left presented an economically sound proposal aimed at significantly cheaper commuters crossing Storebælt. This proposal will strengthen not least Funen and West Zealand, and we hope that we will be able to implement this proposal in cooperation with other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162208	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162212	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for stressing that this proposal is unrealistic and must of course be rejected. The rapporteur mentions that there is a residual debt of up to 24 billion. kr. Now it is the case that a few years ago, the Party of the Left proposed that a new Storstrøm bridge should be financed from the Storebælt Bridge's finances in connection with the financing of a new Storstrøm bridge. I should like to hear the rapporteur of the Left: what would have happened to the outstanding debt in the Storebælt link if the Storstrøm bridge had been financed that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162251	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162252	The Left has never made a concrete proposal to fund a Storstrømsbro via the Storebælt Bridge. A debate was under way in which a number of options were discussed. This was one of them. After all, it is no secret that the Left's proposal was to finance the Storstrøm Bridge as part of the Fehmarn project. There we have to recognise that with the realities that have arisen around the Fehmarn project, with a much higher construction price than we originally thought, it is uphill. So that was the reality. The Left's proposal was that it should be seen in the context of the Fehmarn project, but we now recognise that is going to be very difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162328	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162329	It is true that the Left has proposed many different things, including that of Femern. But is it the case that the rapporteur of the Left directly denies that there are newspaper articles which indicate that it is proposed that the Storstrøm Bridge should be financed through the Storebælt settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162350	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162351	No, I do not deny that it was part of the debate. I remember that it was one of the proposals that was in the air. But like I said, it wasn't what it ended up with. In the end, the Left suggested that it be seen in the context of Fehmarn, as I have just explained. It is also the view of the Left that we should be very careful to use Storebælt as a cash machine. Well, we did it with our eyes open in 2009, together with others. The Social Democrats to raise money for the Infrastructure Fund. And, most recently, it happened again in the summer of 2014 to raise money for the Growth Fund. However, I believe that in future we should be very careful to take more money out of the Storebælt link in this way. We must have the debt repaid, and hopefully at some point we will get to where we can also make some other targeted discounts. But we're not making any concrete promises about that today, except for this commuter thing. That proposal stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162446	Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten, short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162449	We note that the Left has participated with open eyes in transforming or developing the Storebælt link into a money machine. I think it's nice to have words spoken. That Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen then takes some reservations for the future, yes, it probably did before developing the Storebælt connection to a cash machine. It's nice to have a clear speech. I'll be right back. Hans Kristian Pihl Lorentzen announced the Left's proposal on exemption for commuters on Storebælt, whether this applies to rail commuters too, so that we can get some tariff reductions on tickets over Storebælt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162526	Thank you, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162527	Thanks for the rose. It's rare that I get it from Enhedslisten's side, but it's nice on such a day. My clear answer to the question is: No, it does not apply to the train commuters. It's for the car commuters. After all, there are a number of people working on the other side of the Belt, and we would like to do something targeted for them. We also believe that there will then be a more flexible labour market across the belt. A sort of Great Belt region could emerge with a more flexible labour market if our proposals were implemented. This applies to car commuters and also to vans, but not to train passengers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162604	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162605	No, and of course it is natural to ask: Why not? What is the difference between the people who get on the train and commute over Storebælt both ways and the people who get into a car? It should be said, after all, that those who sit on a train may think more environmentally and climate-consciously and really ought to be taken into account. This is a pretty heavy burden on DSB's economy every year because you pay these taxes to drive over Storebælt. But why the difference between the people who drive trains and the people who drive cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162635	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162636	It is because when you make a proposal, you have to cut it. And we have chosen to target our proposals for the car commuters across Storebælt, because if you live in the vicinity of Nyborg, you may not be taking the train to get to Korsør. Therefore, we have chosen to target it to those who work in a nice radius around Storebælt. When it comes to making the train journey cheaper, others have tried to make promises about it. We don't. We like to be able to implement the things we promise, and what we promise here is to make it more attractive for car commuters to pass the Storebælt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162713	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311162733	Of course, from the Socialist side, we would like to thank the Liberal Alliance for this opportunity to discuss the Storebælt link. It's a connection that I think we're a lot of people proud of and that we enjoy everyday. It is also an exciting story that lies behind it. Imagine that this connection started to be discussed in the 1800s, and then you had to go through very horribly before you actually managed to reach an agreement. In fact, an agreement was reached in the year I was born in 1973 and yet it was decided that it should not happen, and it was not until the 1980s that this construction law was made, and it was not until the end of the 1990s that the royal family could inaugurate this connection to great joy for all of us. So one could easily enjoy the opportunity here to enjoy the mobility that has been given, that the Funen people have gained much faster access to Copenhagen, one saves one hour. The price of coming from Funen to Sjælland over the bridge is halved compared to when it was ferries. There are many things to rejoice about. But it's kind of like the Liberal Alliance has a particular eagerness to go for the problems and what's not so good, and then you want to solve them by promising a whole lot of things, and you do that in this area too. Because here it all has to be cheaper, and we can get it all at half the price, in fact we have to have it free, you should be able to drive free of charge over the Storebælt connection. It is a little feared that if this debate is allowed to continue much more, the Liberal Alliance will propose that money be put in the account when you run over the connection. You can see there's a steady stream of drivers commuting around like that to put money in the account. It goes without saying that this can't be done at all. It's to say the least, the happy madness. This will mean that, as other rapporteurs have said, we will have to deal with a huge debt. There's 24 billion. kr. that we owe away, which we have to pay off. There is operation, maintenance, there are ferry obligations that are involved, so that is not something that can just be done. In addition, if you drive across Funen, you will see that there is already congestion on the Funen motorway today. There may be times when you come out very slowly, and I don't think it takes much imagination to imagine that if driving over Storebælt suddenly becomes free of charge, then there will be a lot of congestion there. So it could be said: can we not expand the Funen motorway? Yeah, well, that's what we're doing. But where does the money come from to expand the Funen motorway? Yeah, they're coming, among other things. from the Storebælt connection. So the Liberal Alliance's proposal is that the whole of Funen should be turned into a long queue with no prospect of anything ever being done about it. I think that's a sad perspective, and then you're gonna get into the situation that that very boring advertisement with the message isn't gonna make you feel like Funen either? It really does come to its right, because it's no good at all. So there are many things that play a critical role here, and that is why we, the Social Democrats, must reject this specific proposal. Conversely, this is not the case, contrary to what we are often accused of being merely cast in concrete and never looking at anything. We're not like that. We have listened to some who think that it is still the number of slaves that it should be so expensive when it comes to caring for a job, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party are also prepared to look at a special commuter discount so that people who are going to and from work may get a handout. So we would like to take a look at that, but I would like to warn against the magician economy of the Liberal Alliance. I believe that this proposal will be seen through even on the Hjallerup Market. There is such a little fusentast and charlatan about it, and here in these times, when we hear a lot about the party alternative a little bit with hostile takeover by Klaus Riskær Pedersen, I think it has ignored our attention that Professor Tribini himself has sneaked into the Liberal Alliance and has written this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163145	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163147	When the Socialists declare their willingness to look at this commuter discount, I have to ask: will it also include rail passengers, or is it the same inequality that the Left operates with?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163201	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163202	There's got to be an overall discussion about this. Now we did yesterday with Enhedslisten and Mr. Henning Hyllested an excellent deal about DSB, which means that there will be better and faster trains with more seats and more. So, sir. Henning Hyllested knows very well that if there is something the Social Democratic Party is passionate about it was also expressed in the previous proposal • it is public transport. That's why, of course, we also have to look at how this is gonna work in relation to whether or not, if we're going to make a discount targeted by the drivers, we're also going to have to see if we can make something for the train commuters. It is already the case that, thanks to among other things. Mr. Henning Hyllested sets 0.5 billion. kr. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction. But let's discuss it. We're open to suggestions. But we have just found that there are people living on Funen who would like to do a job on Zealand, or vice versa, and they are hit by the fact that there are some high prices, and we would like to help them look at that and help them with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163305	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163306	Among other things: Mrs Bramsen, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, made some very significant announcements when the Left made her proposal. I would like the rapporteur's position to be that way, because I heard it at least as a very, very strong support for the Left's proposal. But I would still like to know whether it is not a condition or, at least, a clear priority for the Socialists, if you are going to look at tax reductions for car commuters, that it will also include another category of Danes, namely those who drive trains. However, it is a fantastic thought that there should be a difference between the people; they have the same needs; they commute to the same places; there are just some who take the train instead of the car, and basically it is more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly than getting in the car and driving one man in every car.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163354	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163355	It is true that there has been an extremely intense debate on Funen, and Fyens Stiftstidende has taken the lead with front pages with stickers you could put on your car and other. And it has not been possible for me to fail to note that my party colleague, Mrs Trine Bramsen, who has been elected and appointed on Funen, has also interfered in the debate. In short, I thought: what is she doing, what is she suggesting here, how is it connected? But then I got read after what she is actually saying and what she's quoted for, and what she's saying is that when we're done with that deal, when we've paid off the debt, we're gonna have to look at doing something different. And that is something other than what the Liberal Alliance is proposing here, where, even if we have a rather large debt, they will just carry out free passage from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163446	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163455	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is proposing here that we abolish the bridge charge over Storebælt. Now it is the case that Dansk Folkeparti is not part of the Storebælt settlement, but nevertheless it is good to relate to what can happen. There is a debt on the Storebælt link, which must be paid. There are some years left to pay it in, and for the same reason it is of course also important that you get some money in so that the debt can be paid. One of the points made by the Liberal Alliance in the proposal is that the tax on the bridge is an obstacle to the development of western Zealand and, in particular, on Funen. I don't know why Funen is harder hit than West Zealand, but there's obviously a difference there. When I read it, I think: Well, hasn't there been any development since that bridge came? Before that we had the ferries which I remember so well, but I was also born in Korsør and there was of course also a development, although there were ferries. It took a little longer to get back and forth, but there was a development. And after the bridge came, things actually went faster, I think. I do not believe that development is stalling because there is a bridge and because you have to pay. It can be said that in the Great Belt settlement, there is also something about commercially operated ferry services which the Liberal Alliance obviously does not think should be taken into account. Fortunately, there is this in the Storebælt settlement, because I think that should be taken into account. It would be awful if Mols-Linien in the north closed; it would also be awful if Færgen A/S in the south closed. And everything else equal has been committed in the Storebælt settlement to keeping those ferry routes open, so that money must also be found in one way or another. This also means that I think the Minister has made a very good point about this, and I am quite sure that the Minister can do better than I can to find a very large amount of money if you remove the tax on the bridge. May I also say that I come from Frederikssund, where we are just about to build a bridge for which we have to pay, over a small fjord. And well enough, the amount is not quite the same as on Storebælt, but I'd say that per. It's probably about the same thing, if not more. And we are actually doing so with open eyes up there because we want to promote development despite payment. Then there is one other thing I would like to mention. I wondered a little when I read that the Liberal Alliance, which is usually in favour of paying for what you use, suddenly wants it for free. Well, it screams a little to heaven, I think. We certainly cannot support it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163747	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311163759	There's an election campaign going on. With this motion for a resolution, the Liberal Alliance is proposing to spend at least 40 billion. kr. Towards 2030. And the money comes from efficiency and business support schemes. We do not have the courage to say what business should not receive aid or pay extra taxes; nor do we have the courage to say what it is that should be shut down in the public sector. So you have to look for a long time. The Liberal Alliance wants the Great Belt Bridge to be completely free to pass. The Storebælt Bridge was built by borrowing, and then you pay off the loan with the user fee that is. There's 25 billion. kr. Each year you use more than approx. 1 billion kr. on maintenance and on the two ferries from Zealand to Jutland and the one from Langeland to Lolland. One billion a year must also be found. By 2030, therefore, it will be 15 billion. kr. to be added to the just over 25 billion. That is why today it will be a total promise of 40 billion. kr., which just has to be financed out of thin air. And that is at least DKK, because if the Storebælt link becomes cheaper or totally free, a lot of people will drive over Funen instead of through the new Fehmarn tunnel, and then the economy of the entire Fehmarn Tunnel, which the Liberal Alliance supports, will also get into trouble. And then there must also be money for the Fehmarn tunnel. So it is a very, very expensive choice promise without funding. The funding is totally airy. The Liberal Alliance is funding everything, including this proposal, by making the public sector more efficient. The government has done nothing but make the public sector more efficient, and this is in stark contrast to what happened in the 00s when we had a so-called bourgeois regime. If this is to be made more effective, I think we should tell you where it is that we want to cut back. It's all too easy just to promise a free Storebælt Bridge when you don't want to tell where to find the money. Then there's this business support thing. Let me just mention some of the business support schemes. Newspapers in Denmark do not pay VAT. It is a business subsidy of approx. 1 billion kr. Will the Liberal Alliance introduce VAT on newspapers? Shipowners do not pay corporation tax. It is a business support for approx. 600 million kr. Will the Liberal Alliance introduce corporation tax for shipping companies? Farmers do not pay taxes on the value of their land. It is also approx. 600 million kr. Will the Liberal Alliance introduce an extra tax on farmers? Færger i Danmark does not pay tax on diesel. That's also 600 million. kr. Will the Liberal Alliance introduce a special tax on ferries? I've heard that sir... Anders Samuelsen runs around Bornholm and promises gold and green forests in relation to ferry service to Bornholm. Here you can introduce a special tax on ferries to Bornholm, Ærø, all sorts of islands in Denmark. Will the Liberal Alliance do that? We do not know, because we only mention business subsidies, but we do not dare to say what business subsidies or special tax rules are to be abolished. I think the Liberal Alliance should have the courage to point that out, as they seem to have the courage to promise the Funenmen a free Great Belt Bridge. The Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution because we believe that we should pay the debt into the bridge we have, and if we promise so much money, we must also present where it is that we want to find them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311164151	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Baastrup, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311164200	During the time I have been a candidate for the SF on Funen, I have never experienced an election campaign without one or more parties wanting or proposing to reduce taxes on cars etc. on Storebælt. However, it is interesting that the Liberal Alliance, as I know, is included in the 2009 Green Transport Agreement, making this proposal without, at least, simply launching some negotiations in the conciliation circle. On the one hand, it has been signed and, on the other hand, the money has been used for a large number of infrastructure measures around the country. I do not know how they are to be paid now when it is so that revenue from Storebælt is removed up front. At the same time, it has also been signed that it will ensure that public transport has to increase most of the growth in traffic in the future. Then I am surprised that, when we come up with this very violent proposal, we do not at least propose a reduction in the special tax which is also imposed on people who use public transport across the bridge. I also miss being told, and there are others who have said what they are, and now you have to quote right, non-tax or non-tax increasing sources from business support schemes that you think about when you write it. At least I don't understand what this is about. Overall, I am terribly sorry that the Liberal Alliance is making this proposal without at least suggesting that there will be a conversation in the conciliation circle, because I do not assume that the Liberal Alliance is going to leave the conciliation on green transport. So it is certainly a question that is flapping in the wind. But voodoo economy and the type of argument doesn't really hold water. It is an excellent proposal if you want to have a front page on Fyens Stiftstidende, but I doubt that Fyens Stiftstidende will think it is the right way to go. I think you'd rather have some right solutions than this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311164428	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311164441	There have been a great many good and sharp arguments against this proposal, and I will try to see if I can avoid repeating it in order not to delay the debate unnecessarily. So I will just try to deal with some of the things that are in the proposal or rather in the comments on the proposal. When the Liberal Alliance claims that there are high costs associated with the use of the road network, I am surprised that the road network, and this also applies to the motorway network in this country, is, after all, provided free of charge to be understood in such a way that it is tax-financed for drivers. The alternative to tax financing, which has also been mentioned by several people, is precisely user charges, and that is what we have chosen for the large fixed links to have them funded at all. I actually thought that the Liberal Alliance was in favour of minimising tax payments to the state and allowing it to be replaced by precisely user charges, but that obviously does not apply, because the reverse is the case here. Then, in the motion for a resolution, the Liberal Alliance says something about this being a barrier to development, especially on Funen and in West Zealand. I would venture to say that this is an allegation, and I just ask where the growth that is claimed to be achieved by removing taxes on Storebælt should be taken away. I would venture to say that this kind of thing is such that motorways and such things tend to suck up growth, but they suck it from somewhere, including from more sparsely populated areas right in the region, among other things. in West Zealand and on Funen. I would also venture to claim that this has only marginal implications for what should be said about the average company. I have not come across any heavy pressure from companies on Funen and in West Zealand, because this is supposed to be a huge problem, but it is clear that if anyone wants to remove it, then, of course, as a company, you will say that is fine. However, it is also clear that when Fyens Stiftstidende launches a campaign to remove the charges on the Storebælt link, especially local politicians come out of the couch, but we can now see that the Liberal Alliance is doing so as a party. The same applies to the Left, who wants to abolish the tax on commuters, and I have mentioned earlier that Trine Bramsen and Lars Christian Lilleholt have been out with some announcements, and now the Liberal Alliance trumps the whole thing by wanting the tax completely removed. But that is not the way to conduct transport policy in a country like this, now we are doing it, and now we are doing it. That is not the way to operate transport policy, especially when we consider what huge infrastructure facilities are being set up and financed. What will certainly happen if the tax is removed was that car traffic would increase quite dramatically, there is no doubt about that, and in our opinion it would be detrimental to the environment and climate and would be a completely wrong way to go. And I have to say again, as I have also mentioned in a number of questions, that I can see that train travellers and train commuters are not included in the proposal. I would almost say that this is typical, not only for the Liberal Alliance, but also for the very motor-happy parties in this Things, because it also has the effect of building motorways or making a fixed connection like the Storebælt Bridge free of charge and thus promoting car traffic, so at the same time you are sucking travellers out of the trains at the same time as the public traffic. It is therefore at a time when we are not least trying to upgrade rail traffic: a number of the parties have adopted the Togfonden DK with new tracks, among other things. on West Funen, electrification and new fast trains, and yesterday we have a DSB contract, which also means more traffic on both sides of Storebælt, but also across Storebælt. So we think there is every reason to say that this proposal is totally in the wrong direction. Then it is true, as some have said, that the funding is, to say the least, hot air, simply referring to general improvements in productivity in the public sector. It is true, of course, what the radical rapporteur says, that this is what always gets thrown out when the Liberal Alliance has to finance its proposals, but that is and remains hot air. I agree that this must be a feature of the approaching election campaign, and the Enhedslisten is, of course, against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311164920	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311164926	Thank you, Madam President. The resolution here is about the Liberal Alliance making it free to run over Storebælt from tomorrow, and one cannot help laughing a little inside, pulling on the smile tape. It's obviously an election campaign. This is probably the most populist proposal I have ever seen. When there is an election campaign, it is, of course, the political Santa Claus coming forward, and here we have a model example of it. I think it is completely out in the woods, because we have just built the Storebælt Bridge on the basis that it should be user-paid, and so there is still 15 billion to be repaid. kr. on that bill. To that comes, as Mr. Andreas Steenberg referred to from the platform, maintenance costs, and there comes the costs of ferry operations. We must be aware that if we were to make it free of charge to cross the Storebælt Bridge, we would be obliged to provide support for the crossings on ferries, because we would not be dependent on one crossing. If there were to be a break down on the bridge, there would have to be alternative ways of crossing, so we would have to keep sailing, and we would have to support that, even if Mols-Linien has so far ceased sailing. But then again there would be an economic carrot to get started and put Mols-Linien back in place, so that we would also have to pay for it if you had the idea of doing this. We think it is a good thing that if you get more money from drivers driving across the Storebælt Bridge, and there is an amount of money available, then we can lower the tax, spend the money on it, or if we can find a available amount elsewhere in our economy, then we can lower the tax to cross the bridge, not just for commuters, but for everyone. It'd be really good if we could. But that is something we need to look at, and there must be funding crowns to crowns quite specifically. I think this is an element of the election campaign. Many proposals have been put forward in order to win voters for themselves, to win votes in an election campaign, and that is what I consider first of all this to be an expression of. Gold and green forests are promised, business subsidies must finance everything. We have tried to botanise in business support schemes before, and every time we find out that there are many professions around which are dependent on the subsidies we have, and we do not think it is time to reduce the conditions, to make it more difficult to operate in our country. On the contrary, we would like to encourage to make it easier and cheaper and administratively simpler to operate. I think that is more the agenda we want to pursue. So, as I said, we would like to make it clear that we are helping to find a lump sum so that we can lower the tax so that the crossing over Storebælt becomes a little cheaper, in order to create mobility, so that there is no cost to it. We would like to contribute to this, but not to the elimination of the 15 billion. kr., as we have agreed with each other to be paid by the drivers. It is the drivers who have to pay, i.e. those who cross the bridge. It is in the same way that it is constructed with the Fehmarn Bridge, it will be those who run over Danes, Scandinavians, Germans and other foreigners who will completely pay for the Fehmarn Bridge over 39 years. It is not the taxpayers, nor should it be in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311165258	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311165307	When the bridge between Funen and Sjælland was built in its time, it was fun that fresh milk could now be taken to Zealand. It takes almost no time to drive from the Triangle area or from Funen to Zealand nowadays, but it costs so much to slow down mobility between the different parts of the country. Prices are from DKK 235. to 1,125 DKK, which is very much for a craftsman who needs to put a few windows in, or a family who needs coffee with the grandparents. A company like Rynkeby on Funen pays 6 million a year. kr. in the case of a bridge charge. This means that the prize for selling 1 l of juice in Copenhagen is less than if it is sold in Aarhus. The director of Rynkeby Foods estimates that up to 70%. the bridge charges for crossing Storebælt are paid by the business community. Therefore, it will mean a great deal to the companies if the toll was phased out, it actually means so much that Fynsk Occupation has put DKK 300,000. on its own initiative in relation to the analysis of the bridge charge. The bridge charge acts as a decisive growth inhibitor in Denmark. If a small company takes a job in a few days on the other side of the bridge, the tax will function as a customs wall that can eat up much of the profits. Of course, that is not appropriate. At the same time, it is strange to have a customs wall in the middle of Denmark, which means that it can cost around a plowman to drive a Sunday trip to coffee with friends, or if you want to see a sick family member. The Danes pay taxes every year for cars and the use of those who far exceed the cost of maintenance of roads and bridges. Car and fuel taxes amounted to more than 43 billion. kr. in 2012 according to the Environmental Economic Council. In comparison, on the basis of a report from the Environmental Economic Council, FDM has estimated the negative costs of motorism in the form of accidents, accidents, congestion, noise, climate impacts and wear and tear of the roads to approx. 17 billion. kr. The drivers in Denmark pay far more to drive on the roads than it costs to drive on the roads. That's not fair. The company behind the Storebælt Bridge makes up about 2.6 billion each year. kr. in bridge charges. The Liberal Alliance has set aside 2 billion. kr. in our financial bill for 2015 for the abolition of the bridge charge. When we set aside 2 billion. kr., it is because we take into account the backflow expected as a result of the tax removal. The 2 billion. kr. This is the result of a reduction in business support through a general improvement in the efficiency of the public sector, as indicated by the plan of the Liberal Alliance, which has been implemented by the Ministry of Finance. We don't interfere in how A/S Storebælt settles the debt. It can be done as it has been. With the current structure there is extremely high tax on a single bridge, while using the rest of the road network is totally free of charge. It provides very high costs for exactly the companies and individuals who pass the bridge. If all revenue from the Storebælt Bridge had been used since its opening for car traffic in 1998 to settle debts, the bridge would be debt-free long before the date of 2031, as last mentioned by the Minister of Transport. It may be questioned whether it is reasonable for the Storebælt Bridge to act as a socio-economic dairy cow to finance other transport projects. We in the Liberal Alliance have considered and considered that it is not appropriate for us to continue to pull money out for new projects and continue to pay the citizens who are going to cross the Great Belt. If it stands to believers that up to 70%. the bridge charge is paid by companies, acts as an additional corporation tax which also harms mobility. The bridge charge is therefore a brake on growth. With this resolution, we in the Liberal Alliance want to remove the tax in order to cross the Great Belt Bridge. It was well illustrated that it would increase mobility and growth when the Storebælt Bridge was built. Now we want to phase out the tax so that citizens can get the full benefit of the bridge for the benefit of families, companies and all Danes who will benefit from the activity and growth that the removal of the bridge tax can bring with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311165726	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311165732	It is just a short question, because I know that Mrs Merete Riisager usually manages the amounts, and I could almost hear that in the end. Now, when it is mentioned that in a company like Rynkeby so much money is spent on crossing the bridge, can the rapporteur also tell us how much money was spent before the bridge, where there were ferries after all, and where you had to pay a driver to sit and wait? Because you had to, and it might be nice to have something to compare with. Then there's another question. If, as a result of growth in West Zealand and Funen, the Liberal Alliance is now proposing the removal of the bridge tax, should it not also be removed on the Øresund Bridge, for example? There are quite a few Danes who have moved over to Malmö, I know, and there can also be family members who would like to have coffee with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311165828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311165829	Let me start with the Øresund Bridge. Today we are talking about the Great Belt Bridge, which is an inland bridge, and therefore it would be appropriate to phase out the tax there. I think that is quite clear; it is a bridge between two Danish parts of the country. As far as Rynkeby is concerned, the rapporteur is quite right in saying that it was an improvement when the Storebælt Bridge was established in relation to the ferries, for the companies. Similarly, it will be an improvement when the bridge charge is phased out at some point. Then it will increase traffic over the bridge, and it will also increase business turnover when they can run for tasks without having to include a tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311165919	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311165920	But now I asked for figures and it is possible that the rapporteur does not have them because I would like to know how much it had improved. Because I have no doubt that it was actually significant, and that is probably why so many people are using the Storebælt Bridge today. I am well aware that it costs money when you go to and from Zealand, because until recently I have always lived on Zealand myself, and leaving Zealand has always cost money, no matter what, that's what you can't actually come from Zealand without it costing money, I'll just hurry to say that you can from Funen after all. But does the rapporteur not think that it is important that we get the bridge back and that, like this, we have the economy in order? And does the rapporteur not also believe that the Storebælt Bridge has actually been a great asset for Denmark and also for the companies located in West Zealand and on Funen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170014	The Storebælt Bridge has been a huge gain for Denmark. It has proved it has been examined to increase growth, and it will also do so if the tax is removed. Then it will further increase growth • that is to be expected • since mobility is increased. For mobility supports growth. So it will be a further improvement in the investment already made. In relation to the settlement of the debt, we do not change the economy of Storebælt A/S it is quite important to say that several people have challenged it from up here. We'll find the money somewhere else. In other words, the revenue that we have today from the levy is elsewhere. So we do not change the agreements or debt settlements that are already in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170100	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170101	Now I do not think that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager, was so keen on prices before and after. Anyway, the thing is, compared to when we got the Storebælt link, we have actually cut prices by half now. The prices we pay today to get from Nyborg to Korsør are about half of what you paid when there were ferries, while saving a whole hour. Is it the case that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has any idea what it is, for example? costs to get a passenger car on the Læsøfærgen? So, if you live on Læsø and want to go to Frederikshavn, what do you pay to get a car there?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170142	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170143	Well, as I have said sometimes now, it is clear that it was an improvement when you got the Storebælt Bridge.Of course it was a very big improvement compared to the ferries. But that does not mean that we should stop making improvements. Rasmus Prehn is concerned about making improvements in society. So let's not stop there. When the automobile was invented, it was an improvement, but it did not stop developing on the cars for that reason. In relation to whether there are connections around Denmark that take one or the other, I would say that this is therefore a crucial link which binds parts of the country together and which promotes mobility and growth for Danes on both sides of the bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170229	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170231	So there was no answer to what the citizens of Læsø have to pay. I have just been on the Internet and look up, and the prices that are there show that the cheapest ticket you can buy for Læsøfærgen, if you have to bring a passenger car, costs 445 DKK, but in the high season the price is up to 685 DKK. to get the car to Læsø. Can the Liberal Alliance rapporteur understand if there are citizens around the country, for example? on Læsø or other islands where there are very high prices, which are somewhat in agreement with the fact that there are some who already have a luxury connection, which saves an hour in transport, have had half the price, and then say that now they must have it for free when they on Læsø and other islands themselves have to pay over 600 DKK. To get the car with you?
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170319	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170320	There's nothing free now. The Great Belt Bridge is an investment, a social investment that has been made. You have screwed it up in the way that you pull out resources; that is, those who cross the Storebælt Bridge also pay to others. That is why it cannot be said that it is only user charges that it is not. You also pull out money for other projects. We are fully aware of this, and we are also involved in agreements on this, but we think that we should look forward to the removal of the bridge tax so that it can lead to increased growth. I understand perfectly well that there are people who live on the islands, also in Southern Denmark, who think it might be interesting to reduce ferry charges, but that is another talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170406	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150311170424	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 17 March 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
