ParlaMint-DK_20150429130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Transport (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 192 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on road transport, the Law on bus and taxi services, etc.) Minister for Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill No. L 193 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure, the Law on Competition and Consumer Relations in the Telecommunications Market, the Law on Arms, the Extradition Act and the Law on Extradition of Violators to Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. Bill No. L 194 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 195 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Law on the Law on Aliens. Minister for Employment (Henrik Dam Kristensen): Bill no. L 196 (Proposal for a law on employment clauses), Bill No. L 197 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Equal Treatment Board. Bill No. L 198 (Proposal for a law amending the law on integration, the Act on active employment and various other laws. Bill No. L 199 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on sickness benefits, Act on active employment, Law on the organisation and support of employment, etc., Act on active social policy and law on holidays). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 168 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to lift the constraint on municipalities to involve private suppliers in the provision of home help). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 168 is referred directly to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Lars Barfoed (KF), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Liselott Blixt (DF) and Mette Bock (LA) and others. have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a parliamentary decision to ensure confidentiality between patient and doctor. B 149). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed. The Minister for Climate, Energy and Building (Rasmus Helveg Petersen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Danish Parliament a written Energy Policy statement 2015. 17). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday, 22 May 2015. The Health and Prevention Committee has submitted a report on the change in the legal situation of selected practitioners. 10). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130242	The first question is to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130258	Would the Minister consider whether it is reasonable that a Danish exchange student who, after more than 6 months of study at a foreign university, who has an exchange agreement with a Danish university, cannot immediately and smoothly register for the Danish National Register and receive a health insurance card without having to go through a long-term procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130319	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that registration of entry into the CPR after a stay abroad must, of course, take place immediately and without delay once the conditions for entry registration have been met. As a society, we must not place unnecessary obstacles in the way of citizens, but must help with proper and flexible solutions and good public service. Having said that, however, I have to disappoint the questioner that I cannot, of course, relate to the fairness of the specific case described in the question, for the simple reason that I do not know the details of the particular case. However, I can say in general terms that when a Danish citizen re-enters the country after a stay abroad of more than 6 months and therefore at that time will be registered as a resident in the CPR, he must fulfil the conditions of entry. For Danish nationals, a valid residence permit is not required as a basis for registration of entry, but this means that the other general conditions for registration must be met. This means that the stay in this country must last more than three months and the person concerned must have a place of residence or permanent residence. Normally, therefore, registration of entry into the CPR for Danish nationals can be done immediately and without delay. However, in very few cases, the specific municipality has to carry out further investigations in order to ascertain whether the conditions are met. That is, for example, the case. the case, if the citizen states that the citizen's residence is a c/o address, but the resident at the address indicates that the citizen is not to live there. It may also be that the municipality has reason to doubt whether the stay in this country lasts over these three months. On the question of the possibility of obtaining health cards, I can only say without going too far into the territory of another minister that the health card is granted according to the rules of health legislation when a person in the CPR is registered with residence in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130504	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130506	Thank you and thank you for your reply. The Minister is, of course, talking about a specific case, but this is really a problem that can arise in many places where we have citizens' services, to which we are addressing ourselves as a citizen, just when you get home. And we know that there are large municipalities where there may be larger bunkers to be treated. So it is actually a question that if this problem arises several times and I am so aware that it is the minister who has besides being the minister of the municipalities too, you might say, sitting with the whole area around the universities and the fact that we want young people to go abroad and take part of their education there. What is happening is that, as a law-abiding citizen, you go and report that you now have to leave the country and ask what to do next. Then you are told that if it is a study period of more than six months, you are actually removed from the country, and therefore you do not have the regular health insurance coverage. That was one part of it. The second is that the Minister then says that, immediately after you have returned, you should have allocated this health insurance card and you should be able to register at a register address. What, though, is "immediately"? For me, it will be that as soon as you actually report your arrival in the citizens' service, it is fine that they have all the information and can see that you have been resident in Denmark, you have been born and raised here and that comes a little on the second question too. That is why there should be no problems. What I am actually a little interested in hearing is whether the Minister really believes that the level of knowledge in the community's civil service is sufficient in relation to this, or whether there are actually some things that need to be clarified, so that you will never doubt it when an exchange student arrives and asks the municipality that they have now come back and that they say it is just a simple expedition case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130700	As I have said, I do not know the circumstances of the case which has given rise to the question, and therefore it is a little difficult to determine whether it is reasonable if entry registration has not taken place immediately. However, as I said, it is my view that the registration of Danish citizens' entry into the CPR takes place immediately and quickly, and I am not aware that there should be long waiting lists or waiting times. But there may be, that is what I mentioned to check whether the conditions are met, i.e. whether it is a stay that can be expected to last more than three months and whether it is a permanent residence or a permanent residence. So I cannot enrich the answer further than saying that it can and it should be completely painless unless the municipality finds the opportunity to investigate the matter further.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130751	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130752	Thanks, it's okay. I would like the Minister to also try to comment on what I am asking about, i.e. whether the level of knowledge of citizens' services is actually sufficient, or whether the Minister, as Minister in this area, thinks that it may well be, there are some things we need to clarify here, because we want young people to go out and come back, and then they can just continue their study as they are now doing, and write the tasks that they must do. If you've been out for a long time, you probably haven't paid rent in the same place in all the months, and then you have to find your address very quickly. That is why we can quickly turn to it. But there is also a big question in relation to the health insurance and coverage there when you get home, and it could be that the Minister could also elaborate on it a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130844	Yes, the very question of health insurance is then the health minister's area. Nevertheless, I would just like to say that it is of course essential that one can be registered immediately when one fulfils the conditions. And it's also my experience that that's what you can do. I think, moreover, that we have made great efforts to digitise as much as possible so that things can be done easily and conveniently and without the high transaction costs, neither for citizens nor for citizens' services, so that we can concentrate our efforts there on those who need guidance. I hope that the questioner will agree with that, in other words that we digitise as many places as possible so that citizens do not waste time on paperwork, which is just a matter of simple registration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130929	Then it's Mrs. Karin Nødgaard, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429130931	This could then be a longer debate on digitalisation. I think the Minister is also aware of what the Danish People's Party's position is, so that for some it is fine, but there are also other groups in society where we think it is actually a major problem, but leave it at that. But I would really like to say that with this type of case you will not be able to just go online and fill out something, because it actually requires that you turn to the community's civil service, that you personally show up, and after all you cannot show up until you have landed in Denmark again. I know that the Minister is not the Secretary of State for Health Insurance Cards, but I do believe that the Minister knows something about the area. In fact, I have also asked questions in the past about how you are covered, from the time you land, and until you may actually be registered in the population register after a few weeks, if that happens. If you go to the citizens' service and ask about it, and they say that you are covered by your travel insurance, and then as a citizen you have to say that no, you are not, because travel insurance covers only abroad, then there is a problem. There may be some time when you are actually not covered by anything, but it could be that you could take it up in the government if it is, that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131036	As I said, if the stay is over 3 months and must be, the conditions are met. It is probably outside my remit to clarify the insurance coverage in relation to health. But what I can say, on the other hand, is that my experience is that during this time the community's civil service is being greatly improved. I myself have recently experienced a visit, and it's nice enough to try to be ordinary citizens too, both to have to have a new driver's license and to have a passport for one of the children, and I just want to say that this is going on incredibly painless. You can even book time, so you are free to queue at the citizens' service, at least in some of the large municipalities that I have taken advantage of. That is why I think we should be careful not to carry on to a fire, which is about the fact that as soon as it takes place in the municipality, it is necessarily slow and out-of-date. Fortunately, modern citizen service is not like that in most places.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131130	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131137	If the Minister considers it reasonable that a Danish exchange student, who is a Danish taxpayer, is born and raised in Denmark and has Danish passports, after more than 6 months of exchange at a university abroad on return to Denmark, cannot immediately register for the population register and get an address and thus e.g. have a health insurance card, the right to borrow books from libraries for use in his further study and the possibility of e.g. to buy and create a telephone, and does the Minister believe that these obstacles are conducive to young people wanting to live up to the Government's wishes that young students should take part in their education abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131205	Thank you for the new variant of the same question. The answer is then too. It is therefore the case that we are concerned that there are no unnecessary obstacles, but that there are proper and flexible solutions in the good public service, and when a Danish citizen re-enters the country after a stay of more than six months abroad, he must fulfil the conditions of entry. If this is done, entry registration can take place immediately and without delay, and I think that is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131236	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131237	I am very pleased to hear that is the Minister's position on this, because it is also my own, namely that it should just be as flexible as possible. This is what we have to build our future on, namely that we also have young people who actually want to gain knowledge widely and so on. Now the Minister says it is a new variation of the question. It is, but there is a difference in nuance, because on this issue I would like to say a little about being an active student, because that is where one can say that the possibilities can be reduced. I know it might sound crazy when you just read it where there's something about buying a phone, 'cause does it matter that much? Yes, it does, because that's the way you can actually communicate, be on the Internet, get your assignments written. When you have to have a health insurance card in your hand, it is because that is what makes it possible to actually go to state libraries and borrow books, etc. in order to be able to do your job, as you have to, because we also know that if you are standing in front of some tests or something, it is not necessary because you do not have it all in your head. You also have to go and get it and borrow some things. So it's actually to get that nuance in, so the minister can deal with it. I am glad that the Minister has some positive experiences with civil service, I am sure there are a lot of people who do, but there are also some who obviously do not have an equally positive experience. Does the Minister perhaps intend to clarify something when sitting at meetings with KL etc., so that we are now sure that this is under control? This is also a bit of what we talked about before about the level of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131412	Well, as I said, I have prepared with interest for the question round here today, because of course I am concerned about whether it covers some general issue, but I can sense that there is a matter behind it. If the questioner so wishes, we would of course be happy to look at whether there is a separate problem in the municipality concerned. I just have to say that this is not my impression, and I am being asked about a great deal of things, that this very question is one which unnecessarily delays citizens in general, and that is why I do not have such new initiatives in the bag to solve problems which I am at least not convinced to date are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131447	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131448	No, but it's okay. Now I actually know that the Minister sometimes has meetings with KL. This is just part of what is being done in the municipalities, but we know that there have been challenges with regard to citizen service and such things, and it is in the word citizen service that it is therefore also necessary to follow things up so continuously; you should not just say: Well now it is running very well, we have heard it and that, and I myself have had some good personal experiences, etc. Is that something you have a dialogue about when the Minister meets with KL? How does it work? Are we sure that the level of education is sufficient? It's about the very word service. Is it okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131523	As I said, I think that my experience is that we are working extremely seriously with citizens' services, that is, that it should be easy for citizens to be dealt with in cases which also require a personal appearance and that you can get help if you show up because you cannot manage it digitally. A great deal has happened in the field of education in particular. After all, people are used to handling the digital solutions. Al SU is handled that way. That's why there are good opportunities to use those things. We keep discussing with KL how things can get better. One of the areas we focus on is how we can also ensure that those who come here and who do not have Danish passports, but foreign passports, can get their papers properly and quickly. We need to find out so that the special international service centres that exist can also continue to serve our foreign visitors.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131613	Last round to Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131617	The Minister then says something about this digital stuff and so on, so I would like to repeat what I said before: here it is just a requirement that you come up with a citizen service, so you cannot go in and do it digitally as such. The Minister also says that you can register immediately, and so I have a very simple question. Does that mean that the minister thinks that the moment you land at an airport in Denmark, you can drive directly on the citizens' service and fill out the forms that are now, and say who you are, because then citizens' service can see that you are a taxpayer, are born and raised in Denmark, have always had a Danish passport, etc., and then you just get to know: It's okay, we're making a nick at you, and then you don't have to lie at the bottom of the pile, you just go out and continue your study and continue with the running course you're doing now?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131659	Well, I said at the outset that the conditions for Danish nationals are that the stay in the country must last more than three months and that the person concerned must have a residence or permanent residence. Once these conditions are met, you may be registered with the CPR.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131718	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131728	The question is this: does the Minister believe that there has been a deterioration in services due to the economic downturn suffered by the municipalities over the last three years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131740	Thank you for the question and for the opportunity to resume our discussions from the consultation that we conducted with the same theme yesterday. It is not quite clear what the questioner means by the last three years. Is it the last 3 years, i.e. 2012-2014, or is it the 3 years up to 2013, i.e. from 2011, which are some of the years that the questioner has previously taken an interest in, and for which accounting figures are also available? But I would like to talk about both periods, i.e. both the last 3 years and the 3 years for which we have accounting figures, i.e. up to 2013. As regards 2011-2013, municipal service costs are at almost the same level for all 3 years. There is a decrease in real expenditure from 2011 to 2013 of 0.1%, and this is something that must be described as unchanged expenditure for all practical purposes. According to the government's assessment, there has been no deterioration in the municipal service during this 3-year period. If we take 2014 with us, it is the case that we have not yet seen the municipal accounting result, even though the time is approaching. However, I believe that it will prove that there has been some growth in service costs and also an improvement in services in the municipalities as a whole. The billions alone, which were triggered by the older pool in the financial law we made together, are lifting the service. All in all, there has been neither negative growth in the municipalities nor a deterioration in the municipal service.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131859	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429131900	We're not gonna fight for 0.1%. That's not really my business either. I am actually pleased with the answer that was given, namely that if you have a relatively unchanged economic framework, a relatively unchanged economy is available, now with the Government's and the Minister's own words, that is what the Minister says has already happened, and I assume that will also apply in the future to having at least as good a service as the one we know. You might also have a better service. I should like to ask you this: is it possible, as the Minister sees it, that with the same financial framework you can actually have a better service than the one you had the previous year, if you simply organise things differently, learn from good experience etc. etc.? I understand, at any rate, and I am pleased with the answer given, that the government now, with two lines below the result, if I may say so, states with seven inches of nails, that with it, with the Minister's words, virtually unchanged, even though it has been decreasing, there has been minus growth, and that is not possible, but let us not discuss it today. The financial framework may well have a service which is at least as good as the one you had the previous year. Is that how I'm supposed to understand the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132020	I can, of course, hear what the questioner is orbiting about, namely arguments that, with the zero growth proposed by the author's party, the service we know will also be maintained in the coming years. But you just have to remember that, during the period we are talking about, we have spent an average of 3 billion. kr. extra a year on increased welfare. That covers, among other things. that in the health sector we have had quite considerable additional costs for our hospitals because the treatments are becoming more expensive and expensive, the apparatus is becoming more expensive and more expensive and we have needed more staff. That is why, with the priority we have given, we have been able to raise welfare in Denmark as a whole, and with the initiative we have been making lately, we have also signalled that, among other things. In the field of health, investment will also be necessary in the coming years. I understand that the Left, at least somewhere along the way, agrees with that. There the table is just caught, because then you will have to pick up the money in the municipalities of the country, and then you will not be able to maintain the same service.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132119	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132120	After all, we do not necessarily agree with the priority that the Minister is setting here. However, I would like to address the question that I have asked, namely that the financial framework that the municipalities have had the Minister calls it almost the same, but I call it a minus growth • is a smaller framework and a smaller consumption. The Minister is now saying that during the period in which this has been the case, this has in fact meant that the service has not deteriorated. In other words, if you also have the same financial framework in the future, you will also have the same or even better service in the Minister's words if you organise things differently than you do today. Is that how I understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132202	I don't think sir... Jacob Jensen listened very carefully after my reply. I said, among other things, that when we now have the accounts for another municipal budget year, we will see that the older billion that we had agreed, because we want to lift the municipal service to the elderly, will prove to be an increase in expenditure. That is why it is the case, even in the municipal and public world, that if you want more, you will also pay for it. We've done that with the older billion. We have done so in financial laws, which the Left has not been involved in in the area of day-care institutions, and this is both here at the latest and in our first financial law, so we now have nearly 0.75 billion. kr. More. That is what we can do because we give priority to resources for it. Then, of course, we can also modernise the public sector. We also have plans for this, and we have also documented that we have results, but that does not change the fact that if you want to give priority to resources, you can, of course, get more welfare than if you do not want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132258	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132301	We can just deal with what's happened. The municipalities, whether looking at the framework provided by the government or looking at real consumption, have had less money to work with, have spent less money under the current government's leadership. That is a fact, and we cannot run away from it, and that is why I am dealing with what the Minister is now saying, and I really am grateful for the answer, namely that the Minister says that even with negative growth you have actually seen in the municipalities that you can provide the same and even in some cases better services. That is why I simply accept that with an unchanged financial framework one will of course also be able to provide at least the same service in the future, and perhaps even a better service. It must surely be the logic that if, with less money with the government's words, you can provide the same or better service, you will also be able to provide the same or better service with the same money in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132354	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132357	The logic of the Left, I think, leaves it to the Left, because I understood when you were in government and you yourself published publications on the public sector's finances, that it appears that it was also thought at that time that zero growth would undermine the service in the long term. This is certainly because when people are not politicians, but people who are just used to sitting and counting on these sorts of things are looking at the difference between what we have put forward and the zero growth that the Left is proposing, it is about 28,000 public employees in 2020 as a whole. Whether they should be employed in the municipalities or in the hospitals or in some other part of the country, time has to show, but the difference is likely to be felt for most people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132443	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132454	The question is: does the Minister believe that the same or better welfare can be achieved within an unchanged economic framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132456	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132459	In the view of the government, the continued development of public and municipal services and better welfare generally require that we have room for manoeuvre to invest in public consumption. Otherwise, it is not possible to give extra resources to the areas we would like to prioritise without cutting back on other areas. But, of course, there are opportunities for efficiency, and we will gain that kind of gain and let them go to targeted welfare increases. But it is our view that, irrespective of the scope for efficiency, there will be a need to provide additional funds for the growth of public consumption. This is necessary if citizens are to see that welfare meets their expectations. Our expectations include: In the field of health, there is a need for more, and we have also set aside quite considerable funds to boost day-care facilities. That's why I guess I'm just gonna have to disappoint Mr. Jacob Jensen says that there is no answer here either, that it does not matter whether you want to invest in the public sector or not. But, of course, we can work to do things better, and we should do so, and we have also documented that we can and will, but the difference is that we spend the money on improving welfare, while we understand that those in the Left are going to be used to cover expenditure gaps elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132608	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132609	It is not quite true that the government is using them. You make a plan, but you did it before the last election. At that time, a plan was also put forward. I remember that it was something like saying that now we need to invest in our day care institutions. There were to be 3,000 extra educators. That was said before the last elections, because now it should be welfare or tax relief. I think that's what the slogan sounded like. Then what happened? Yeah, we haven't got 3,000 more. On the contrary, 3 000 fewer educators have arrived. That is why we can now and again make fine promises to the Danes, but I think with all due respect that it will be received with some scepticism when we can see from history how it has gone. I'm just mentioning the children's area as an example I could mention many other areas. We are, of course, being kicked over and over again because we intend to keep the level of one of the world's largest public sectors, that it should be the expression that everything will fall apart. Then I just note that under the leadership of the current government there has been less money for the municipalities, there have been fewer employees in the municipalities, about 14,000 full-time jobs, including my example of 3,000 fewer educators, and in the Minister's words this has not meant less welfare in the municipalities. After all, I think that is a remark which is worth taking behind our ears when we are probably about to enter an election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132739	It's a little special to have to have that discussion with Mr. Knox. Jacob Jensen, all the time that what has happened under this government is that when we grant an extra crown for welfare, about an extra crown is spent on welfare. That's an average of 3 billion. kr. extra per year in the various welfare areas. Back then, sir. Jacob Jensen's party was in government, it was an uncontrolled growth in the public sector. When an extra crown was granted, 11⁄2 kroner was spent. After all, there is a reason why we have now got a better balance between expenditure and revenue and that we can now say with certainty that when we want to spend an average of 3 billion. kr. extra per year, also towards 2020, it is fully funded because we have a 2020 plan that is linked. One can of course take out an area like the children's area where there have been falling numbers of children and therefore, of course, fewer educators, but overall we have prioritised 0.75 billion. kr. extra for the municipalities' finances, so that there can be more adults with the children. You can take out an area, but you cannot run away from the fact that the general picture towards 2020 is that, because of demographics and the more elderly, there will be increasing pressure of expenditure on the public sector, and that will be difficult to finance if you do not have room for manoeuvre. That is why we think the most responsible thing is to ensure that we have one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132858	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132900	I understand that the Minister, who is also a radical leader, does not like me to remind you of the promise made as a radical leader by the predecessor of the current leader that there should be 3 000 additional educators. Three thousand fewer have arrived. But we can then take another area. I should like to ask: have there been more teachers in the school classes than there were when the current government took over? I don't know if the Minister can assess that. My assessment is that there have been fewer teachers in the classes, so I can ask: does this mean that there has become less service in the primary school now that there are fewer teachers than there were when the government took over?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429132940	Again, I would say that we have to deal with the fact that what is pushing public spending in the coming years is neither the increasing number of children in day care centres nor schools, but that is the increasing number of elderly people, which means that, on average, when we budget 0.6%. in terms of public growth, two thirds of this alone can be related to the fact that there will be increased expenditure pressure due to the fact that we have an ageing population. What we have done to live up to the promises we have made is that we have prioritised additional resources to raise the level of the day institutions. This is what the individual child experiences, even if there are fewer children in the Danish day care institutions. That's why it's a weird way to put it up. This covers the fact that, on the one hand, one would like to say that one wants massive tax cuts to the Danes financed by an absence of welfare development, but on the other hand one will not stand by that it obviously has consequences for welfare. That, in fact, is just our modest point here: we have invested an average of 3 billion. kr. extra per year in extra welfare in recent years. We want to keep doing that. Left wants something else. However, it remains to be seen that the consequences are that, of course, there will be less and less well-being for the citizens. It must be that way. It's just a political difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133056	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133058	But why should there be less welfare? The Minister said just now that you could have the same welfare and perhaps even better welfare if you had an unchanged financial framework. So now the Minister has to choose what he really means. We've been around the children's area. Three thousand educators have been cut down. Now you come up with a patch solution for it. We've been around the school area. There are fewer teachers. That's what they say has been an investment. The Minister now mentions the area of elderly people. I should like to ask: have there been more or fewer SOSU assistants? I can almost give the answer in advance, but perhaps the Minister can confirm this, namely that fewer SOSU assistants have arrived under the leadership of the current government. So the saying that you invest in welfare obviously does not apply to the area of children. Apparently, this does not apply to the primary school area either. The same obviously does not apply to the areas in which SOSU assistants work, namely the core welfare services provided by municipalities. Under the current government, municipalities have experienced less money, a smaller framework, fewer employees. And the government is now saying, with the Minister's words, that it may well mean that you can also have an unchanged welfare and perhaps a better welfare within the same economic framework. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133205	Well, sir. Jacob Jensen can talk from here to Christmas Eve, but that does not change the fact that we have spent 3 billion. kr. extra on welfare on average each of the years. There are 7,000 extra employees in the Danish regions to take care of the sick, and that is how we can shoot the numbers back and forth. But why is it that we want to erase the political differences? It is a clear priority that instead of developing our common welfare, so that we can do something more for the sick, so that we can do something more for the vulnerable, so that we can give the children a better start to life, you have other priorities in the Left. And that's an honest case. What I am saying is just a political point of view, it is just ordinary officials who have calculated the differences between what the Left wants, namely zero growth, and what the government prefers, namely 0.6%. in public growth, on average until 2020 • that the difference is 28,000 fewer public employees starting from the start. And it may be that sir... Jacob Jensen believes that he can run the public sector so that no one can find out, but I now believe that the 28 000 people will be able to make a difference to those who are at risk, to the sick and to the children who have had a difficult start in life.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133309	The question is closed. Thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133324	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's view that the National Police have changed practices so that student driving is no longer permitted in veteran trucks and does the Minister intend to take action in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133340	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133342	One has to deal with much like the country's Minister of Justice, and I would like to say that I very much welcome the fact that young people are taking an education and then they are driving a horse car or a veteran car or whatever they are doing and celebrating that they have put on their hats. That is why, of course, it is important for future students to have that opportunity this year too, and I am glad that the National Police have found a solution so that it can also be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133402	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133404	Thank you. I would say that we are asking this question down here in the Chamber because it has not been possible to find a solution before the question was asked. There has been a broad debate and I think there has also been a lot of dialogue across police circles with colleges and student associations and all sorts of others where no solution has been found. Then it is glorious that for 2015 a solution has been found after this question has been asked. I'm really, really happy about that, and I'd like to sign for that too. But I just have to say to the Minister that when a question is asked down here in the Chamber, it is typical that there is a political discussion. However, this may also be the case, and this is the case here. There are some citizens who are in a jam because of some, excuse the expression, rigid rules, and because, in my opinion, there are also some who interpret EU rules quite rigidly and also too rigidly, in terms of what is possible. So I have chosen to ask the question because we in the Left are concerned that this year, and also next year, we can continue to drive students, as has been done in previous years, without there having been any case that the driving-rest-time rules have been violated or that the student's safety has been at stake. If there have been safety problems, I think it has had something to do with the consumption of alcohol for the people concerned. I am not talking here about the driver, but those who have sat as passengers. So I would like to acknowledge that a solution has now been found for 2015, which came out yesterday. However, as I understand the demand and I may of course have misunderstood it and as I read the message that has come from the National Police, from August 2015 you will enforce these new requirements that if veteran trucks drive, as they have done for many years, they will have to install this wheel so that there is certainty that the driving rest-time rules have been complied with. I would just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister will not investigate whether that possibility can be used, for example. have been used by the Nordsjælland Police Department, namely that they gave permission for student driving, on condition that it took place at a maximum speed of 40 km/h. Then you can be exempted from this requirement to install physical items on a veteran truck in order to comply with the driving-rest-time regulations. Wouldn't the Minister consider such a model or have the National Police consider such a model, so students can also be driven in veteran trucks in 2016 and 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133610	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133612	You can accuse me of a great deal, but not that I sit and regulate how to drive a student. I have simply not dealt with this. On the other hand, I've done something else. When I was told that there was a problem for future students, I asked the Ministry of Justice to find a solution, and it has been found. Of course, that does not change the fact that you have to comply with the EU rules, no matter what position you have on them. I am, in fact, pleased that the police have now succeeded in pointing out an analogue path, for example. Veteran cars, which are cheap to install, and that it has also been reported that no fines will be imposed this year so that students can get out and drive. That must be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133651	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133652	After all, there is reason to commend the government for this. But it is now that I do not want to be too polemical, perhaps a little telling for this government that such temporary solutions are being chosen. You solve the problem, which, along with other things, is pressing for this year, but next year it is the rules that apply. I am very surprised that one chooses such a model by installing an analog driving disc in these vintage trucks and that one does not use the options available to find an alternative model, such as they. has previously been at the North Zealand Police Department. It is not because I want the Minister of Justice to sit and regulate in detail, but I think that there is a good need to look at the rules that have now been made a little more relaxed for 2015 so that we can have a solution that is more long-term and that also applies to the following years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133739	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133741	If I have understood the Ministry of Justice correctly, it is not generally possible to dispense with the rules that are around driving-rest time, because they also apply to these vehicles. That is why I have been concerned about paragraph 1, how to ensure that those who think it is very expensive to install the large appliance have some other options. They do so with the analogue solution. Paragraph 2 is the third g's right now on their way to their exams, and many have been worried about whether they could be allowed to take the trip which is very, very festive and which is a really fine Danish tradition, and I do not think anyone should be deprived of it. That is why I have been concerned about finding a solution so that this year's students can celebrate themselves and their class properly. And then an analog solution has been found that also points forward. I cannot, of course, decide that derogations from EU rules should be allowed if they cannot be dispensed with, and then I will have to try to find some other solutions by means of shortcuts. And that is what has been achieved here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133834	Then there's a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133835	Thank you. I don't think the Minister is answering Mr. Karsten Lauritzen's question in connection with the concrete example that the Nordsjælland Police have given permission for student driving. It is not an exception, not a derogation, but a student driving licence has been granted, provided that it only took place with a maximum. 40 km/h. That is for what many from the industry say: Well then let us have such a national rule. This could be the way to secure a solution, so you don't have to spend money making these different registrations either digitally or by analogy. It seems that this was justified in the North Zealand Police Department, and so, of course, many people are right to ask themselves that if it is justified in one place in the country, is it not justifiable in the whole country? It may well be that the Minister thinks this is down here in some particular section of minor things, but I can promise the Minister that it is in fact something that really means a great deal for a large group of people, including those who will be students next year and the following years, because they are currently facing a problem, namely that they do not know how and how student driving should take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133943	The Justice Minster.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429133945	One could only welcome the fact that a solution has been found because, with all due respect for the fact that many questions have to be raised in the Folketing, we are dealing here with a problem which has been resolved. 'Cause of course the students have to drive a student drive. Now I have to be careful about what words I use in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I do not know what is allowed to say disproportionately, it is at least a nice word that we should be dealing with this at all as politicians, because of course the students of the future have to go on a student drive, and there is no doubt that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134016	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134019	The minister keeps saying that a solution has been found. A solution has been found here this year with no one getting a fine. It is true that the Minister believes that the solution is that all those who are currently offering student driving must go out and spend money, crowns and ears, buying all sorts of different instruments, analog etc., so that they can go in and show that they are complying with the driving rest-time regulations. Some people are just saying: is it common sense for these private road hauliers to go out and spend a lot of money buying these different things, if you could now find another solution that might be more common sense, namely to say that now you have a maximum limit of 40 km, as you have been able to do in North Zealand?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134057	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134058	I am happy to examine the conditions in North Zealand, but I find it difficult to see that a mileage limit has to do with the driving-rest-time rules, because that is what we are talking about here too. There is, of course, a need for all drivers who carry passengers to rest. That's why there are rest-time rules. In any case, it is EU rules that we are dealing with here, and when I am informed that I cannot grant derogations from them, I cannot grant derogations from them. I would like to look at the North Zealand example, but in conclusion, if not the Left, I would like to welcome the fact that students will soon be allowed to drive streets and tread thinly and enjoy the fact that, hopefully, their Baccalaureate has come into being and that they will be able to celebrate it with their classmates.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134138	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen for the last lap.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134142	Thank you. There is a good reason to commend the temporary solution that has been found, and we would like to do so, but we would have preferred to have seen a permanent solution. And when you ask the Commission about EU rules and that is what one of our parliamentary colleagues in the European Parliament has done, you get the answer, and it is the answer that the Commission has given to the MEP in question that the Commission does not immediately believe that these rules on driving rest-time regulations should apply to veteran cars driving with students. That is just what you wonder a little bit: you get one answer when you ask the National Police, they say: that is the EU rules, we can do nothing, and when you ask down in the Commission, you get another answer. That is why my recommendation here, in the end, is simply that I think the Minister for Justice should investigate whether it really is now the case that EU rules put us in this straitjacket when it comes to something as simple and traditional as student driving, where it is not possible to say that there have been problems with the rules on driving rest time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134236	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134237	If the Commission has given an answer that is different from what I have been informed of, please let me finally see the answer so that it can be corrected if it is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134246	The question is closed. The next question to the Minister for Justice is by Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134257	Thank you. The question is: does the Minister share the feeling that it is offensive to the court when the police fail to report shoplifting and that they are simply told by the police themselves to get the thief to sign the notification, and does the Minister intend to do something in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134315	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134316	I understand from the publicity in the media that there should be some shops in Aarhus where they have experienced shoplifting, and that then the police have not arrived afterwards when they have apprehended the thief. In the media it is rendered that the police should have asked the shopkeepers to get the shoplifter to sign and thereby acknowledge the blame. I am not aware, apart from the media, of the specific cases, which is why I cannot comment on the specific issues, because it will require me to obtain information from the National Police, and that is outside the answer to the question. But I would like to say in general terms, as far as shoplifting is concerned, that the police must, of course, come when they need it. This is true of all forms of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134409	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134411	Well, we agree with that, and that is why I am glad if it also means a hand-out from the Minister and that you will follow up on the matter and have a look at what has been behind the East Jutland Police's failure to move out. There is a quote from East Jutland Police, where a police inspector Jørn Kjer says it depends on the distribution of resources. And when they simply don't have the resources to move out, they can't move out. And I immediately get nervous about this problem, which is perceived to be very serious in Aarhus. So let us not forget that there are a number of shopkeepers here who say that they may have a threatening shoplifter, and then they will have to get the shoplifter to sign that they are a thief and so on. And they feel they've suddenly gotten into some sort of police mission, and they don't like that at all. They are very nervous about it and think that it must be a police task, which I also think is right. But what I am nervous about is if, for example, the distribution of resources. Compared to the 200 million. kr. for photocars or something else makes the police not have the resources to move out when shopkeepers have big problems with shoplifting. Because then what I think is a political decision, and it is also a political decision that is wrong. And then it is not something that is the problem of East Jutland Police, then it is a national problem which I think should be discussed politically. That is why the question must also be more relevant to the Minister than what the Minister has said here today in his reply to me. Can you not see that there must be something wrong with the allocation of resources? Because I'm not assuming that East Jutland Police can't figure out how to read a spreadsheet. I assume that East Jutland Police can see what they have officers for, what they have resources for. So here they can see that they do not have the officers to do so, because they are faced with different demands, for example. The photo cart thing. So does the Minister not agree that this is a political discussion and that there is also a political need to go in and look at this distribution of resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134605	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134607	After all, as far as the police are concerned, everything is a political discussion, and if the Left is very concerned about giving priority to shoplifting, that is something that we must take with us to the negotiations on a new multiannual agreement for the Danish police, on which we will soon begin negotiations. In addition, there is also a police management task here, because of course there will be types of break-in where it is not necessary to call the police. If you are dealing with a thief who is not threatening, but who acknowledges guilt and responsibility immediately, it is not certain that it is a proper way to dispose of his police resources to drive out to it. On the other hand, there may be many other examples where the theft or even worse the robbery has such a character that the police must, of course, be present. But it's a police assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134650	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134652	I mean, I think it's a little easy to say that this is a police professional assessment, because the police are saying that this is a matter of resources. The police are faced with various demands on how and how they use their resources, and that is why it is not just the police who decide where they choose to use those resources. After all, it is a political decision, and that is where the government has, among other things. It has been decided that more than 200 million will be needed. kr. on photocarts. And that's why I don't understand that you just keep trying to keep it from you. I understand that this is a little easy, but sometimes you don't just have to do what is easy, you also have to do what matters. And compared to Aarhus, where this is a huge problem for a large number of shopkeepers, we expect more than just a little loose politician talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134731	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134733	I don't really try to do anything easy. I recognize that there is of course a priority in relation to the Danish police, and there must be, because I am aware of no one here in the Danish Parliament who has unsuspected resources, nor to the Danish police. So, of course, there is a priority, and we must stick to that. The Left itself has helped to create the framework for the economy surrounding the Danish police, which is why I would like to reiterate that if shoplifting is a special priority in the eyes of the Left, it must be taken to the negotiating table. And that does not change the fact that until then it is a police task to make sure to be present when crime is committed in Denmark. It also concerns shoplifting, but again it does not change that there may be examples where it is not relevant or necessary for the police to be present. It's a police professional assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134816	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134819	Thank you. Well, we'd be happy to meet in the police conciliation circle when the Minister invites us, and if the Minister wants to invite us to negotiations on the multi-year agreement, we can start right now for our sake. There are problems in the Danish police. I come right up from North Zealand from a meeting with 150 members of the Police Union, and they can come along with, excuse me the expression, a slightly different interpretation of reality from that of the Minister of Justice here. But we shall not discuss this further. I'm kind of like my colleague, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen preoccupied with finding out. We probably have a problem, that is at least the realization that we have reached in the Left, that the police are not going to deal with these simple theft cases. Of course, you have a service declaration, but there is a problem. We have come to that realization. We want to help solve that task, and then we must work together to find out how. However, I do not hear what the Minister is saying as a real recognition that there is a problem in this area. The minister's just saying that the police should come when you call. But it would be nice if the Minister would acknowledge here that we may have a problem in this area and say yes to that we will have to look at it. Instead, the Minister says that if this is a problem, the Left must come and point it out in the negotiations. Yes, yes, we will. However, it would be nice if the Minister in this Chamber said today that the Minister agrees with this and that we will find a solution to it jointly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429134933	On the other hand, it is of no use that I stand down here in the Chamber, and it is probably almost every day when Parliament meets and promises more money for one and the other and the third task with the police, because of course we have to see the police's portfolio of tasks under one. That is why my position is the one I have expressed, namely that the police must be present in principle when crime is committed in Denmark, if it is reported, and if the police are called. But, of course, that does not change the fact that there is a priority, because there may be acute situations where one cannot be present, there may be contexts where we prioritise police tasks differently, and there are also examples of theft where it would be wrong for me to claim that the police should be present. For example, if you're dealing with a shoplifter who immediately confesses his guilt and signs, then I'm not sure that's the right way to use our very, very skilled policemen if you ask them to be there. There may be many other situations in the area of shoplifting, where the police must be present, and then it is a management task to ensure that resources are given priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135034	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135035	Well, to that extent, the minister is right, but I think the Minister of Justice may have to tell the audience at least I think, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen and I are aware that the government has chosen to give priority to some other things. And the priority given by the police, as they do, is, after all, a consequence of the political priorities we have had. And there is not the current Minister of Justice, nor the previous one, but the previous one again, Mr. Morten Bødskov, prioritized 225 million. kr. for more speed control. It's money you could have given to solve this problem with shoplifters. That's where the government chose speed control as the most important thing, not the shoplifters. It is, of course, a fair choice, but we disagree with the Left, and I think that the government should be doing so rather than saying that this is all about priorities. Priority is being given, and one of the problems is that the government has given some wrong priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135127	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135128	But is it correct that what has been this government's primary priority in the field of police is traffic control? No, it's not a proper rendering. For example, we have given priority to organized crime, the biker gang problem position. There we have a strong presence of Danish police. Should it be downgraded? Not if you ask me, I said figuratively, because I can't say you or I, so it was a figure of speech. We have given priority to the fight against terrorism. Of course we have it after a terrorist attack in Copenhagen. Should it be downgraded? I do not think so. We have given priority to sending out more foreigners who commit crime here by Denmark. Should it be downgraded? Not if you ask me. That's how I could go on. Therefore, I would really appeal and say that when we talk about police resources, it does not make sense to take out a single element that we can discuss separately. We need to see it in a context, because the Danish police are facing a great many different tasks, crime is moving. Many of our criminals are becoming more skilled, and that is why we must be able to do the same. This does not mean that shoplifting is not important or essential and cannot be offensive to the individual store owner and the employee, because of course it can. But to promise that the police must always come to a shoplifting would be a wrong way of prioritizing police resources, and to lure me, if not the Left Party in fact, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135242	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135245	Unfortunately, we are not getting much closer because what the Minister forgets in the long speech flow is time and time again the extra speed control of 225 million. kr.! We've got 100 photo cars around the country. The 100 photocars and the 225 million. kr. could make a huge difference in relation to e.g. Shoplifting. That would mean that the Aarhus shopkeepers didn't have to be police officers and had to get these signatures out of the shoplifters themselves. So you can make a political priority if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135319	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135320	We are constantly making a political priority and I stand by it. However, I would like to call for road traffic control and efforts to avoid the fatal accidents which, moreover, dominate not least the Jutland highways, to be taken into account when the Left organises its position and policy on the Danish police, because ensuring that more people survive on our roads is, in my view, an important task, both for Danish police and also for the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135348	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister of Justice by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135401	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice whether, in the Minister's view, it is good governance to first postpone the response to the European Committee's question 4, alm. in writing. - (PT) The first part, tabled on 13 October 2014, with 4-6 weeks, then more than six months later, as it is now, has not answered the question at all, nor has it reported when the Minister expects to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135425	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135426	The answer is somewhat nuanced on my part, because normally I will of course always say that no, it is not good governance that there is such a long deadline for replying. And I have spent a great deal of effort, not least as Minister of Justice, to bring down the many overruns of deadlines from the Ministry of Justice, and we have also succeeded in being in a very good condition, which is something that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is also pleased about. Everything else is not fair either. This case is a little bit more tricky, I think, because what is being asked about the fact that right after I took office as Minister is that I have to explain to all 28 EU countries the conditions for asylum seekers and asylum seekers with a residence permit, both in relation to social benefits, housing subsidies, access to school and access to health. That's a huge question. We do not have the knowledge in Denmark, it requires that information be obtained from each country, while, of course, considering whether comparable information material is available. That is why I am explaining to the questioner at the beginning of November that this is a complex matter, that the issue has a very, very large scope and that we cannot promise a comparable result which the questioner can otherwise use for anything. So we then agree with the questioner that we can reduce the number of countries I would like to thank for such cooperation, which I think is good; then there should be consultations in each country, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that assists us there; then there is some national coordination with other ministries, because there is also a question of health, for example; and then there has been a need for an additional consultation which has taken time. The additional consultation has just been completed, which is why we will soon be able to answer the question. So my answer is, overall, that we must hurry all we can. It is indeed a difficult question that has been asked, and that is why it has taken an extra long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135620	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135621	I am grateful for the Minister's reply that it will be soon, and I would, of course, like to ask him further. What does "soon" mean? I also ask that because on 31 October, just over 14 days after I asked the question, I actually received a written reply from the Minister that I would receive an answer within 4-6 weeks. I fully understand that there is a lot of information to be obtained, and that is also why we have been talking about reducing the number of countries. However, what is very annoying in the work is not being able to get a time frame and not being able to get a message, even when the Folketing is moving for when the answer to when it actually happens. So what does "soon" mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135702-2	It means soon. I don't have a date, but it's supposed to be in the nearest future. But I would also like to say that, of course, if we cannot answer within the time limits, it is only fair that the Folketing should be informed when we expect to be able to do so, and if it is also exceeded, the Folketing should be informed, and if it has not happened in this case, it is a mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135723	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135724	I can then just inform the Minister that this has not happened in spite of numerous inquiries. And it would have been nice to have that answer or also to have it partly informed when you had a certain number of countries, in order to be able to move forward in the process at all. I am not really going to delay the session, but sign that the Minister is saying that I will be given an answer soon, and I assume that soon we will be talking about the fact that it will be within a few days.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135753	I have been told that it should be in the very near future, but may I not suggest that when I come back to the ministry, we just send an e-mail to the questioner about when the very nearest future will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135806	I would like to acknowledge this and thus make my second question superfluous, because the Minister has thus already dealt with it by saying that it will be answered in a time frame that is soon to be called.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135817	Okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135819	That means that Question No 1 will be answered in writing.' 8 hereby lapses. Thank you to the questioner, and thank you to the Minister for Justice, who is therefore also free for other work. The next question is to the Minister for Education and Research of Annette Vilhelmsen, but I do not see Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen. Then we move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Employment, which we are just giving a small chance because we skipped a question, but if the Minister for Education and Research wants to wait for us to take the next question, then we are trying to save it in that way. Sir. Steen Gade has asked questions to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135904	Thank you. In view of the fact that Cheminova will have a general meeting tomorrow, I would like to ask the Minister responsible for ATP the following question: does the Minister agree that, in addition to taking into account economic returns, ATP also has wider social responsibility, which is at least in line with that of other companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135929	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429135931	I would like to start by stating that the supplementary pension for the labour market, which we call the ATP on a daily basis, is, after all, managed by a director, a board of directors and a board of directors whose members, for the most part, have been appointed on the recommendation of the social partners. I also think it is well known that as Minister for Employment, I do not have any powers of instruction in relation to the management of the ATP. The aim of the ATP is to provide employees with the best possible pensions. This is actually very clear from the law. It is therefore at the heart of ATP's investment business that ATP is not allowed to use its members' pension funds for other purposes. That would simply be contrary to the law. ATP has informed me that at the same time, ATP has undertaken to practice active and socially responsible ownership in relation to their investments. ATP's Board of Directors has thus established an overall framework for integrating social responsibility into ATP's investment decisions. Specifically, this means, among other things, that the companies in which ATP buys shares must respect the law and the law of the countries in which they operate. In addition, companies must respect the rules, standards and standards resulting from conventions and other international agreements to which Denmark has acceded, for example. The EU and the UN. This applies regardless of whether the countries in which the company operates have acceded to these conventions. Finally, I would like to add that, of course, it is important for me that the ATP manages its investments to the best possible benefit of its members and that they provide as good a basis for their pensions as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140103	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140105	Thank you for your answer. I know clearly that the Minister for Employment has no powers of instruction, but that is not what I have asked either. I have asked whether it is the view of the Minister for Employment that ATP should also show social responsibility. I understand that ATP also means this, and I thought it meant that the Minister thinks so too. Okay. I have also read that ATP has been awarded a prize for their social responsibility, a prize which was about helping women into the labour market, and much praise to ATP for it, but, Mr. Minister for Employment, has it not cost money for ATP? And couldn't ATP in their CSR policy, as it says in a fine word, have also well decided that they gave money to clean up after a poison depot, on which they helped to make money through the production that helped to make it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140206	It is very understandable that we are moving on to the next question as well. What I explained was the social responsibility of the ATP, which is about following international conventions and so on, and then I also made very clear what the legal basis is for this, and that is actually nothing new. It is actually back to when ATP was established in 1963, when it was also discussed here, where the then Minister for Labour, Erling Dinesen, indicated that the money should not be placed, so that active business policy is pursued. So there is a very clear legal basis for how ATP can invest its money, which is that there must be the best return and return on the pension that citizens need, and that is what is the legal basis. Whatever I want, whatever I want, whatever I want, etc., there's a clear legal basis in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140302	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140303	Yeah, there's a clear legal basis, and I have this too. This has meant that Cheminova believes that they must have a policy of social responsibility, and I fully agree that any honest business must have that and it costs money. And if you have it, then the logic is also that you have to decide for yourself within the legal framework of what you use it for. And when you have to use it to get new dancers into work................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I do not know if the Minister has any comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140350	I have the comment that will also be made in my answer to the next question that a judgment has been handed down in this case, and I do not have the right of instruction in relation to ATP and its board of directors and how it manages it. I have a legal basis which I have referred to Mr. Steen Gade now here, and I would like to say that the legal basis is relatively square. It is about the ATP managing its money, so it is to the maximum benefit to future pensioners, and of course it is also a noble and good purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140424	Then it's mr. Steen Gade to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140425	I would just like to finish by reading out what I have at least found in the law, and that is that one must use one's capital in an appropriate and proper way for Members, so that there is reassuring assurance that the supplementary pension for the labour market can meet its obligations at any time. The allocation of funds shall aim to maintain the real value of the funds. We'll leave that to blink until I go to the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140455	I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Steen Gade, that in this situation I am not moving into any legal interpretation, I am simply not dressed for that, and that is why it is, of course, true that it is the right thing to do, Mr President. Steen Gade's been reading. It is also true what I have said about the law being relatively clear in this area as to what the movement possibilities are for ATP.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140516	The question is closed. We also take Question 11, because it is directly related to this. It is also addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Steen Gade and then we go back to question 9.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140533	The question then follows on from the last question: can the Minister confirm and, if so, does the Minister consider it satisfactory that ATP as a shareholder cannot vote in favour of a proposal to use part of the return on the sale of Cheminova to remove the poison depot at Høfte 42 and that the proposal is therefore in danger of falling because there is no qualified majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140551	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140552	I'm not sure, sir. Steen Gade will be so pleased with my answer now, but I have to read out the answer which is the legally correct answer, and that is as follows: it simply follows from the law that Members' pension money must not be used for anything other than what is stated in this purpose. It would be contrary to the law if ATP were to pursue other purposes. ATP has shares in Auriga, I think it's called, which is owned by Cheminova. A vest of the Vestre Landsret states that Auriga is not obliged to pay for the clean-up at Harboøre Tange, and it would be contrary to ATP's purpose and contrary to the law to support a clean-up that would have a negative economic impact on ATP's members. The Research Fund at Aarhus University has proposed that the shareholders of Auriga should give a larger amount to a fund to finance the clean-up at Harboøre Tange. ATP has informed me that ATP will follow Auriga's board's recommendation not to vote in favour of the research fund's proposal at the General Assembly. That is the answer that I can give, where you can also remember what I said at the outset about instructional powers and the clear legal basis, and then we can all have feelings about Harboøre Tange and Høfte 42. I think, sir. Steen Gade and I have been in for so many years that it has followed us in all our political work, but that is quite a different story.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140709	Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140709-2	The Minister for Employment is absolutely right that I was not particularly pleased with the answer. I also thought it was unnecessarily formalistic. It is, of course, because I have put a question about the Minister's position, but I understand it is hidden somewhere else. It is of course interesting when our Minister for the Environment has stated that she believes that the company has a moral responsibility, and if the company has a moral responsibility, it is also ATP. I don't know how the minister really feels about the fact that the biggest capitalist in this context will help to pay for some clean-up, while the managers of the employees' capital say no, despite the fact that we just agree that they also feel social responsibility and have a policy of social responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140814	Being a minister is in every way exciting and challenging, and sometimes you have ample opportunity to make very clear political statements, while at other times you have to stand on a different ground because you are also managing the law and accountable to the Folketing. This is, in fact, the last task I have undertaken in the question-making round here. I think I have tried to describe very precisely what the purpose of the law is, what is legal in this, and that is negative in relation to the approach that Mr. Steen Gade has to do it. I referred back to the founding of the law in 1963, and I can no more than refer to the legal basis and the legal assessment of this matter, which comes up to me. That's the way it is sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140909	Sir. Steen Gade for an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429140916	Well, the legal basis cannot be dealt with by the Minister, but my criticism goes on the strict interpretation of what it means, and here we come back to the discussion we had before that all companies today, which are honourable, have a policy of social corporate responsibility, on Danish social responsibility. So does Cheminova, and that is why it is my claim that one fully lives up to one's purpose as owner by also helping to clean up this mess. And that's 7 million. kr. out of a shareholding of 494 million. kr., I think this is about. So it is probably an amount that corresponds to what one might have spent on another task of social responsibility that one has undertaken, namely to train new dancers. I just feel that the Minister has an unnecessarily narrow interpretation here, because the very fact that a company has a policy of social responsibility means that in some areas it departs from the principle of maximum return.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141030	Well, I'd like to assure you, sir. Steen Gade says I'm not very formalistic here. I would also like to say to Mr. Steen Gade, that some of the § 20 issues are spent some time preparing, and others you don't need so much preparation for. I have spent time on this because I want to be absolutely sure what my answer is, and my answer is that with the prehistory that is here and the way the law is screwed up, it would not be legal. I'm sorry, but that's the interpretation. And then I'm not going to have a discussion with Mr. Knox. Steen Gade and make a legal interpretation, because I'm not dressed for that. But that is the answer that I can give on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141107	Mr President, there is one brief comment to make. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141114	I challenge, as the Minister can hear, the interpretation. I think it's too tight. We cannot finish that here today, but if the Minister thinks that we are there where it is not possible, it might be interesting to follow it up, perhaps not today, but then another day, by saying: do we not have crazy legislation that makes it the capital of employees that cannot behave decently? That's my graduation line.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141145	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141146	The legislation can always be revised, but I think it is also important, as far as the management of taxpayers' savings is concerned, that they should first and foremost be guaranteed a good pension. It is a noble and good purpose to have. But as I said, the law is back in 1963, and I do not know how many times it has been revised along the way.I am not dressed to answer the law, but I interpret the law as it is today. If there is another piece of legislation at another time, we will have to look at it, but I have interpreted it on the basis of what the law is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141219	The question is closed. Then we return to question 9 to the Minister for Education and Research, who has had to wait for the question from Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141233	Thank you for allowing me to put the question to the Minister for Education. My question is this: what is the status of the creation of a cand. psychic education and will the Minister recognise the need for a return to education? I've got sir. Bertel Haarder as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141253	Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141255	I am certainly, like both authors, and I think the questioners are aware of that, very much aware of this matter. It has been running over a long period of time and this is unsatisfactory for all parties involved. I am concerned that we are considering all possibilities for solving the recruitment problem that the National Association of Municipalities assesses there are in relation to employees with both a psychological professionalism and a special understanding of the educational situation in schools. However, as a minister, I also have to consider that, after very thorough consideration, it has been the professional judgement of Aarhus University that psychology cannot be achieved in 31⁄2 years. And if Aarhus University doesn't see it as technically sound, I can't reverse that decision. The right to tender lies with the universities, and this is provided for in the University Act. What I can do, on the other hand, and what I and my predecessors have done, and have done with great perseverance, is to call on the parties, that is. first and foremost KL and Aarhus University to enter into dialogue with each other to find new solutions. It is those parties, not the Ministry, but the employer's part, KL, and the education sector, who can find solutions. However, as I am particularly aware of the matter, my ministry is also making a very active effort to bring the parties together and has just started a renewed and now very constructive and close dialogue with KL and Aarhus University on how to meet the training needs of the PPR. This dialogue is based on exploring the possibilities for the concrete development of a new training offer to meet the needs of the municipalities. And, of course, I will ensure that the authors are informed of the outcome of that dialogue as soon as we are a little longer in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141509	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141511	I welcome the fact that a process is actually under way, although it has been going on for a very long time. And what is more important to me than whether Aarhus University can find out whether or not they can recognise it is that there are a lot of children and young people and more than those who need well-educated psychologists. I do not think they should wait because we have structural barriers for them to get the help they need. So what I really want is the Minister's recognition here. We are currently facing a review of the teacher's education, and Aarhus University's concern about whether they can approve a 3-year-old psychology programme is very much in connection with what we actually knew from the Master's degree programme, namely that teachers with an educational professionalism had been trained there, which had been in practice, so they knew about these children and young people, whom they were then met by. And on top of that, you build a psychological professionalism by taking a Master's degree or by taking a Master's degree if you can't agree on the Master's degree. Could the Minister be a little more precise in replying to whether there really is no other option than Aarhus University? Well, we haven't held back from imposing tasks on universities or taking tasks away from them in the last few days. So if Aarhus University does not feel equipped for the task, one might try to talk to other universities, such as Aarhus University. has a tradition of working with other professional skills, as we know from professional training, for example. a teacher who has professional experience from schools can build an academic education on top of that. How does the Minister think that sound?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141713	But basically, it is part of the academic autonomy based on the university law that universities decide for themselves which education they want to offer, and that applies regardless of which university we are talking about. Then there are other control mechanisms in relation to the number of seats • that is not what this is all about. The provision of new education is the decision of the universities themselves. Then there is an accreditation process. It follows the university law, and I do not think we should change that, and that is quite fundamental. Then it is true that there is a need, which is why I have also called on both Aarhus University and KL at the other end to engage in dialogue with the education sector on how it can best be resolved with the school psychological competences. I agree with that dialogue for too long, and there has been no dialogue all the time, and that is what I am really focusing on now, too, so much that I am also very aware of how much my duties focus on it. And they do so very much so that we will hopefully get there, as I mentioned earlier, where a new training offer can now be developed, so that both parties meet it, I think, legitimate demand is quite legitimate. We'd like to get those opportunities out to the kids. It is also possible to build on top with a cand. infant. Today. There has been some opposition to this, but on the other hand we must also respect the professional judgement that an authorisation of 31⁄2 years cannot be granted. Now it looks as if I hope that a new training offer can be landed, which will then help solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141900	Then it's Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141902	But there are, of course, several ways to go in this discussion, and there is exactly the professional assessment. Will the Minister also, when we discuss teacher training, take a look at the fact that we are not doing a review of teacher training, which, when it is decided in six months' time, will make it possible to re-establish a cand. psychic, because teacher training no longer contains what is needed in order to subsequently obtain the accreditation for its education? What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429141944	We must, of course, be fully aware of how we are constantly developing teacher training in a way that does not interfere with other development opportunities that we would like to see promoted. It's obvious. After all, we are not here to review teacher training. We did this basically in 2013 with a reform, and right now we are looking at the announcement changes resulting from the reform of the primary school. I think what to say is that the size ratio is slightly different. But, of course, we must be aware of what the honourable Member is referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142020	Then it's mr. Bertel Haarder as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142026	It is perhaps a little unusual for a Leftman and a SF to go together on a question to a minister, but it was due to the very special nature of the matter, and it also shows that there is probably a majority in the Folketing who believe that the Minister should act in this area. Aarhus University had previously, four years ago, a drawer plan that solved the problem we are talking about here, but then you are perhaps influenced by the Psychologist Association, who knows, backed out of it. We think that is a pity. I would add to all that is right, as Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen has said, that I see a good deal of university snobbery in the dislike of the Psychologist Association and then from Aarhus University. I think it is regrettable that schools and children should suffer, because there is a demand for what we are talking about here. And the snobbery is, of course, that one does not seem to recognise at all that a teacher's education of four years counts anything at all. I remember that as a new student I was on the faculty council at Aarhus University, and those professors wouldn't accept a graduate teacher because he wasn't a student. Perhaps it was ancient knowledge that he lacked. It offended me deeply, and I think that we are faced with something similar to the university snobbery that I met at the time, which should be the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142218	I think there are things, sir. Bertel Haarder and I have met with many years apart to remind each other of each other. You can think about that. I see that a Leftman and a SF woman stand here together as an expression of the very great concern they, as members of the Folketing, have for this area, and I very, very much appreciate that. That's why I'm one of them. As a result of the very great attention of the questioners in this area, we are really concerned about how we can move forward. It is true that it has taken far too long and there are reasons for it on both sides. From the outset, KL has insisted that teacher training should give access in a shorter period to obtaining the same authorisation as psychologists who have completed a 5-year psychological training, and the Ministry has also tried to create this common understanding in several stages since the completion of the old training. It is also true, as the questioner refers to, that there was a period in 2011 when we thought that it was now resolved and that now Aarhus University wanted to set up such a 31⁄2 year education. However, it has to be recognised that after the thorough consideration they then announced in spring 2013 that this was not technically possible. So I fully acknowledge the views of KL and also from the Danish Teacher Association. I also regardless of Bertel Haarder's experiences, I have to relate to the fact that it is a university that has to provide teachers with the necessary academic level for a university superstructure, and it is Aarhus University that has the professional assessment in relation to such a decision. But on the other hand, I am now confident that we will actually find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142419	Sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142420	I would like to thank the Minister for her attitude in line with those of us who ask. Then there is the matter of the action for which the Minister is responsible. I do not think that Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen was given a clear answer to the question: How about giving the assignment to another university if it is so difficult at Aarhus University?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142449	Well, there's nothing in the university law that prevents universities from offering a new education. It's up to the universities themselves. Then there is the accreditation process and everything that follows. However, there is no prohibition or exclusive right in relation to the provision of new courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142510	Then it's Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142515	Thank you for that and thank you for at least having a dialogue now. And as the Minister also understands Mr. Bertel Haarder, we agree with a perhaps a little unusual alliance, but this is about these children and young people who so much need professional help and assessment in their situation. KL knows. Now we must have helped Aarhus University with this. So perhaps the Minister, if not today, so soon, can give a status on the Master's degree programme, and then I actually want a status on who is in it. I miss the voice of children and young people in this. It is good that the municipalities are asked that you ask the universities and that you ask the Danish Teachers' Association, but the reason why we want to put all this into practice is that there are some children and young people who today have to wait for a professional assessment and the professional help that well-trained teachers with a superstructure in psychology could give them so excellently if they were otherwise allowed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142618	Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142621	In terms of status, I also think I started my first answer by saying that I will, of course, overlook the status of this dialogue and the insight we have into it as soon as I have any further questions to ask. I agree that this is about teachers being able to take on the inclusion task in schools. They must help all the children who need help, and that is why, when the KL believes that there is a recruitment need, it is very necessary that that task is also taken up. But I have to point out again that it is not the Ministry that is the employer here, but that it has to be resolved precisely in the context of the association of municipalities with the education programmes. As the questioner knows, we are very active in communicating that dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142717	The question is closed. Thanks also to the Minister for Education and Research for being patient with the questioner's arrival. The next question is to the Minister for Food by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142734	I would like to ask the Minister for Food whether the Minister for Food considers it reasonable to have spent DKK 940,000. of taxpayers' money to get three very simple dietary advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142745	The Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142747	Let me start by saying that I do not have to deal with whether these advices are simple. It may be that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt believes that he has competence for it and is smarter than the professors and experts, directors and others who have sat in that think tank but just make it clear that it is simply factually wrong that 940,000 DKK have been spent. to develop them. That amount has been used to support a wide range of activities with many different kinds of outputs from the meal splash tank that has been reduced. We've had public hearings where 600 people have been involved. There have been debates on social media and debates in local media. And the document that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmide-Schmidt probably doesn't know, but as he could easily find out if he knows it, he has lied directly, for then he would know the answer · is a 27 page long document, which is filled with good advice and analyses and other things that will form the basis of a concrete policy by the government, which will ensure better food for the elderly and children in Denmark and in general try to alleviate some of the huge problems that we unfortunately have with the diet in Denmark, which means that thousands of people die, that the elderly are undernourished, that children develop type 2 diabetes etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142900	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429142902	Thank you, Minister. I think it is a good thing that the Minister can tell us that for the net amount of DKK 940,000. also gets a little different content than just these three dietary advices. It hasn't escaped my attention either that the meal spatter tank has spent six months on this job. I do not imagine that I am more qualified than the Minister when it comes to food. I believe that there are people out there with expert training and experience that are better than both the Minister and me. But I take note of some of the statements made in connection with these three dietary councils. Among other things: says Per Brændgaard, who is also an expert, that it is a repetition of what the Madelite keeps saying over and over again, and that there is no new thinking in it, which could otherwise have been the purpose of having such a think tank. Learn how to cook, enjoy, eat with others, and use new ingredients there is nothing new. Can the Minister, if the self-insight is mobilized to new heights, not see that these three dietary councils are not innovative at any level? In fact, I remember that when Mette Borgaard, my fifth grade teacher, took us to the school kitchen for home knowledge, these were some of the same things we were told. It's hardly surprising, and that's why I get a little curious. Now that we spend so much money on this, couldn't it have been beneficial if you had brought something a little more subtle and innovative and some a little more surprising dietary advice? As one of the other experts says: You could have asked any 6th class in Denmark and found the same dietary advice. Maybe it wouldn't have been the taxpayers in almost a million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143034	I don't think they're that banal. They have certainly not found their way to the Left Party programme, because your food policy does not reflect these basic values at all. Well, it's possible that sir... Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt knows the 6th class students who are as clever as the professors, the director of the Elders Case, the chairman of the Diet and Nutrition Association and all the other good forces who have participated in this work, but I now think it has been very good. We will certainly use it in the government as a basis for a concrete policy. We come within a few weeks with a proposal to improve the food for the elderly in Denmark. This is something which the Left has been very silent about, and which they have done nothing to improve, at least in those years when they had power. We believe that it needs to be improved. It will be based on the three dietary councils, but more importantly on the very important and thorough work done by the think tank. If sir... Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt actually knows that the think tank has made much more, why is it that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt then keeps going through the media with the three councils that have cost DKK 940,000.? And why is he repeating this today if he knows it's a lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143133	Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143134	This is perhaps due to the fact that the Minister is the prime representative of the government in special areas where the councils are highlighted as being the stone of the show. It is not long ago that the minister spent a great deal of taxpayers' money and a great deal of time on the media platforms in Denmark telling that fried pork with parsley sauce is Denmark's national law. I'm sure a lot of people are happy with fried pork with parsley sauce, too, but I think the minister owes an apology to the people. You know, spending $1 million. kr. In three such banal councils is a scandal, and it only promotes the view that we are spending time and money on something wrong in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143213	Well, it's a stand to have. Then I would like to draw Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt's attention to one of his own party colleagues' skilled communicative work, namely Henrik Høeghs. When he was Minister for Food, he spent almost a million dollars. kr. on a campaign that was about Agent Mums. Agent Mums was wearing sunglasses and had to go around Denmark and find out what the Danes liked about fast food or fast food, as he called it. The Danes were supposed to text the ministry, and what did it get? 400 texts with good advice to the Ministry were given for these 750,000 kroner. I don't have the authority to assess that campaign. I think it seems silly and a little silly. Could Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt does not tell how the campaign is much better than a campaign where tens of thousands of Danes have voted to approve a national law? It was not I who voted for it; it was the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143306	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143308	I think it is excellent that we have had a debate. But let me quote John Kofod, who is, by the way, a relatively recognized cook: I had expected more of these 25 people who are so highly educated and so meaningful than the three simple advices that I could have received from a sixth class through half an hour of dialogue. It is impressive that the Minister at the head of his think tank with 25 high-profile people cannot dust up better advice than: Learn how to cook, use raw materials and eat with others. It's like I'm taking $1 million. kr. to make a campaign for safe traffic called: Take a driver's license, fasten your seat belt and comply with the speed limit. If the Minister of Transport is there, I can see that the Minister of Transport is sitting next to the Minister of Transport is willing to pay 1 million. kr. To me for the consulting work, we have a deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143357	Well, it's a good thing that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt has a sense of humor, despite the fact that this is something that affects a lot of people. Thousands of people in Denmark die from wrong diets every year. There are children who grow up in families where they don't get proper food. There are elderly people who are lonely and malnourished. But Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt thinks this is really funny. When Henrik Høegh was Minister for Food, I just have to say, if it is that you have to look at what is being spent on money I can easily vouch for what the food tank here has delivered, you spent almost 1 million. kr. on making some movies for the Internet about Agent Mums, who with ties and sunglasses went out to Bjarne's sausage in Ballerup to find out that no one wanted to talk to him. - Sir... Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt does not tell how it is that such a dilettant actor's trip to a sausage car is more qualified than what this meal think tank with professors, union presidents, directors and all sorts of others has done?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143451	I can see that the Minister for Food took part in the same rhetorical course as the Prime Minister when it comes to answering questions...
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143458	I have to say that, of course, it is not nice of the Minister to end with a question when Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt does not have the floor at all anymore. Nevertheless, that is the way it is. That's to apologize.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143508	Maybe it's just that enthusiasm grabbed me at the moment...
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143513	This isn't really a criticism of sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt. It is just an expression that the President was too slow to stand up. It's pure self-criticism. And we respect the President). That's good, and I thank you. This very exciting and sometimes also entertaining question, Question No. 12 is hereby finalized. Now there are high expectations of Question No. 13 • Not least because I can see from the Minister of Transport that he is in a well-developed mood today, so it will be exciting. Nevertheless, it is Mr. Peter Juel Jensen, who has to ask the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143546	Thank you, President. After all, the Minister and I are happy to be able to be the raisin in the sausage end and we will try to live up to the expectations that the President has for us, not least. I will start by reading my question: will the Minister intervene against Copenhagen Airport and ensure reasonable conditions for domestic passengers both in terms of waiting times in security and accessibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143610	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143612	It is the case that Copenhagen Airporte A/S is, as you know, a private limited company. It is not part of the Ministry of Transport, and in a rule of law such as the Danish one I cannot, as a minister, take action against private companies unless I have a specific legal basis for this. Otherwise, we would leave the rule of law and move to the banana republic, and I do not think there is any wish for that, even on the part of the questioner. So with regard to accessibility requirements, it follows from EU rules that at the airport there must be a so-called PRM scheme... a scheme for people with reduced mobility... and thus the airport has a duty to ensure that all persons who want help to get through the airport or in and out of the plane can get help by using the scheme for free. It is clear from the reason for the question that it is due to a concern of Bornholm patients who are either on their way to treatment or are finished and on their way back home, and it is emphasized in this connection that the stairs to the plane at gate A 7 are not very friendly to patients on crutches. But it is the case that this scheme, the PRM scheme, also applies to people with crutches who are going down the stairs to the plane at gate A 7. So this arrangement applies to these people. As regards the waiting times at the airport security check, I can inform you that, under the Aviation Act, the Transport Authority is monitoring the capacity at the airport to ensure that the airport can offer the necessary capacity at any time in order to wind up traffic so that the airport meets Denmark's needs for domestic and foreign traffic links. If there are problems with the capacity at the airport or with the airport's obligations to the accessibility of the sick and disabled when travelling by air, it is the task of the Danish Road Traffic Authority to contact the airport to ensure that the deficiencies are corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143811	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429143813	Thank you. I am a little sorry that the Minister is replying as I had expected. But I assume that the Minister has some sort of objection or right of objection. You have to have that, especially when you can send the Traffic Authority out to see how long people have to wait in security. I guess you don't do that unless there's a purpose to go out there and look. I also assume that the state still has some stocks, which means that we have an opportunity to influence a board of directors along that path. But the reason why I am asking the question is actually that I have received several enquiries from Bornholmers who can tell me that they have waited as much as 48 minutes in security, and that is much more than what has been used to before when there was a definite domestic terminal. There have been reading letters in Bornholm's Tidende, which have been enquiries to Bornholm's Passenger Association from someone who operates on Bornholm, who doesn't think that this is cost effective when it comes to recognising so much longer travel time. Then, of course, there are also commuters who leave Bornholm in the morning and go home in the afternoon/evening, and who say that now they need to spend too much of their free time/work time queued in security. This is just not designed for commuters. In addition, we also note that while the service has deteriorated significantly, Copenhagen Airport has actually also used the opportunity to raise the price of the aircraft that lands in and takes off from Kastrup. So as a consumer you experience higher prices with a worse service. Last but not least, I had an experience myself, where I saw an older lady, who wore two crutches, and who went down a very smooth and a wet iron staircase without any help. We must be aware that the Bornholmers, who belong to the capital region, must go to the Rigshospitalet if they are to have a major intervention, so many sick children must go that way. So I believe that the Minister should actually exercise his right to object or make use of the possibility of influencing a limited liability company through its share capital. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144028	Now, as you know, it is several years ago that the State sold the majority of shares at Copenhagen Airport, and I know the policy of the Left so well that I know that this is what we want to do for all sorts of other companies as well. When you sell out of the dominant majority of shares, you can no longer go in and trump. You can have a lot of political opinions that something is being done wrong, but you cannot count on it to have an impact. What I can influence as Minister for Transport is to ensure compliance, for example. the provisions on accessibility for disabled people, pedestrians, people with crutches and other things that the questioner is asking about. There is a provision for aid to be provided. So if you experience what the questioner experienced the second time, you can simply say to the airport that this has to be done and then they will request assistance. I believe that it is Falck that they have an agreement with, and it is quite free for passengers. Then I would also like to say that I would ask the Danish Road Traffic Authority to carry out their supervision in such a way that they also focus on the waiting time in security.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144131	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144132	Thanks for the little opening. I think I heard the Minister say that the dominant majority of shares in Copenhagen Airport were no longer held. Neither have you, but you still have a certain stack of stocks. In other words, there must still be some influence away, and I assume that the Minister has also appointed some people to sit on the board on the basis of the shareholding held. Then I think I should also say that you have to go through security and, for example, you are. It is difficult to walk and need support, there is a fine button that you can press, and then it says on a sign that you have to wait up to 45 minutes to get that assistance. It is difficult to include in the time that you have to get to the airport before departure, because you need 48 minutes to queue in security, and 45 minutes to get some assistance, if you are not followed right out to the gate of Falck, it is therefore a very, very long journey time to bid people who have a health challenge because you are part of a capital region. This is my last chance to ask the Minister a question, and I can do that in the last 10 seconds. I understood from the Minister that he will look into this further. I would like to suggest to the Minister that the Minister and the Minister usually listen to good advice that you take an oath on the municipalities that have an airport, so that we clarify the problem across Denmark, and so that we get a local opinion on what kind of conditions it is. For domestic traffic at airports must help to bind our kingdom closer together. Will the Minister consider that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144303	I'm just gonna say for the record, sir. Peter Juel Jensen has another question. But now the minister answers, and then Mr. Peter Juel Jensen one more chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144310	Oh, yeah. There may be follow-up questions. You just have to know that when you answer here. Unfortunately, however, I have to disappoint, and I think the questioner is aware of that too. The Danish Road Traffic Authority has some tasks to control, among others. the airport and monitor flight safety and other matters and the tasks they perform. This is not done in dialogue with municipalities. This is done on the basis of a set of rules. But what I have said today and that is what can be taken further is that I will ask the Danish Traffic Authority to keep a special eye on the waiting in their work forward. It's not all day, because these numbers aren't so bad, but it's in rush hour periods where there's stories that it might have gotten bad. I would ask them to pay particular attention to this. It'll be a few weeks before they're ready with that information. But I'm gonna ask them to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144357	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen and that's the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144359	Well, I would like to thank the Minister very much for the opening that the Minister has made here. I just think Minister, it is important that when you go out and dot Copenhagen Airport on your shoulder, you should have the facts in order. And I assume that Copenhagen Airport listens a lot to our Transport Minister. Everybody else does. So should we. Therefore, the facts must be in order. I would suggest to the Minister that he send out such a shepherd letter to the municipalities that have domestic traffic into Copenhagen to see if they will just ask a group of those who are now using the plane a lot, so that we get all the facts on the table, and so that what we are going to go on to Copenhagen Airport holds true, and so that we have changed conditions, so that both commuters and other domestic travellers experience the domestic traffic that we once had.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144446	It is the case that the Danish Road Traffic Authority is doing very, very thorough work, and when they investigate this case, it is simply in the form of spot checks, where it is examined both during the rush hour and outside, i.e. how long waiting time there is and how many percent gets through within 15 minutes. These are the completely standardised studies that are being carried out. And there I would now ask them to have an extraordinary focus on this issue, among other things. because it has been raised by the questioner here. We've been following it, too. It is not only on Bornholm, but elsewhere in Denmark that this has been raised. That's not how I might be able to tell you as such a service message that the Minister of Transport appoints people to the board. Københavns Airport has been sold, but the share ownership is for the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144528	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. I can confirm the Minister for Transport's information that this is a debate that is also taking place in other parts of the country. I don't want it to be a secret. But I would like to thank the Minister for Transport and thank him. Peter Juel Jensen. And with this question we can say that Question Time is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429144548	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 30 April 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
