ParlaMint-DK_20150114125959	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen): Bill no. L 107 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general housing, etc.) Bill No. L 108 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general housing, etc.) Bill No. L 109 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general housing, etc.) Minister for Culture (Marianne Jelved): Bill No. L 110 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the promotion of doping-free sport and the law on equations). Minister for Employment (Henrik Dam Kristensen): Bill no. L 111 (Proposal for a law on cash benefits). Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 53 (Proposal for a decision of Parliament to regard animals as living beings in legislation). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150114130103	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until tomorrow, Thursday 15 January 2015. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, to justify the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114130136	Thank you for that, President. The reason is, of course, the same one that has also been advanced in the public debate, namely that we are dealing with a mosque, in this case the Grimhøjmosqueen and then also the association which, in our view, is clearly calling for, for example, a ban on the use of hormones. commit violence, and who engage in subversive work in a number of ways. And there we believe that our constitution allows you to come after such associations in different ways. Let me start by highlighting two paragraphs of the Constitution which we believe could be relevant. The first is § 67, which states: "Citizens have the right to unite in society in order to worship God in the way that agrees with their beliefs, but that nothing is taught or done that is contrary to morality or public order. ▪ We think that is a paragraph that could be used. Another paragraph is Paragraph 68, where in paragraph 68. 2 states: "Conventions that work or seek to achieve their goals by violence, incitement of violence or similar criminal influences against different thinkers are dissolved by judgment. ▪ It is so described that one can actually ban the association provisionally, and afterwards one can determine whether it is prohibited, and one must have settled that in a case before the judicial system. That is what we think there is a need to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114130257	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is the Minister of Justice to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114130306	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors for bringing the issue of the Grimhøjmoskeen into the Assembly Hall. This is an extremely relevant subject, and I think it is quite appropriate for us to discuss it with each other. I would like to start by saying that I strongly reject the views expressed by individuals associated with the mosque at Grimhøjvej in the media. I have no sympathy for those opinions, I have no sympathy for those opinions, I have no sympathy for those people, and there is every reason for political as well as moral to reject their statements. Not least in the time we are in right now, it is crucial that we in Denmark discuss how best to combat radicalisation and extremism. And we can't be wrong. For there are specific in relation to the mosque at Grimhøjvej we have seen examples of individuals expressing a human vision and a world view which is completely and completely incompatible with fundamental Danish democratic values. There can be no two positions on this, at least not if we acknowledge democracy. But what we can discuss in return, and should and must discuss, is how we fight it most effectively. Because there should be no doubt about either my position or that of the government: we will do everything possible within the framework of the constitution to combat radicalisation and extremism which undermines our democratic freedoms and which, by its very nature, is an attack on the Denmark we want. Extremist movements should not be allowed to take root in Denmark and in our society. I think we can stand together completely on that. The terrorist attack in France has not made this discussion any less topical. Because when such a violent, inhumane and horrific terrorist attack is carried out, it is an expression of the fact that freedom of expression and democracy are under attack, not only in France but in many parts of the world. It's an attack that pains us all. I myself had the opportunity to take part in the Paris march on Sunday, and whether we are talking about attacks on school children in Pakistan, on minorities or others in Nigeria, on a Jewish museum in Brussels or on cartoons in France, we should unite throughout the world in condemning those attacks. Our answer, also in Denmark, must be that we move even closer together, that we stick to our values, in our open society, in freedom of expression and in everything we believe in and love. We must use our freedom of expression, our democratic rights, and we must never allow ourselves to be shaken in the belief in free and open democracy. That is why it is good that today in the Folketing we have the opportunity to speak with one voice together. We stand guard over our democracy and our freedom. Democracy will win and the anti-democratic forces must lose. The question debate we have today contains two points. I should like to begin with the first: what can we tell the government about the mosque on Grimhøjvej? We have had the opportunity to discuss it in other contexts here in the Danish Parliament, and therefore there will of course also be repetitions of something I have already said, among other things. on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs. According to information from East Jutland Police, the so-called Syrian Warriors are recruited both to Syria and Iraq, apparently from a small group of very religious young people, such as: belong to an association in connection with the mosque at Grimhøjvej. Østjyllands Politiken has stated in several contexts that the police, together with the City of Aarhus, have launched a number of initiatives to stem this recruitment. The effort actually seems to have had a positive effect. The number of outgoing Danes and resident foreigners to the conflict in Syria and Iraq associated with the Aarhus area has decreased. This is a positive development which illustrates, I would like to say, the importance and impact of the right preventive action. In this context, let me remind you that the police intelligence service has many tasks in this time. However, one of the most important, most important and important tasks is to keep an eye on those who are planning to leave Syria or Iraq or who have been in Syria or Iraq, and that is 24 hours a day. None of those people should be in doubt for a second that they have the authorities' eyes on them all the time. And precisely because we must be so careful both to prevent the departure of holy warriors and to prevent some of those we can prevent from coming back here, PET is of course extremely aware of the situation that may be around the mosque on Grimhøjvej. Then there is the second part of the question: what options do we have to close the mosque? Let me just be completely honest with you: I am also tempted by just closing the mosque, just as I may be tempted by closing biker castles, paedophilia rings, Hizb ut-Tahrir and others who so clearly stand for views and opinions and values that I do not believe are compatible with our open, democratic Denmark. But it's just not that simple. As I have mentioned, when we recently discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly the possibility of seeking, within the framework of the Constitution, a possible association behind the mosque at Grimsøjvej dissolved, there are a number of considerations to be taken into account. Let me start with the conclusion: an association can only be dissolved if the legal conditions are met. This means that there must be sufficient evidence, and it remains the professional judgement of the Ministry of Justice that there is currently insufficient evidence against a possible association behind the Grimhøjmoskeen. When I use the term a possible association today, it is because I do not have a direct knowledge of the organizational conditions around the mosque. But let me justify the conclusion: Article 78 of the Constitution provides for the possibility that an association which has already been formed may be dissolved by judgment. A dissolution presupposes that the association has an illegal purpose. This means, for example, that the association... must have as its purpose the implementation or involvement in criminal offences. What matters will be what the association really stands for. That is, for example, the case. not sufficient merely to assess the objectives formally pursued by the association under its statutes. On the other hand, it is generally accepted that the fact that an association has infringed the law on a single or a few occasions cannot in itself justify the fact that the purpose of the association is considered to be unlawful. The same applies to the fact that individual members of the association have committed offences. Thus, the dissolution of an association by judgment, on the grounds that the association has an illegal purpose, could in general be considered only if the association or its members, as a general part of the association's activities, engage in criminal activities. In addition, the Constitution contains a special rule on associations that act by or seek to achieve their purpose by violence, incitement to violence or similar criminal influences against different thinkers. Such associations, as stated in the provision, will be dissolved by judgment. An association cannot be dissolved by a government measure. However, an association may be provisionally prohibited, but then an action must be brought against it immediately for its dissolution. However, it is not the case that it is simply left to the government's free political discretion to impose a provisional ban on an association. Thus, under the Constitution, a Minister of Justice may impose a provisional ban on an association only if the legal conditions for such an association are met. This means, among other things, that there must be a proper basis for proof before a provisional ban can be imposed, and it is therefore still the professional judgement that that basis is not available at this stage in relation to a possible association behind the Grimhøjmoskeen. And when the professional assessment is not available, it is difficult to move forward in relation, for example, to ask the Attorney General to investigate questions about the dissolution of a possible association. Unfortunately, in the extreme environments that exist in Denmark there may be individuals or groups trying to promote their extreme, undemocratic and thus undemocratic attitudes by violent means or other forms of criminal activity. We should not accept that as a society. So what can we do in this situation? Yes, there must be punishment here and, to the extent that they are resident foreign nationals, possibly also with expulsions at the moment of extremism becoming a criminal offence. I would also like to say even more about the preventive work that we want to start and the importance of a continued obstacle to leaving the conflict areas in the Middle East, but I will have to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114131344	I would like to thank you for answering the question to the Minister for Justice. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114131407	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Normally we go up and say that we are not surprised by the report from the Minister for Justice, but yet I am actually a little surprised somewhere today, because I actually expected that we would gradually begin to move a little bit in this area. If you look at what they did in that mosque I was about to say, but at least running around doing what they are saying, you see that there are a number of examples of them crossing the border, including the limit of the constitution. I think the Constitution is very clear in this area. In fact, I think it's quite clearly defined where the limit goes. You can, for example. take a quote from the imam from the Grimhøjmosque, who says: "Allah, destroy all the Zionist Jews. They're no challenge to you. It's a call for violence. It's a clear call for violence. In the past, the Minister of Justice has stated that it is useless because it is an isolated case. But if you have followed the debate a little, you know that the chairman of the mosque association has backed up his imam. This is not an isolated case. It is a coordinated and concerted effort on the part of the mosque. And if you look at what this President, among other things. We have also said, and this is from the DR programme • The damned Mosque, which has been sent recently, it can be seen that about the converter Victor Kristensen, who has been out fighting in among others. Syria, says: "And I think that if he does it for his faith, and that he does it for Allah's sake, then he's a martyr, he's a hero. So that's what the president of the mosque association says. That's celebrating Terror. It is a clear call for terrorism. He salutes terrorists. You can't do that. I believe that our legislation on terrorism in this area is already quite, quite clear. The other day there was an example of someone who had posted a post on Facebook with an article referring to the terrorist attack in Paris, and then he had attached a happy smiley. The police considered this to be the basis for searching the person's home, for a detention. One could do it because of a smiley because he signaled that he thought it was very good that there was a terrorist attack in Paris. Then why on earth don't you come after these people for what they've done? That's a lot more pronounced than that. It's worse than what's put up there, but it's kind of bad enough. It just shows that we already have some opportunities in the legislation that we do not use. I think that is a major problem. We also know that in the past, it was last year, the East Jutland Police have published an inventory showing that 22 of the 27 young people from East Jutland who have gone down to participate in the armed conflict in Syria and Iraq have entered the mosque. The former Islamist and Imam Akhmed Akkari have come forward and have said that the mosque calls for terror and urges young people to go to holy war. It has also been documented in the press in the past that there is a link between foreign organisations, Salafist organisations, extreme organisations and the mosque in question, and that there is cooperation, and I wonder if there is still any. And all of this has been documented in the daily press, so it can't come as news, even for the Justice Minister or for the people over at the Justice Department. MetroXpress has previously been able to read that the imam who called for the killing of Jews has had close contact with the person Morten Storm as he was part of the extreme Muslim environment. Mort Storm confirms that he has received cash from the imam from the mosque, which was to be used in his work to create an area in Somalia with Sharia, and although the mosque is not much to admit that they contribute to such a thing, they confirm that they know Morten Storm, and they have also confirmed this in public. So we have some bell-clear examples that they have crossed the line bell-clear examples. In addition, we have a lot of circumstantial evidence that points in the same direction, and if you add all that together, you should come to the conclusion that there is probably something about the talk. We have also seen examples of cheating on public funds. There are so many examples. In the Danish People's Party we are of the opinion that what is happening in the Grimhøjmoskeen is social subversive work. They are disturbing public order, they are calling for violence and terror with their mention of the Islamic State and their support for it, and, as far as their Imam's call to kill Jews is concerned, we believe in fact that the constitution is quite clear in these areas. And the politicians must take the lead. Politicians should not sit around and wait for somebody in the system somewhere to say they can. Politicians must take the lead, and that is why we must decide politically to apply the Constitution. Then, on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, Conservative and Danish People's Party, I shall make the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to initiate a public prosecutor's inquiry into whether the Grimhøjmoskeen in Århus and the association behind can be prohibited either by reference to Article 67 of the Constitution or Article 78 (2) of the Constitution. 2. Parliament calls on the government to call for negotiations so that we can ensure better prevention efforts and a consistent line against the extremists. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20150114131929	Thank you. That's what Mr. Martin Henriksen read out proposals for the adoption of four parties, of course, are part of the further negotiations. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114131953	First of all, I would like to thank the authors and those who have asked for this debate. It comes from, among other things. by the DR documentary, which was sent a very short time ago by the Danish Radio. And I would like to take this opportunity, in addition to thanking the authors and, of course, also the Minister for Justice for answering the question, to praise the Danish Radio and the skilled journalists who have made the documentary "The damned Mosque." For they have helped to bring to the light, to bring to the public what are some terrible undemocratic views expressed in and around the Grimm High Mosque and by individuals in and around the association. And the attitudes expressed in and around the Grimhøjmosque and the association behind it are undemocratic, unsympathetic and unsympathetic. One must also say that one gets the impression that the association behind the mosque among others. is a breeding ground for the hatching of Syrian warriors, and that is something we cannot but distance ourselves from. By democratic means and by democratic means alone, we must express our disdain and contempt for the extremist forces which, if necessary, will overthrow society and which will insult and violence against democratic values. We in the Left believe that a strong and old democracy like the Danish one is, of course, so strong and old that one among other things. by the force of argument can resist the fundamentalist Islamist undemocratic poison, as some people in and around the Grimhøjmosque express. We understand that some people want to close the mosque, and so do not mind that the Attorney General investigates it. However, we are not in favour of the proposal for adoption which the previous speaker read out, because we in the Left are concerned about doing what works when it comes to the protection of terrorism, as well as the fight against fundamentalist attitudes, those which are clearly flourishing in and around the Grimm High Mosque. And, in our view, it is no good to close the rooms in which the mosque is housed, or, for that matter, to level the buildings in which it is in, because it is not the bricks that are the problem, it is the people who preach hatred for Danish society. That is not the framework for the mosque, but it is the content that is the problem. And by banning, you risk merely driving the fundamentalist forces underground. And just as we have successfully fought Soviet Communists, Fascists and Nazis in Denmark, we must fight against the attitudes and undemocratic values expressed by the people in and around the Grimhøjmosque. We're gonna do what works, and I don't think that's closing the premises the mosque has in it. What works is to go after those who violate the fundamental values of Danish society and our terrorist and criminal law. And we must go after them with all the means that the penal code now allows. In this context, we are pleased that the government is now going to use the country fraud paragraphs. This is something we in the Left have been talking about for months, but we have been talking about deaf ears. The current government has, as it were, been sitting on its hands in this matter. And now the government has announced that it wants to use the country-slayer paragraphs, and we are pleased about that, but we very much fear that the report is purely rhetorical. In the Left, we want action, and we think, in a way, that much of the legislation we have in this area is good enough. However, we just want the government and the prosecution to use the legislation that exists to go after the people who are criminals against the rules set up by our society. That is why today we are going to make a clear call to the government to do something and also to criticise the fact that nothing has been done in the past. It is not new that young people are going to Syria. It was something we knew before there was a terrorist attack in Paris. This is something that has been going on for months, for years, and the government has done nothing. There we in the Left want to call on the government to take action, drop the empty rhetoric and actually take action. After all, we have presented a whole series of proposals for this, and we are happy to discuss them today. That is the position of the Left Parliamentary Group on the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132427	There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132431	So I sometimes find it a little difficult to find out the views of the Left. It's like you cover everything from one spectrum to the next. I think that in this matter, in this debate, which is so serious, the Left needs to express itself somewhat more clearly. It is of course no use, and the Left must know this only by all parties, to make an appeal to the government. What is needed is for a majority to impose a number of things on the government, and the Left could have been in a majority, but apparently it does not want to be so in relation to this proposal for adoption. I think that we need to go more strictly to the strings than the Left does. I think it is too weak in relation to this serious matter, as it is that we do not discuss exactly what it is that is working. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen said several times: we must do what works. Yes, sir, and that is a call to the government. But it doesn't work. I think we can already see that as soon as this question debate is over. It's not working. And then you talk about the content of the mosque? Yes, but as long as the content is born in the mosque, which is a place of terror, as many people who have been involved in that mosque also point out, it is no good for it to remain there because the content is in that mosque, and that is the point of origin, and that is why the Left must be more consistent in this matter than what I hear from the rapporteur, who disappoints me somewhat.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132612	I fully agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that the government has not done what we wanted. But when we say that we want to do what works, we also say to the Danish People's Party that a proposal to get the Attorney General to check whether you can close the mosque can be accepted, but that does not lead to anything. I can already say at this stage that the Attorney General will arrive at the conclusion that the mosque cannot be closed. And where are we? Then you could say that we would have to take a case before the courts. It then takes 3, 4, 5 years, and in the meantime nothing has happened. Even if we close the premises, you just drive it somewhere else, you open a new mosque, you open a new association, you open ten new associations. We have to do what works, and that's going after the people. I know, and I would like to say this to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, that it is difficult, it is not easy, but there are opportunities in the penal code. This requires that the government that sits has the courage to use the paragraphs of the terrorist law, to start trial cases and other things, and I must say that I am disappointed with the government, but to move towards something that we know will have no effect, I do not think that makes much sense in this quite serious matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132720	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132721	Okay, we can very much agree that there are opportunities in the criminal code and other legislation, as Mr. Karsten Lauritzen points out, but then I'm just saying, it's no use just calling on the government, because the government probably knows that well. In fact, I believe that the Minister for Justice is quite aware that there are many possibilities in the penal code, but they are not being used. And now the country's largest opposition party has urged the government to use those opportunities... do you really think something will come of it? You have to oblige the government to use those opportunities. Mr. Karsten Lauritzen well, and I don't understand why you don't go all the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132801	Yes, but I can also say to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that we have nothing against the proposal for adoption that lies and, if it comes to the vote, we will vote in favour of it. However, there is no clear solution to the problem we have in the proposal for adoption formulated by the Danish People's Party. We in the Left themselves have called for a query debate on how to use the country-dangerous And we want to be involved in any attempt to force the government to do more in this matter, if that is something that works, but we also have to recognise that closing the premises where something is going on and throwing some out of a building does not solve any problem. That is where we need the opportunities provided by the law to go after the people, and that is, we believe, the most viable and effective way to go. It may then be difficult to explain; it may well be that this is not the solution, but it is the one that will in the long term lead to the best result, namely that we get something done about the fundamentalist forces expressing the things that are going on in and around, among other things. The ugly mosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132903	Mrs Trine Bramsen, I would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114132905	I would like to start by commending the Left for sticking to the fact that undemocratic attitudes and utterances should not be dealt with by evading our democracy and our rule of law, as I hear the tactics of other parties. It is quite true, as the rapporteur says, that when we sent a Danish contribution to Iraq, we had a debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber about whether the country fraud clause and a definition of it should stand in the way of us sending a contribution to Iraq. We had that debate, but I would also like to hear from the rapporteur, if it is not true that the government has already started work at the same time, so it is not new to us about the definition of the country fraud clause by the Criminal Code. So this is not a turning point, even though it is on page 5 of the Left's attack manual; it is a work that has been planned all along but has been speeded up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133016	Well, then I don't understand why the government doesn't get started. I have to say to Mrs Trine Bramsen that I simply do not understand that. If the government agrees with the Left, why did the government not do anything on 2 October or 2 November or 2 December or 2 January? We had to go all the way up to yesterday before the government said: yes, we can see that this is perhaps a viable road it will look at. In other words, we do not need the Criminal Code to look at some committee work. We need the government to get to work on test cases so that we can find out what the scope of the legislation we have is, among other things. Terrorist law. There is a responsibility on the part of the government and it is not a responsibility that we think the government has managed wisely in this matter. We are glad that we are now in agreement and have come to the point where we stand. We think it's a viable road, among other things. to use the landslanger paragraphs. But, frankly, I think that the government should recognise that this was clearly not what was meant on 2 October when we discussed this in the Parliamentary Chamber. There it was pushed into committee on the Criminal Code Council. We need government action, not harsh rhetoric.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133115	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133120	I just think we should stick to what is the facts, and that is, of course, that work was started many months ago. And the fact that this has now been speeded up, surely the rapporteur can only be satisfied with it. But this is not a new initiative. This has been speeded up. And I would like to know whether the rapporteur is not satisfied with that and whether we cannot stand together to be happy that this work has been started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133148	Of course, we can be happy about that. But I would now have been happier if the government had done something a year ago or for that matter on 2 October. That is fine, but I just find it difficult to commend the government for speeding up something that should have been carried out six months ago or months ago. I understand that the rapporteur needs to praise himself and the government, that is the task of the rapporteur. But my task as rapporteur for the country's largest opposition party is to demand that the government do something about this matter. And you haven't done enough. There is not a single Syrian warrior who has been convicted, despite the fact that we agree that in this way we have a penal code where it is possible to judge at least some of those who have been fighting on the side of the Islamic State. I don't understand why the government doesn't get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133234	There are several brief comments. I'm going to review the balance we have here. We must conclude an urgent question within two hours, which means that the larger parties can count on three to four brief comments in the course of the process. I can now see that the members of the Danish People's Party have been so many that they will have spent their brief remarks on the rapporteur of the Left. I would just like to ask if that is what you want. But at least it's Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen, who is now at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133312	This is a difficult choice, isn't it? Thank you for that dilemma. May I just say that I think that the rapporteur of the Left has misunderstood this about buildings. Now I have read section 78 of the Constitution very carefully, all the pieces too, and there is nothing about buildings • nothing about buildings. It's associations, it's the conquered Islamists behind the Grimhøjmoskeen, we're gonna close down as an association. So forget about buildings. I have also heard the Social Democrat rapporteur, Trine Bramsen, talk about bricks. That's not what we're talking about. There is an association behind the Grimhøjmosque, and it must be closed, it must be dissolved by law. Can't we just get out of this building discussion, because that's not what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133356	I am honoured by the many questions from the Danish People's Party which are being used on the rapporteur of the Left. So I would like to sign for that, and I think it is something that the Minister of Justice welcomes. Because then there'll be fewer questions for her. But then I will answer Mr. Søren Espersen's question. If it is about associations, it is the case that it is very easy to create an association. So it may be that, after years of judicial work, we are banned from an association. If we can do that, we can of course consider doing so, but the people in question will then just set up a new association. It is very easy to form a union. It's gonna take a few people to get together. There are virtually no formal requirements to be complied with. There's no need to open a bank account or anything else. So, in terms of going along that path, I think, to be perfectly honest, that although you can sympathize with it, that is to say, that it can work effectively on the surface and that you are capable of acting as a politician, I certainly want to be • I just think you will see that this is not a way for the people who make up the associations who speak in the associations that are members of the associations to be shut down their undemocratic activities. That is why we must go after the people, not after what surrounds them in the form of an association or a mosque or a building. And we don't really disagree with the purpose. I think we just disagree on what works.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133506	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133507	But it's people we're going after. That is what this is all about. So, any association can meet one day in the Maribo Assembly House and the next day somewhere in Copenhagen. That's not the point. It is the people, the circle behind the foundation at the Grimhøjmosque, who are and become Islamists. They are the ones who must no longer be allowed to have an association because it calls for violence. It seeks to influence different thinking so that they instigate violence. That is what matters. So it has nothing to do with the Grimhøjmosque as a building. Moreover, it is not very attractive. It did not matter that it was razed to the ground, for it is ugly like original sin. So let's just get rid of it while we close the association.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133553	I understand, sir. Søren Espersen's argument, but you just have to admit the facts. I am a member of, I believe 15 different associations, and I believe that if you were an Islamist and would like to use an association to hide your undemocratic activities, you could quickly set up 15 associations such as the one behind the Grimhøjmosque. Then we can close one of them, and then you open ten new ones. That's why we have to go after the individuals. If it made sense to go after the buildings or the association, we in the Left would like to join it, but in our opinion it does not. And we have succeeded in fighting undemocratic forces, among others. neo-Nazis, by going after the people it is about, instead of the apparatus they have built around their undemocratic activities. We think we should do the same in this matter. And then we need the criminal code. That's where we're disappointed in the government. But with the Minister for Justice's latest announcement, we can hope that something will be done about it. But we're a little worried it's gonna be hard rhetoric.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133652	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133656	It will be short and it will actually be just a comment. It is not really a question for the rapporteur, but actually just a thank you or a praise to the Left. Sometimes, when you're praised down here, it tends to be almost a Judasky, but it isn't. That is a sincere thank you for sticking to the objective, what works, and sticking firmly to democratic rights. I would just like to thank the rapporteur for that. I think it is important that the country's largest party does not act in a bad way, but always takes democratic legal principles into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133736	I'd like to sign for that. That is, of course, our set of values in the Left, and of course we will not compromise on that. Otherwise, you run the risk that it is they who want something else, whose errands you take. But I would like to say that we probably do not agree more with the Radical Left than we do with the provisions of the penal code. We want the Minister of Justice and the government of which the Radical Left is also a part to do much more than has been done. I would like to sign for the praise, but also say that we have some areas where we do not agree with the government, and we must then have a debate on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133819	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114133830	Let me start by stating that we in the Folketing must stand together and uphold democratic values. We have different political views across party lines, but we are first and foremost democrats. It is my hope that this will be the starting point for today's question debate. Let me also say at the outset that I welcome this debate in the House. On top of the documentary about the Grimhøjmosque and the tragic events in Paris, which clearly show what can happen if we do not stop the evil in time, it is good to have a debate here in the Assembly. With democracy as a common starting point, it is not only worrying to hear statements from people about the Grimhøj environment; it is, in my opinion, also harmful to our society. When you pay tribute to Syrian warriors as heroes, when you want Islamic State, and when you distance yourself directly from our democracy, I do not understand what you want in a democratic society such as Denmark. However, as a Social Democrat, I do not believe that the unsavory and incomprehensible attitudes are being combated by putting out the very pillars of our democracy. Like everyone else, the Grimhøjmosque must comply with the legislation in force in Denmark, and if they do not, they must be prosecuted immediately. However, the positions they legally express must be combated with counter-arguments and with democracy. As a democrat, I believe very much that our Danish values, democratic values, are stronger than theirs and that our values can and will therefore win. Let me repeat my words from the debate we had on the closure of the Grimhøjmosque in November: not even the biggest bulldozer can break down the attitudes of people around the Grimhøjmosque. And, as several experts and the police point out, it gives some advantages in relation to the environment around the mosque that you can keep track of young people moving around in the radicalised environment and get them out of the environment. It is also our starting point that we can see the very clear results of the police's intensive monitoring of the Grimm High Mosque in particular. This has meant that the increase in the number of young people who are heading towards holy war has slowed down considerably. The police and the prosecution keep a very close eye on the Grimhøjmosque and other extremist environments, and here too our position is clear: if there is a legal basis for raising a case, this must be done and then it will be done. Radicalisation and extremism are serious threats to our values, and it must be dealt with accordingly. In September, the government presented an action plan to combat radicalisation and extremism. The action plan contains a series of initiatives to prevent radicalisation, to combat existing radicalised extremist tendencies, including: the bill on passport entry on departure to the Holy War, which we will adopt on Friday, as well as a number of rehabilitation initiatives. The initiatives presented here in September are based on the terrorist packages and the legislation already in place in this area. These are not the last initiatives we will see from the political point of view. Because as things develop, as society evolves, extremist groups also find constantly new methods and channels for recruiting. Ten years ago, we were unable to predict how developments would be in the social media, that it would be a central point for extremist attitudes, and that is why it has also been necessary to take action in this field. This is just one example of the need for constant follow-up and action with useful initiatives. This will be an area which will be discussed over and over again in this Chamber, because if we want to protect the freedoms of the many, it is necessary to limit them for the few. On behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I would like to make it clear that we must do everything in our power to combat radicalisation and extremism. The threat is serious, and that is why we must continue the strong political focus in this area. And then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption The Parliament strongly rejects the positions expressed by people associated with the Grimhøjmoskeen. The threat posed by extremists must be taken very seriously. Individuals calling for violence or terrorism must be held accountable. The Folketing urges the government to maintain its focus on combating radicalisation and extremism. • V 13).
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134401	Then there are six who have asked for brief comments. If I allow all six of them to join, I have to anticipate that we will not be able to make brief comments to the Minister of Justice. I can't know for sure, but I would still ask you to consider that with the time limits we have. The first person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134422	Thank you. I think it is sad that the best that the government-led Social Democratic Party can come up with is a nonsensical declaration of intent, an empty declaration of intent, because that is what lies in it. There's a lot of words. And words mean something, words mean a lot, but the problem is that when you've come up with a lot of words for a long time and nothing happens, they're going to mean less and less. So the words must be followed by action, and that is what we really need; that is what we really need. Then the government and the Social Democrats are starting to move these days, and I think you can assume that it is because of the terrorist attack in Paris, but you've been standing still for a really, really long time. It has rejected proposals from the Danish People's Party and from other parties, which have stood completely still. Now you start doing a little bit. Then today we have the opportunity to move one step further. This opportunity is not being seized by the Social Democrats, but an empty declaration of intent is being made. I think everyone can sign what it says. Once upon a time, a wise man said to me: if everyone can sign what it says, then just think about whether it really makes sense and whether it actually moves something. Because there has to be some action in it. Where's the action? So I'd like to put a BOLO on that. The second is a question. The rapporteur said that we should not use undemocratic means; that is how I heard it. But does the rapporteur think that our constitution is undemocratic? For the means that we propose to use are the means that lie in the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134554	I simply disagree with the methods of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Martin Henriksen says that if we just decide today to close the Grimhøjmosque, this problem is gone. I simply disagree with that. I wish it were the case that, just by closing a mosque, the problem was solved, but that is not the case. This is also the reason why the government already presented an action plan in September, and it was not the first legislation behind which there are initiatives and which puts a massive focus on this area; it contains significant initiatives. Because we do not believe that simply putting democracy out of effect and closing a mosque will solve that problem. But that's where we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134635	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134636	I simply think it is nonsense to say that we are putting democracy out of effect when we propose that the funds provided for in the Constitution be used. Democracy cannot contain everything. Well, we have a constitution. I assume that Mrs Trine Bramsen believes that we have a constitution that describes how the monarchy works, how democracy works, that it is the foundation of our democracy. It is very clear in the Constitution that we have freedom of religion, but there are limits to it. It is very clear in the Constitution that we have freedom of association, but there are limits to it. That is very clear, and I think it is an interesting announcement if the Social Democrats think it is undemocratic. Because then you have to think that everything is practically possible. Then I just want to say that we do not claim that all problems will be solved if we ban the Grimhøjmosque and the association behind it. But we make it difficult for them to unite, we make it difficult for them to gather together, and we make it difficult for them to coordinate their work, such as... is about sending young people to participate in so-called holy war. This is quite simply about making it difficult for those who want to make it difficult for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134734	Denmark is a community governed by law. It is absolutely essential for a democracy to be based on the rule of law and not on who you like one day and who you like the next day. That is why it is the law that must be applied when you want to judge people when you want to abolish their right to assemble, and then they must have violated the law. The day when we can lift a burden of proof, the day when we can, with the legislation in hand, hold the Grimhøjenvironment to account for the expressions they make, because the attitudes they express, the day when they violate our basic principles in Danish society, I think we should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134816	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen again, huh? Then it's the third time). No, that's the third time it can't be done, but he'd had the nerve to speak. Sir. Peter Skaarup, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134830	Thank you. I think the Minister for Justice said something right here in his introduction, namely the following, and I quote: we will do everything we can to combat extremists within the framework of the Constitution. If I then say that more is needed here than what the Minister of Justice says, then it is because it is obviously not what I hear Mrs Trine Bramsen. You don't want to close a mosque that's so disgusting that it's contrary to the Constitution. That is what we are told today: you do not want to. What I could sometimes call for from the government is that there was action behind the fine words. How does Mrs Trine Bramsen imagine that the people should be able to trust a government that says some sensible things but does not really do anything about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114134929	We Social Democrats want to fight extremism and radicalisation by all means, but we do not want to override the Constitution; we do not want to introduce emergency law in Denmark to combat the totally unsavory attitudes expressed in this documentary on the Grimmøj environment. So the legislation we are introducing must be based on democratic principles; the actions we are taking must be based on democratic principles. I simply disagree with the statement that the government does not come up with concrete initiatives. I recommend that Mr. Peter Skaarup to read the government's action plan from September. And on Friday we are discussing one of the very concrete legislative initiatives designed to ensure that it becomes more difficult to belong to the radicalised environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135017	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135018	Mrs Trine Bramsen says that we must do this on the basis of democratic principles. Yes, and then my question to Mrs Trine Bramsen is: is the constitution undemocratic? Is it undemocratic when it is written in the Constitution that associations that act by violence or call for violence should be dissolved? Is it undemocratic? No, that is what our founding fathers wrote down at the time probably with good intentions that we should not, of course, allow associations that act by violence or call for violence. What is the President of the Grimhøjmosque doing? He hails suicide warriors; he salutes the Islamic State with which Denmark is at war. Is it even connected for Mrs Trine Bramsen and the Socialists here? No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135104	Now I have read the whole constitution, and it also says that we are based on the rule of law, that we are a community of law. It also means, therefore, that it is with the legislation in hand that people can be judged for making illegal utterances. That is what we Social Democrats are holding onto. It's not what we think one day or the other day, and who we like or who we don't like. It is the law that is the starting point for who we can prohibit from uniting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135134	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135136	Unfortunately, it is very symptomatic of the government when they speak terrorist acts, when they speak the fight against extreme forces, that they use a lot of fine words and turn up the rhetoric, but when you go in and look at what is of real content, there is nothing at all. For the crux of the matter it is also if you define it from the basic law that when you contribute to the use of violence against Danish society, you can do so without you directly contributing to the violence. So it is very relevant that this is being investigated, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur what the government has actually done to combat extremism in the environment around the Grimhøjmoskeen. There have been some peaceful dialogue meetings with the East Jutland Police and then PET is doing its usual work, but nothing concrete has been done other than that the Minister of Justice and the rapporteur have turned the rhetoric upside down. We then offer an alternative and say: let us check whether they cannot be banned by law. And the government does nothing, absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135234	First of all, I find it very interesting that since November Conservatives have changed their position on the closure of the Grimhøjmosque. In November Conservatives stood up and supported the fact that the Grimhøjmosque should not be closed at all because it would be contrary to the Constitution. So I look forward, in the rapporteur's speech, to having an answer as to why we have changed our position. Having said that, I would also like Conservatives to keep in mind what developments have taken place in this area: how the police, using completely new methods, have slowed down the exits that have been seen, among other things. young people who have gone to Syria. The East Jutland model practised by East Jutland Police is about more than just conversations. It is precisely about preventing young people from becoming part of this environment; not getting more people into the mosque, but getting more people out of the mosque so that they become part of the democratic society. And then it is about the tough initiatives in which we are constantly threatening to prosecute those who are criminals against our law and, after all, cases have been brought.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135338	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135339	I do not think the rapporteur needs to lecture me on what the police are doing in the fight against terrorism. What East Jutland Police is doing is calling the people who go to Syria and fight against Danish interests as well, Syrian volunteers and have some dialogue meetings with them, and of course there are other actions, I know from my previous job too, from PET's side. But the government doesn't do anything. Yes, a Minister for Justice is being put at risk with harsh rhetoric, as is the rapporteur here, but here there is an opportunity to close an environment around a mosque that calls for violence, which calls for the support of the IS, and which calls for going to Syria and fighting against democratic forces, for example. Danish interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135422	I would like to say that I find it rather strange that the rapporteur is asking me a question about what the government is doing and when I reply, the rapporteur comments that I should not lecture him about what the police are doing. It's an exotic form of debate. But it is not true that the government has not taken any initiatives. There is a whole action plan which both provides the police with resources and powers and introduces completely new tools. As I talked about in my rapporteur's speech, all this is just a social media focus, after all, a strategy for itself. In addition, the legislation we will hopefully adopt on Friday when the proposals are discussed in this Chamber. So I simply do not agree that the government does not have a massive focus on this and comes up with very concrete initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135510	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135524	Thank you for the floor, President. I will be relatively brief, as I agree mainly with the Socialist rapporteur who was just ahead of me. We Radicals strongly reject the positions expressed by those associated with the Grimhøjmoskeen. We also believe it is important that the police continue to have a strong focus on the people around the Grimhøjmoskeen, and I also believe that the police are constantly considering whether to prosecute individuals for their statements. In relation to the closure of the association behind the Grimhøjmosque in general, I think we should be very careful to make such assessments. We must remember that we are the legislative power. Whether or not an association should be closed is a legal assessment, not a political judgement. It is a cornerstone of our democracy. That is why we can support the Minister for Justice, who has so far been very objective when it comes to this issue. Public prosecutor's investigations are only to be initiated if we have a very secure basis. If an association is to be closed, it is important that one is extremely sure that it is in accordance with the constitution, both for democratic reasons • we are, after all, a community of law • but also because we risked to end up in a situation where the Grimmøjmosque won a court case against the state, which I would feel so bad about. In fact, I think we would all be extremely sorry about this kind of blue stamp. That is why we can ask ourselves whether a closure would be of any use at all. Is it in the structures of association that extremist attitudes live? I don't think so. I think they live in the extremists themselves. Would a new association be formed immediately thereafter? Probably. Would it take an incredibly long time to carry out such a trial? Probably too. After all, it is in the extremists themselves that attitudes are alive, and that is why we must do a lot to avoid recruitment to extremist environments. That is why, in cooperation with many parties here in the Danish Parliament, we have also taken initiatives on a regular basis, most recently with our new action plan. That is why, from a radical point of view, we can support the proposal for adoption presented by Mrs Trine Bramsen just now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135749	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135751	We have not really heard from the Radical Left yesterday or today from the Minister for Justice's announcement of treason. Does the Radical Left support the fact that cases are now being opened against people who have committed treason against Denmark, for example? Syrian warriors?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135807	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135808	Now I do not know how much this has to do with the subject of the debate, which concerns the closure of the Grimhøjmoskeen, in other words with regard to a specific public prosecutor's inquiry, etc., but we can in fact support the fact that we are going to have this area examined more quickly. Well, we've already started an investigation. We can support the fact that it is being examined more quickly and then we will take a position accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135834	Sir. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135835	Does the Radical Left, like the Prime Minister, believe that they, such as the United States, are in a position to do so? fight against Danish soldiers and others, are traitors and can be punished by the traitors in the penal code?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135847	It quickly becomes such an issue, which is both about legal interpretations of paragraphs and what you feel a traitor is purely intuitive. I have to say that I think it is very sensible for us to have it examined and we can support the fact that it is being done more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135912	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114135925	Thank you. And from this point of view I would also like to thank you for having the debate. That also means, when we have the debate so soon after the bestial assassinations in Paris, that I will at least have to take the background music, which is above this debate, into account in an introduction. The terrorist attack, which was an attack on freedom of expression, but indeed was also an attack on a religious minority in Paris, is so disgusting. Fortunately, there has been an amazing will, too, I think, far along the way in this country to say: we distance ourselves from this, and we are also putting it on the nursery as something we see as a clear deterioration of the situation. It then plays along with the other background music that we have for this debate, and it has two elements. One element is that yesterday Europol announced that the risk of terrorism in Europe was greatly increased, largely because of people coming back from Iraq and Syria as volunteers on the IS. And the second element is the statement that came from the Center for Terror Analysis in this country on 2 December; moreover, there was an interesting and important part of the statement which pointed out that there have always been some who went down there, but the speed with which some are coming is greatly increasing, and that is a warning sign. That is why I would like to say that when we are going to discuss the Grimhøjmosque in that rather broad context in which I think we have to take it, there is no discussion in us that we must do more; we must do everything we can to seize the people, the environments and the basis that can create such an extreme radicalisation of citizens in our society. So it is not really a discussion about whether more needs to be done. And I actually think that this debate, at least for the vast majority of the parties, has been marked by the fact that we must, of course, do so. Then comes the discussion that is related to the Grimhøjmoskeen. Here the SF has asked the Minister to make a thorough statement in order to move one step further towards whether we can do something more here too. And I also think it should be noted, as others have also said, that it is, after all, also an important thing that Aarhus Police tells us that they have been successful. We also need to take it with us, while not using it as an argument for doing nothing more. We are counting on the development of PET's work to the maximum and to the maximum and to the maximum and to the maximum. And I really do not think it is correct that the proposal for adoption on which the SF is co-sponsors is just talk, precisely because it focuses on the fact that this is a long, cool move and that there needs to be a special focus on the Grimhøjmoskeen. Because it has provoked me and all of us, all of us who are democrats, that there is an imam saying in our open face that he does not care about democracy, that he supports a caliphate, a dictatorship. And we also know that some of the people who have frequented his mosque have gone down and joined the IS. It is strong, highly provocative, but it should not make us shy away from following the rules and understanding that we must also listen to the legal basis on which this country is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140413	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140416	I am rather surprised that the SF was not in the proposal for adoption together with the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. For I have recently had the pleasure of participating in a television broadcast in which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the SF was also present, and there she said that she agreed with the view that it should be examined whether it is possible to ban the Grimhøjmoskeen, even if they have done something criminal, either by calling for terrorism or by contributing to it financially, but she is involved in the campaign in agreement with the need to check whether it is possible to close the mosque. Is it a view SF has, or is it a view SF doesn't have? I do not think that is quite clear, Mr President. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140509-2	In fact, I think I said clearly that we have asked the Minister to explain what has been done in relation to the Grimhøjmosque and what more can be done, and it is all about proving crime and whether there is any proof that there is the association that we are counting on there, in connection with the Grimhøjmosque. That is the way it has been followed up. Moreover, I have here the quote from my President in which she says: 'I would ask the Minister for Justice to make a statement, because we cannot just ban the mosque, nor can we ban bikers or Hizb ut-Tahir. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140601	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140602	I quite agree that we cannot simply ban the mosque. It would never occur to us to come up with such a proposal. After all, we have come up with a proposal to carry out a public prosecutor's investigation, and it is, in fact, the serious approach in a community governed by the law that it is the Attorney General who is investigating it, instead of being able to ask a few questions to the Minister of Justice and then each one of us snoops up. So what I am just appealing to is that you really take it in the proper way that you have done it in the past in relation to similar cases. And that's what I'm wondering, what the SF really wants. I think it seems like you want to do both at once.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140644	I do not know how the questioner can get it out of it. The fact is that I have said that we are actually going a step further in the sense that we want an explanation of this. I therefore agree with the rapporteur of the Left that it would in many ways be a blow to the air to do what the author proposes. What we need to do is to use all the powers we can to obtain evidence against the suspects and then to strengthen the intelligence system. And I have also said what the SF President has said in this matter, which is in print.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140724	Well, then, sir. Martin Henriksen a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140729	Thank you. So, I am also one of those who think it is a little unclear what the Socialist People's Party thinks. I can almost hear that, like others in this debate, they mean several things at once. If it is that the SF has asked the Minister of Justice to investigate the situation around the Grimmhøjmoskeen etc. and examine what is going on and examine whether they are doing anything criminal, why can we not really support a proposal for adoption asking the Attorney General to check whether it can be banned? I don't understand. What exactly does the Socialist People's Party want to study at the Grimhøjmosque? That's one part of it. The second part of this is: Will SF, if the possibility arises, help to close the mosque and the association behind it? Then we can discuss when the possibility arises, but if the possibility arises, will you be involved in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140820-2	Well, I agree with the Minister of Justice on how this kind of thing is going on. You've got to get a basis for proof so you can start these processes. In fact, I think that the Minister for Justice gave a very thorough account of this, and I have also read some of the previous debates that have been about it here. Now I'm not the one who usually takes these debates, because that's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, but today it's me. But I have read the debates that have taken place before, and I think, in fact, the Minister for Justice has clearly explained that if there were a basis for that, I suppose you would do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140901	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140902	Yes, but I don't quite think that Mr. Steen Gade answers the question. Because I would like to know: if, according to the SF, the possibility is there, will the SF forbid the Grimhøjmosqueen and the association behind it? So we can disagree about what it takes and all that, but if the opportunity existed and everyone said that now was the opportunity there and that now we could go for it, and if the Justice Department said so, would the SF go for it yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140932-2	Well, if there is an assessment that we have evidence that is large enough, why should we not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140942	Sir. Peter Skaarup has also asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114140947	I have to say that I think that the rapporteur for the SF, Mr. Steen Gade, also has a little to assess the development that SF has been through, for it was once the case that SF was of the opinion that it could not be dealt with, and it would not be dealt with when we had a mosque like the Grimhøjmosque, but the reality has changed for SF, as I have seen in any case. Like others, I have also heard the chairman of the SF say quite clearly that we should examine these things and that we should check whether we could dissolve the mosque. It has also been my impression from the things I have seen the SF's legal rapporteur participate in that it has been the position. That's why I'm surprised that the SF here today has apparently changed its mind again and won't help investigating this mosque any closer. The fact is that we could, of course, disband the Grimmøjmosqueen, and the Danish People's Party wants to propose this, but what we are proposing today is that we investigate
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141058	Now I understand that the questioner stands and philosophers a little over what he remembers SF has meant about different things. The questioner can do that. In fact, I think it is very clear. We have asked for clarification as to whether there is more to say and do in relation to the Grimhøjmosque than what has been done. We have asked questions about this. It's not that I'm gonna blam others now, but I guess we've actually done more than blow a blow in the air, which I think maybe somebody else is appealing a little to be accused of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141135	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141138	I think, to put it mildly, that the SF's rapporteur does not talk about it. I would like to ask the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Steen Gade, directly: What does it take to dissolve an association for SF to have examined whether an association should be dissolved? Should we do much more than pay tribute to suicide bombers, fight for the Islamic State, want to abolish democracy? Isn't that really enough? How far are we going to go before the SF will use the paragraph of the Constitution on this, which says, after all, that if you encourage or act by violence, you have to dissolve as a union?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141220	There must, of course, be a basis for thinking that you can win that case in the courts. It is, of course, a community of law that we live in, and that is what we are defending, at the same time as it is the point that we believe that we must do everything, both with soft methods and with hard methods, to stem radicalisation and extremism.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141248	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141255	As recently as 18 December, Parliament rejected with all votes against the votes of the Danish People's Party the Liberal Alliance's motion for a resolution B 12 on the dissolution of the Grimhøjmoskeen. So it is not because we have not quite, quite recently, discussed exactly this question which has been asked today. My acquaintance, and I've been asking around a little, because you can be wrong, no new crucial information has come out about the work of the Grimhøjmoskeen since then. There's no information that... can it be that I have 18 seconds left? President No, 3 minutes and 18 seconds! ) Thank you. The President The machine cannot say 4 minutes! ) Well! I'm sorry! So there is no new information that we have today and that we did not have on 18 December when we voted on the resolution. There is nothing in connection with the terrible events in Paris, which should be related to the Grimhøjmosque or otherwise have influence which relates to the query debate that has been called for today. Nevertheless, it seems as if it is the events that have led us to stand here in this month, in January, and discuss the Grimm Mosque, just as we discussed it in previous months. In addition, an urgent request has been called for. I find it difficult to see that it is connected, and that is why I have spent some time here just talking about the process. Of course, it is important that we in the Folketing can call urgent questions, and that is why we from the Enhedslisten have not opposed this call either. I just think that another time you have to think about what kind of resources you are using. For a reason, it is now called an urgent question. Enhedslisten hasn't changed his mind on this issue. Already when we discussed the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, we referred to a letter that the East Jutland Police wrote to the Minister for Social Affairs in February 2014 and that refers to a closure as inappropriate. I quote from the letter and it says that closing the mosque in response to the challenges we face with regard to the Syrian volunteers would be inappropriate. And reference is made to the police's dialogue with the board and others in the circle around the mosque as a prerequisite for limiting the number of Syrian warriors. The head of the Østjyllands Police Crime Prevention Department has also developed this in the Jutland-Posten, and I quote again: "We have a very good dialogue, we have meetings, and we are in good dialogue with both the board and the young people," he says. ▪ The City of Aarhus, who is working closely with East Jutland Police to stop the Syrian warriors, has also said that there is a dialogue that is going on very well, that in the mosque you also have an interest in preventing young people from going to Syria. I quote from Kristeligt Dagblad: "Our impression is that the mosque is a meeting place for all possible directions. Their way of practicing faith is as varied as that of Christians... I think it is very important that we listen to these statements in this case, because the closure of a mosque, even if it is not unconstitutional, is likely to destroy that dialogue. Then there is the discussion about the constitution itself, and there the Ministry of Justice has been very clear in some of their answers. In other words, if a member or a president or a spokesman for an association commits some unlawful acts, it is not in itself enough to blame the association. It is only if the association as such, as a normal part of the association's activities, commits unlawful acts, and this is very well in line with a general principle that we have in Denmark, that, firstly, we have freedom of association, secondly, we have an individual responsibility for our actions and that we are punished individually, not collectively, if we violate the criminal law. We agree with the Ministry of Justice that this is the state of law and should be the state of law. Finally, I would like to say that we have a long tradition in Denmark that extreme positions are something we fight with words, discussion and democracy, and a reduction in freedom of association and freedom of expression does not make extreme opinions disappear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141748	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114141756	The free world faces a threat from Islamism. Islamism is an ideology which, with violence, war and terror, is trying to establish a totalitarian system throughout the world. This reminds it in its being of fascism, Nazism and Communism. We must fight Islamism. We want to do so in the Liberal Alliance, and we want to do so on the basis of the rule of law and in defence of Western values of freedom. The time is not to roll back Western values, the time is to drive them forward. There are plenty of things we can do to combat Islamism: we could be better at punishing those who threaten or intimidate people who want to use their freedom of expression; we could be better at specifically monitoring those who plan to commit terrorism; we could drop special rules on residence permits for religious preachers; the government could on Friday, when we deal with L 99, look at the bourgeois proposal on entry bans instead of exit bans; and we could stop sheltering foreigners who have the idea that they will abolish our popular rule and work on it. Today we are discussing another proposal that is in the bouquet, because we have the discussion about whether we can close the Grimhøjmosque in Århus. Together with the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, with the support of the Left, we understand the rapporteur's point of view and we are pleased to see that it is proposed to conduct a public prosecutor's inquiry into whether it is possible to close the Grimhøjmoskeen. I would just like to say to Mrs Pernille Skipper that this is not the same thing as the motion for a resolution. B 12, if you have read it, and that may be the explanation for the surprise of Mrs Pernille Skipper about why it is that the parties vote differently for the two things. To the Minister for Justice, I have to say that in my argument, in order to reject it, there was a tendency for procurator knapsacks. I would like to say two things on this occasion. One is in relation to whether there might be an association and the whole question. Back in the 2004 and 2008 Public Prosecutor's Surveys on a possible ban on Hizb ut-Tahrir, it is made clear that the concept of association must be understood quite far-reachingly, as if there is just a certain community that is actually literal. There does not need to be a real association, it is stated in both studies concerning a possible ban on Hizb ut-Tahir. The second point is that it is said that it is apparently first necessary to find out in the Ministry of Justice, i.e. whether there is a basis for it. And that is where I think things are completely mixed up, because what we are asking for is that the Attorney General does just that, and that was also the Justice Department's own justification back in 2003 when the first study was carried out in relation to Hizb ut-Tahrir. So I think it is we who stand on the tradition that the Ministry of Justice itself has been going on in the past, while the Minister has left it. I have mentioned a number of concrete proposals on what can be done to combat Islamism. I have mentioned that we would like to participate in a public prosecutor's investigation as to whether a ban can be imposed on the Grimhøjmosque. I can count on the fact that the latter will hardly be implemented today, but that does not mean we have to wait. We must go after all the individuals associated with that environment, and we must do so much more effectively than the government is proposing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114142228	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114142238	It is quite incredible to see and hear that the leadership in the Grimmøjmosque has a very anti-democratic attitude and in various interviews directly disavows our Danish democracy and thus our constitution. When you have so much against all of the Danish and especially our freedoms and the basic law it can be wondering what the people in question are doing in Denmark. If you have such an undemocratic attitude, perhaps you should find another place in the world to live and live. It must and must also be a prerequisite for living in Denmark, regardless of religion, to respect laws and rules, not least our constitution. So if you don't want to, you have to find another place to live and live. We can also note from various articles that 22 out of 27 young people from East Jutland, who have gone into so-called holy war, had their daily activity in the mosque. The mosque is thus in some way a gathering place for radicalized people, or it is just getting into the mosque that young people become radicalised and extremist. That is the fact that the Board of Directors of the Grimhøjmosque will not deal with it at all when you ask them, and they turn it to the fact that, as a management, you have no responsibility. And it's all wrong. For the management of the mosque is very much responsible for what is happening in their mosque, and they should at least be concerned. But the prerequisite for taking responsibility for this is, of course, that you respect the laws and regulations that are in Denmark, and that is exactly what management does not do. It must and must be a requirement that you as a religion respect the Danish laws and regulations, no matter what else you believe in. Unfortunately, it is just the opposite in the mosque at Grimhøjvej in Brabrand. The leadership and various imams that have come into the mosque have such a strong hatred for our democracy and our way of life that they do not hold back from expressing it publicly. With the approval of the management, there is a very negative impact on especially the young people who come to the mosque, and that is therefore totally unacceptable. After all, evil and hatred must be combated, no matter where it takes place, and we have a joint responsibility to ensure this if we want to preserve Denmark as a peaceful and democratic country. We must therefore do everything possible to prevent the radicalisation of young people in the mosque, and it must of course also be quite clear that the police are doing what is possible to prosecute them. It is true that the building as such is not the problem and it is a derailment of the debate to keep talking about those bricks. Because it is the people who are in the leadership and the imams and others who come to the mosque that are the problem, because they whip up a hatred in the young. And that's the problem. But it may well be necessary to remove the mosque completely in order to at least make an example of what is possible in a free and democratic country. And that is why we are co-sponsors of the motion for a resolution here and will be involved in examining whether it is possible to close the mosque. But of course we are also aware that the closure of the mosque does not in itself eliminate the problems of the negative forces. It is therefore also important that the police and other authorities continue their preventive and preventive work in the area, and it is important that the police pay particular attention to the possibility of prosecuting those who want only evil and negative and who brainwash young people into so-called holy war. It must be possible to prosecute the persons concerned in order to contribute to criminal offences, and if that is not the case, then we call on the government to act instead of just talking so that something happens soon in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114142702	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114142715	First of all, thank you for a good debate on something that I think involves a great many people and with good reason. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent contribution, which shows something about the dilemmas and challenges that exist in a case that seems so obvious and so obvious when, for good reason, we all distance ourselves from the abominable positions expressed about the Grimhøjmosque. Then I would like to start by saying that the problems of radicalisation that we see in Denmark are real. There is our response must be democratic, realistic and effective. We must not lose our heads and fall into the trap of repealing Danish legislation and introducing emergency law or symbolism policy. The thoughts and the dark undemocratic forces call for our strong democratic traditions and responses. We must act within the framework of our constitution. We are concerned on the part of the government to hold people and their actions accountable. All the more important, then, is that our authorities are on the task and follow the undemocratic forces closely. I said earlier in my introduction to the debate here that, like many others, I am tempted to put an end to the attitudes and the people behind them. But I would also like to say that we must not lose our heads. I think that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, like others, said very well in the Chair before: it must be about doing everything we can to hold those concerned to account. And when it comes to some of the statements we hear from individuals around the Grimmhøjmoskeen and any recruitments, for example for the conflict in Syria and Iraq, my message is also very clear that this is primarily and ultimately a task for the police intelligence service. It is our intelligence service that must follow, monitor, know what is being said, what is being planned, what is happening. It's our strongest defense. I would also like to say that the next thing I am concerned about, as far as the so-called Syrian warriors are concerned, is to prevent more people from going there. When we want to prevent young Danes as well as residents from travelling to the conflict in the Middle East, it is, of course, first and foremost because we do not want Danes to contribute to one of the worst organisations seen in recent times: Islamic State, which, with their inhumane, inhumane methods, is a threat to the whole of humanity, but it is also because the people in question can, of course, pose a huge security risk if they return to our society. The third thing I want to say is that we must use all our efforts to counter the extremism and radicalisation of our societies. We in the government have proposed a comprehensive anti-radicalisation plan. It is a little difficult to get the Danish Parliament's final support for its content. I hope that those negotiations will soon be able to proceed so much that we can also have some dots set. Because I have no doubt that when it comes to countering the threat of terror and radicalisation, it is quite tough weapons that must be used. I am not hiding the fact that the fact that I, as Minister of Justice, am calling for the authorities to be able to deprive people of the care of the assumption of an expected exit to Syria is a rather violent step. On the other hand, I have no doubt that this is necessary if we are to prevent the risks involved, but it cannot stand alone. That is why we also need to be able to work more structured, continuously and wider to counter the undemocratic forces that do not want Denmark or, for that matter, humanity well. Let me just finish off with a few words for the discussion that has also been raised today, namely the whole issue of treason. In fact, I think it can be expressed quite clearly. After all, it is a fundamental grotesque and absurd situation that we, as a country, as a society and as a community, choose to send Danish soldiers at the invitation of the Iraqi Government to deal with the problems of the Islamic State, soldiers at risk of sacrificing their lives for democracy and peace, and that they should then perhaps experience that there are other Danish people travelling out as so-called holy warriors and either in direct shooting down or by helping the enemy undermine the ability of the Danish forces to act. In my view, this is treason, and that is what I have said on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143222	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments. Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143227	At the end of the Minister's speech, one would like to say that now the Minister simply has to control himself. So, the minister says she has difficulty getting the Folketing's support for the government's anti-radicalisation package. It has emerged once this autumn, after virtually all the other parties, at least on the bourgeois side, have shouted and shouted that the government should take initiatives. We also have a negotiating process in the Ministry of Justice, which the Minister of Justice for the Table End has not yet completed. So it is in fact the Minister's own problem that there is not going to be any progress in that discussion between the parties of the Folketing. The reason why we, among other things, are... has wanted to discuss with the government is that we think that package is too little. That is why I have to ask the Minister now: will the Minister follow up the Prime Minister's comments from the other day, when the Prime Minister says that she is open to all proposals, including making the sole residence in the terrorist zones in Syria and Iraq illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143340	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143341	But why don't we just agree on that action plan? After all, there is nothing at all to prevent us, you or all of us, from putting further initiatives together. Now we have to begin to deal first with the proposal from us in the government that we should be able to deprive any Syrians of the passport. Let us now adopt it. The same applies to the anti-radicalisation plan. It has been negotiated for an incredibly long time by the pool parties, first under the auspices of the Ministry of Social Affairs, subsequently in the Ministry of Justice. I understand that interest is huge; there are questions to be asked, answers to be given, but we could just get it agreed, and then there is nothing to prevent us from taking further initiatives. On the question of whether we should consider imposing a ban on going to Syria at all, I would say what I think the Prime Minister has said is extremely wise, namely that we are not in a situation where there is no basis for saying no to good ideas. That is why we would very much like to see whether this can be a way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143437	Thank you. Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143439	This seems completely absurd, I would say to the Minister for Justice. We have had two meetings with the Minister of Justice, where the blue parties have presented the government with the proposal that it should be illegal to stay in terrorist zones in Syria and Iraq, unless prior authorisation has been granted by the authorities. It is therefore the perfect framework to agree on it. So I would just like to ask the Minister: will the Minister take the initiative to convene the next meeting of that circle so that we can discuss the government's anti-radicalism plan and also get rid of what the bourgeois parties would like and which I can now hear that the Minister of Justice would also like, namely to have a stay in Syria and Iraq illegally? Is this a process in which the Minister will ship himself into?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143524	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143526	Well, it is obvious that no matter how serious an issue we have to deal with in the Danish Parliament, it is a matter of process. I mean, we have put forward an anti-radical plan. I would suggest that we get it agreed and adopted. We've tabled a bill to take the passport from Syrian warriors. I would urge the Danish Parliament to vote through this. Then new ideas have emerged, which I have not rejected at any time. Because I am not in a situation where, as the country's Minister of Justice, I can be absolutely sure of what kind of tools we need to use with a problem that is so serious and, incidentally, relatively new. So my call will then be clear: let us get the concrete proposals on the table adopted so that we can make them work, and then let us finally discuss further on the basis of whether further initiatives are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143614	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143618	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. I shall then stick to what is actually also the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, and also to what the government parties' proposals for adoption are all about, namely that individuals calling for violence or terrorism should be held accountable. I would like to give you an example of a place where I believe the Minister of Justice is failing. In July a facebook group called Death to the Jews was unveiled. 28 Jews, of whom I know many, sent reports to the police about this page. You know exactly what kind of man he lives in, by the way, Hvidovre who's behind the group. It was July. Now six months have passed and there is nothing it is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to ensure that this kind of thing is, of course, dealt with immediately when such serious threats are made. I don't know where such a case goes. My wife is one of the reviewers who has moved for an answer and has a talk for a gossip. It's the Attorney General's responsibility. Do you want to get to grips with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143726	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143727	But the answer to that question is quite simple, namely that it is the prosecution, it is the police, it is the responsibility of the authorities and it is the responsibility of the authorities to bring any perpetrators to account for any acts that may be committed. And that also applies, of course, if there are violations or other things that are punishable in terms of words. And that is why, of course, in this case, as in everyone else, the cases that need to be dealt with must be started, and that is an authority's responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143759	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143801	I still believe that a phone call from the Minister of Justice to the Hvidovre police will have some effect. I mean that. In the Justice Minister's own constituency, however, it would be quite good to start doing so shortly before the elections. It is obscene that a facebook group with a named person can call for death on the Jews and then go laughing around in Hvidovre. That's the kind of thing people don't understand. That is why there are such proposals from people that now it has to be closed down, and now we have to do it. For people do not understand it in a case that is so damning easy, someone who speaks of death to the Jews must, of course, be prosecuted and punished. That is what the Danish people find difficult to understand. And then I apologize for my comment about the constituency it was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143847	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143848	Well, that remark is objectively correct, so it doesn't matter. After all, we should not have a community based on the fact that we should be married to a member of parliament who should be able to tell the Minister for Justice that the Minister for Justice must call a police force in order for there to be a case running properly. No matter who you are, no matter where you are in the country, no matter what your background is, it must of course be the case that the police and prosecutors take seriously the criminal acts, crimes that may take place. And it goes without saying that in all respects it is an authority's responsibility to bring the cases before the courts to be brought.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143925	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114143928	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Martin Geertsen in that it is therefore absurd to listen to the Minister for Justice. We could have concluded and closed an agreement on further action against, for example. Syrian warriors a long time ago... long ago. So there are parties that have shouted and screamed at it; it is the government that has sat on its hands. So if the government wants to get started, the government can just get started. There have been many Justice Ministers before Justice Minister Mette Frederiksen, and one of them could have had a nice idea at some point, but it's heavy. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Following on from what Mr. Søren Espersen was referring to and, in relation to this inquiry debate, it has emerged from the daily press that there has not even been a case that has not even begun an investigation into the imam of the Grimmøjmosqueen, which has called for the killing of Jews. That's crazy. If that's true, it's crazy. Well, there are parts of the system where I'm almost afraid they've fallen asleep. And in the end, it's the Justice Minister's responsibility. Then you have to shake it up, then there has to be clear instructions that you have to be up on the beat, you have to be after them, too, so that you can collect evidence for a possible ban on, for example. The ugly mosque. It's the Justice Minister's responsibility to get it going.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144043	My clear instructions are the one I have just said: it goes without saying that every form of criminal activity in Denmark must be properly dealt with by the authorities concerned, and it does not matter what the nature and form of criminal activity may be. I assume, of course, that all the responsible authorities are painfully aware of the problems we have with radicalisation in Denmark. It is also a dialogue I have with the authorities concerned, of course. This is not just about prosecution, which is important if criminal acts have been committed; it is also, of course, about countering the indoctrination and propaganda machine that we can see on social media, for example. There are statements, if they are punishable, it is extremely important to accommodate and handle correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144133	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144135	I understand that an assessment has been made in relation to the question debate in the Ministry of Justice, and one is almost tempted to ask: who has made that assessment? But I just can't understand it. Because I'm also listening a little bit to the Attorney General that if you could close the Grimhøjmosque, you would. It was also included in the preliminary speech made by the Minister for Justice, and I can also see that it is reproduced in several media that the Minister is tempted to close the Grimhøjmoskeen. Is it to be understood that if the Minister could, the Minister would do so? Is that how it's supposed to be? And if that is to be understood, why on earth wouldn't the Minister of Justice investigate if you can? Because if the Minister of Justice wants to, let's start by checking if you can. We believe that we can, and there may be many different assessments of that, but let us look into it, Minister of Justice. Because if the Minister of Justice agrees that it must be closed if one can, then the next logical step is to examine the matter further.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144227	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144228	However, it is a fundamental principle that the prosecution in Denmark should not conduct criminal proceedings in the courts if it is considered that this could not lead to a conviction. That principle is important to hold on to. I also have to say that when I said before that I am tempted, like others, it is of course because, like many others here in the debate today, I actually all take a very, very strong stand against the attitudes and phrases that are there. I actually think most people feel that they are asking: why should there be such a place in Denmark where you both recruit and express yourself in such a way? But from there and then to go where the Danish People's Party wants, it is simply too far. It is also important in what may be tempted of, not to lose your head. And there is no basis for banning the mosque at Grimhøjvej for a number of reasons, and so it is still the professional assessment that there is no basis for, it can be said, to do the study that the Danish People's Party is now asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144325	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144329	Thank you. There's nothing wrong with the minister's rhetoric. It is actually quite right, but I think it is rather difficult to test whether this rhetoric is reflected in the actions of the Minister. I have to ask the Minister for Justice whether it is not true that the Left, on behalf of the other bourgeois parties, presented our proposal at a meeting at the beginning of December. We even did so in writing because the Minister wanted it in writing. It was our proposal that entry be granted in order to enter Syria and that we would then be able to easily lift the burden of proof that goes with it. I just have to ask the Minister why the Minister has not acted on it if the Minister, together with the Prime Minister, is open to that proposal. Then why hasn't anything happened? If the Minister and it may be an offer here today • say that we want to do that and we put it into the package that the government has made, yes, then we vote in favour. And then the minister can go to his fellow minister, Mr. Manu Sareen, and then the minister in question can get 60 million. kr. for cognitive therapy, that's fine, because that's what lies in large parts of the government's anti-radicalism plan. That is why we have questioned it. It's the means for the wrong things. But if the Minister can say here today that we are in favour of the proposal by the Left, which was presented at the beginning of December, then we are in favour. So let us vote through it in the Parliamentary Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144445	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144446	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen, it is true that the Left rapporteur now claims that most of the 60 million. kr. Should go to cognitive therapy? Really? No, of course not. I couldn't dream, as the country's Minister of Justice, of asking anyone to set aside $60 million. kr. au cognitive therapy. Frankly, what we are discussing is anti-radicalism. What we say on the part of the government is that just as much hastily we need to be on legislation to prevent people from leaving and to create a better basis for prosecuting those concerned, just as busy as we need to be on preventing it from happening at all. We can see that preventive action also has an effect. Police Intelligence, in cooperation with other authorities, has succeeded in working against the departure of some. That's a good thing. Does this mean that a lot of soft and social initiatives must be adopted? No, not when it comes to anti-radicalization. There is no room for naiveness in this area, but there is no room in my view for not going for the tools that are the most effective. That is why, of course, we need prevention, just as, as the government proposes, we need to be able to take the passport from people if they want to leave, for example, Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144606	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lauritzen for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144612	The reason we've been discussing the anti-radical plan in a couple of meetings has been because the government wanted things that look like cognitive therapy. It has, of course, been the major issue of the Minister for Integration, and it can be found in consultation where the Minister has presented it. It is true that there are other things in the plan, but it is not the Radicals and the Minister for Integration or the Minister for Justice who said for that matter that this should be dealt with by PET. That is something we have demanded from the Left, so the Minister must acknowledge that. I would like the Minister to answer the question. If the Minister agrees to the Left's proposal, then we agree and then we can vote on it. Why does the Minister not agree to the proposal presented to her at the beginning of December? Then there is agreement on the anti-radicalism plan and on what we should do in relation to the Syrian warriors. The minister just has to say yes today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144700	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144702	But why take the entire plan hostage? That doesn't make any sense. Well, we're gonna deal with the bill first on Friday. Excuse me, it may be an exciting discussion for parliamentary politicians, but please take a look at the fact that it is a matter of finding solutions. On Friday, we will deal first with a legislative proposal which is that we should be able to take the passport from people who want to leave. Let us now get it adopted. Then we have proposed an anti-radical plan. You can disagree more or less, so let's get this straight. That should not prevent us from discussing the proposals of the Left too, but why take something hostage? We have put some concrete things on the table. I hope that we will soon be able to adopt them so that they can get to work. I would have liked to have prevented some of those who have left as Syrian warriors from leaving. That's why I'd like to get this bill through. Then the Prime Minister has announced that, and I think it is wise that when the Left has an idea of an actual entry ban, we would also like to investigate and discuss it. It's an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144753	Thank you. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144755	I am quite sure that all those who are watching this debate can see through the gap in the sharp rhetoric, because what is the action behind it? In other words, we are dealing with a mosque to which the Minister himself is rhetorically opposed, which celebrates IS, and which celebrates a Danish suicide bomber. East Jutland Police has themselves found that 22 out of 27 Syriens warriors from East Jutland come from the environment around the mosque, and yet the minister says that one will not investigate whether the mosque and the mosque's leadership can be abolished. I mean, it's the prerogative of a Minister of Justice to investigate those things, and yet you let it go and say it's not possible. This proposal for adoption is about one thing: to ensure that it is examined by the Attorney General whether the mosque can be shut down. And, of course, there is an opportunity. Because even if the fathers of the Constitution could not even imagine the situation we are in now, there is therefore a situation here where it is urged that some others use some violence against Danish society and our democracy. So there is a real possibility that we could see that the Attorney General reached the conclusion that one could close the Grimhøjmoskeen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144904	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114144906	What I have said is that at this stage the Ministry of Justice does not consider that there is a professional basis for asking the Attorney General to investigate the question of the dissolution of an association in connection with the Grimhøjmoskeen. This does not mean that that basis cannot be present at any other time, and then I have no problem at all, I would like to say, asking the Attorney-General to initiate the investigation • no problem at all. However, I find it difficult, as Minister of Justice, to ignore the fact that the assessment is that there is no professional basis for this. I would just remind you that studies have been initiated by former Ministers of Justice to remind us of this and that we have not been able to arrive at the result we really wanted to see. We have not yet succeeded in banning biker castles in Denmark, although it is clear to everyone that those inside the biker castles commit a lot of crime. Nor have we yet succeeded in disbanding Hizb ut-Tahrir, who also, in various contexts, expresses positions which must be said to be quite undemocratic and very, very far away from what Denmark we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145004	Thank you. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145005	When, for example, we... It was on that basis that we asked the Attorney General to investigate it, and that was, although there was a considerable scepticism about it in the Ministry of Justice, a considerable sceptical attitude, I can say calmly. But we chose to say, let's get these things checked out. And the big difference from the biker castles to, for example. The Grimhøjmosque is that here we are dealing with a leadership in the mosque, which is explicitly out to celebrate IS, the Syrian Warriors and Danish suicide bombers. Although it is clear in the constitution that violence must not be used, the rhetoric and the whole action in the mosque contribute to violence against Danish society. So there is therefore a basis for examining it, and I still do not understand why, when the Minister is so tough in his rhetoric that there is no content behind it and that the Minister does not get the Attorney General to investigate whether it is not possible to ban the association behind the Grimmøjmosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145100	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145101	In fact, it is quite simple: if you say something that is punishable, then of course you also have to be prosecuted for it. And it's about whether you talk like imam, or you talk in other contexts and have statements that can be said to be criminal. I would like to say quite quietly that what one should of course also have in mind is that if we ask the Attorney General to uncover this question and the Attorney General, according to the expectation that is at least in the Ministry of Justice, will return and say that there is no basis for breaking up a possible organisation and association around the Grimmhøjmoskeen, our possibilities will in fact be even less forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145141	Then that's the last question, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. I have to make it clear that time has to be kept to a great deal, because Mr. Martin Henriksen must also answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145149	I'll do my best. We live in a country where you can't close a biker castle and you can't close a mosque as an account for terrorists. You can close a nursery. There are really a lot of weird dilemmas in this country, but it seems that way. I think it is a pity that we have so much party politics in it, understood in that way that I think the Minister has trained the process that together we could have taken some initiatives. I think so. The negotiations to which reference has been made are procedural and, among other things, procedural. The truth is that if the Minister had taken that task on him, we would have been together this week, when we will be here again on Friday, on a number of proposals, because we just have that problem, I would say to the Minister that we cannot just expect a majority for our proposals, because we are in opposition. So it takes an outstretched hand if what we're saying is going to turn into something. That is why it is the Minister who is the only one who can block this happening and the only one who can do something actively to ensure that it happens. That is why this is a call to get out of the parish tomb and into real dialogue about what we should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145301	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145302	But I would say that I cannot be sure of having a majority in favour of the proposals I make on behalf of the government either. We are a minority government. We can see right now in the area of asylum that it is actually difficult, among other things. to get the Left Party to stab and confess. I would like to say again: there is no reason to take any initiatives as hostages. We have put forward some concrete initiatives. I think we should get them adopted and agreed so that they can get to work, and then it has to be said that it is an outstretched hand when the Prime Minister of the country announces to the leader of the opposition that good ideas are welcome and that we are happy to uncover and investigate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145341	Thank you. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145343	But that is just where we come to the question between words and action one more time. When you hear both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and others, it is as if anything can be done, everything can be discussed, they want to make agreements. As soon as we come over to long meetings of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and the Prime Minister's Office, yes, we must not come there, I understand from the Prime Minister, who cannot be invited to negotiations. If the Minister for Justice had wanted to do so, we would have had an overall solution now, as the bourgeois parties in the government agreed and as we could have celebrated today. It is the Minister who is the only one who is guilty of not having done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145421	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145423	Oh, my God, you can swing up in a debate like this! I would like to make my very quiet appeal not to take hostages in any context, nor this one. We need to be able to remove any future Syrian warriors from their passports so that they cannot leave. Parliament will have to deal first with that bill on Friday. I hope for support for its implementation. Then there is a comprehensive anti-radicalisation plan with a lot of different initiatives on which we have had a couple of meetings together, the questioner and myself and others. I think these meetings have been good. I also think that we have been accommodating in changing elements of the plan so that everyone can see themselves in the overall initiatives. It's basically just a matter of moving on now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145512	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145526	Thank you. I think that this debate actually shows very clearly what is wrong with the current system, because after this debate nothing is happening. After all, nothing is happening, and that is the problem. The problem is that we have again had a long debate in Parliament on a subject which is of concern to many Danes and which concerns many politicians. We can see that from the statements that appear in the press and then nothing happens. That is actually the problem. There is a need for the system to be shaken up, and if the politicians and the country's Minister of Justice are not to take the lead in this, who would do it? I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives for their support for our joint proposal for adoption. I would also like to thank the Left, who I understand would like to vote in favour of the proposal if it comes to the vote. This means, of course, in relation to the debate that took place before Christmas, which was, of course, about a ban on the Grimhøjmosque, where it is about examining the possibility of banning it, that it is about a number of parties moving and that we have come closer to a majority than we were before Christmas. We have come closer to a majority that is moving towards acting on this than we were before Christmas. I think that in itself is actually positive. Then I understand from the Minister of Justice that the Minister of Justice is tempted to close the Grimhøjmosque and the association behind it. There is a feeling that the Minister of Justice really wants to, but that something is holding back the Minister of Justice. And what then holds the Minister of Justice back is an assessment by the Minister of Justice's office. It is not really very healthy if it is the case that the country's Minister of Justice, who has the support of a majority in the Danish Parliament, is actually inclined to do something, but that there is something in the official work that is holding back the Minister of Justice. I don't think it's healthy in a popular government. Actually, I don't think so. One feels tempted, as the Minister of Justice sometimes feels tempted, to ask: can we not have a hearing here in the Folketing, where the lawyers in the office who have made this assessment can come and explain to us what they are considering? Why can we not have such a hearing? I think it would be obvious so that we politicians can discuss with those who seem to be taking decisions in the Ministry of Justice. That would be very good, and I also think it would be conducive to the democratic debate so that we can all be a little more enlightened. It has to be said that the rhetoric has been tough in recent times, even after the Danish Radio documentary on Grimmøjmoskeen, and somewhere it should also commit the parties in the Folketing. Words must therefore be followed by action, at least at some point. We can no longer just stand by and look at what is happening and make empty declarations of intent that we distance ourselves from it. I think 99 percent. of the Danish population disapproves of it. We have to do something about it. What we need to do is to decide politically to apply the Constitution. We must set the system in motion so that the system knows what the political level is expecting. And we're the only ones who can do it. But we do not use the Constitution, and that is a shame, because we have a really, really good constitution. And if the Minister of Justice really wanted to, there are ways to move on. A working group could be set up, both with people from the Ministry of Justice, but also with external experts, who were given the task of making suggestions as to how the constitution, for example, was based. can be interpreted in a new way. You could do that. You could also use the Attorney General and ask the Attorney General to investigate it, as some of us in this room have suggested. There are different options, there are different paths if you want to take initiatives politically. That is why I would like to conclude by thanking the parties which support the proposal for adoption, and then I hope that this debate will, after all, make it a step closer to taking more initiatives, both in relation to Syrians, traitors and so on, the withdrawal of citizenship, but also in the specific case, to ensure that associations that act by violence or call for violence are banned. They do not belong in Danish democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145940	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 15 January 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114145958	The first question is to the Minister for Education and Research, and this has been asked by Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150013	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the fact that the SDU is shutting down language teaching in Arabic, Chinese and Spanish?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150022	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150023	Thank you for the question on my position on the very question which the author of the question has read out. Training must lead to employment, and when you have spent a great many years in an education, the studies must also lead to a job. We probably agree on that. The dimensioning must then ensure a better correlation between the knowledge that young people today acquire in higher education and the skills that are subsequently sought in the labour market. That is the basics of what we have done. And that's why we put into education with significant and systematic overindulgence, but we do it in broad groups. The University of Southern Denmark has been asked to scale a total of 351 seats on the Master's degree programmes, which corresponds to 517 bachelor's places. It is the University of Southern Denmark which has the best knowledge about the organisation of individual educational provision, and therefore it is also the University of Southern Denmark which alone decides on which degree programmes the reported dimensioning can best be placed. For example: is the case that, unlike Arabic and Spanish, Chinese • has not been appointed at the University of Southern Denmark as an education with systematic unemployment in the dimensioning model, but here the University of Southern Denmark has chosen to use the extra places to free European studies. That is why the closure of Arab, Chinese and Spanish education is an expression of the priorities of the University of Southern Denmark, and I respect that. I have also been informed by the University of Southern Denmark that the closure of these language subjects will take place in dialogue with the University of Copenhagen to ensure that similar subjects are not closed there as well. So there is still a national supply of subjects and training which gives similar competences, and that is the case at several of the other universities in the country. It is up to the institutions to decide whether to place their dimensioning on individual training courses or to extend it to several, and the SDU has organized the dimensioning by taking account of local demand and the professional environments, and I therefore have no reason to believe that the closure has not just taken place without careful consideration of the professional, economic and regional consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150258	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150300	I would like to make it clear straight away that it is very important for the Left that there are educational opportunities throughout Denmark that there can and must be educational opportunities elsewhere than just in Copenhagen and Aarhus. However, in the dimensioning plan put forward by the Minister, I think it is clear to everyone that it hits regionally wrong. At SDU in Odense alone, as the Minister said, 403 study places at bachelor level and 312 candidate places are closed. Now that three small language subjects have been closed at SDU, it has gone exactly as the Left has repeatedly pointed out, namely that the Minister's dimensioning plan can hit regionally at a disadvantage and that small language subjects will suffer. The government's dimensioning plan uses a number of national unemployment rates to scale regionally without taking into account the equalness of the excess in all parts of Denmark. Last week the Minister signed new development contracts, including: with SDU. Here both parties promise to strengthen internationalisation. Does the Minister consider that the government's dimensioning model is working to strengthen internationalisation, since it has now resulted in the Chinese, Arabic and Spanish industries being closed down to the SDU? Or is it the case that the Minister's one hand does not really know what the other does?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150424	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150425	Regional considerations have actually been taken into account. Specific regional considerations have been taken into account at the reported dimensioning level, e.g.: in relation to the University of Southern Denmark's education offer in Sønderborg, and as I have just mentioned, it is therefore the assessment of the University of Southern Denmark and their decision alone, how the dimensioning has had to distribute itself. In other universities, other priorities have been set and the dimensioning has been set elsewhere. It is the university's own task, it is up to their professionalism, it is their responsibility. I take full responsibility for the fact that we have not wanted to train for unemployment and that we have therefore achieved this dimensioning. But within the model there is a very, very great flexibility. It has even been possible to place some of the dimensioning outside the reported groups if one has been able to argue for it. And that is what the University of Southern Denmark has done here by closing the course Chinese, which was not taken for dimensioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150526	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150527	The Minister did not, of course, reply to my question about strengthening internationalisation and the development contracts that the Minister has just signed last week. 'Cause that's one of them. The intention is that higher education should attract model wrestlers, and this is nothing new for the SDU at all. For, of course, various initiatives have been taken over the last few years, such as: Supports pattern breakers and ensures that they settle in at the university. Somewhere between 50 and 60%. As far as I understand, the Arab students at SDU have a Middle Eastern background, and a large part of them can probably be characterised as model breakers. In fact, this means that at SDU we are helping to solve integration challenges with the help of pattern breakers. But now, despite the fact that education in Arabic is a combined education in which Arabic is linked with corporate communication, with economics and with pedagogy, which is of great importance to the job opportunities that students have, which was what the Minister pointed out at the outset, and now I just have to ask again: does the Minister believe that she is living up to the intentions of the development contract just signed by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150635	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150637	Yes, development contracts go both ways. These are intentions that I have, objectives, clear objectives of more internationalisation, which the universities and other educational institutions have then committed themselves to fulfilling, including with a number of their own objectives. I think it remains at least as important that we get many international students in Danish higher education and many Danish students out into the world. It's one of the very best things you can do. However, no one is served with, even model breakers, it is even research-proven to have first broken the pattern of entering higher education and then then could not use his education in a job. Nobody's gonna do that. This is not about fewer people having to take an education, but about getting more seats and more into those programmes where there are also jobs at the other end.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150729	No, this is precisely about the fact that there are people out there who will have less opportunity to take an education, because the minister does not ensure that there are courses throughout Denmark. After all, what the Minister is giving priority to the model that has been presented here is not that there are educational opportunities throughout Denmark, but you are very much in favour of Copenhagen and Aarhus. The model here goes beyond, among other things. SDU and others. Now the Minister mentioned at the outset that one would like to ensure coherence. I think that was the word that the Minister used and the Minister also said that one would like to ensure the competences sought in the business world. That is one of the points of criticism that has been raised, among other things. from the Funen business community, i.e. the results of the dimensioning clearly show that there is a challenge in relation to Chinese, Spanish and Arabic. It is the world's largest, fourth largest and fifth largest languages, spoken together by over 1.8 billion people in the world, and now I would like to ask the Minister: how will the Minister ensure in the future that there are language experts who can ensure Denmark's growth and exports and Danish jobs, which can ensure that there are also in the future trained teachers to Spanish at high school level, and that at Funen, where they have the huge tourist effort on the Chinese, there are also Funen people who can meet the language requirements that the Chinese make for Funen as a tourist destination?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150850	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150851	But I have to repeat that it is the University of Southern Denmark that has chosen to place the dimensioning there. You could have done many other things, but I respect the professional decision. Because this is a question of • and it is in the interests of future internationalisation and of the competences we need, I agree with the questioner in • that there are also solid professional environments, so that you can keep a high standard and high quality. It is the universities themselves, in this case the SDU, who know best how to implement their decisions, and they have chosen to do so. For example: they close the course Chinese, although it is not selected for dimensioning at all. It must be because their professional considerations make it the most sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150932	Thank you. That concludes the question. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building by Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150943	Thank you. The question is: Why does the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building believe that Danish agriculture is too poor to produce environmentally friendly food, according to his chronicle in Berlingske on 20 November 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114150959	Thank you. The latest projections from the Danish Energy Agency indicate that agricultural greenhouse gas emissions are expected to be largely constant up to 2025, and that worries me. Although the projections are subject to very high uncertainty, a central estimate of the projections indicates that agricultural greenhouse gas emissions are falling by 1%. in 2020 compared to 2012. In this context, I would like to mention that I recognise that since 1990 agriculture has significantly reduced emissions. It is a fine result and it is an important step, but unfortunately it is not enough. My criticism is that it is the level of future emissions that must be reduced. This means that the actual amount of emissions must be reduced. Climate targets are focused both internationally and nationally on emission levels. This means that the climate target is typically calculated as a percentage reduction compared to the level in a given base year. The national target for 2020 has been calculated as 40% reduction compared to 1990 levels and the EU climate targets for 2020 and 2030 respectively have been constructed in the same way. Therefore, it is appropriate to reduce emissions in tonnes in the future. By reducing agricultural greenhouse gas emissions in the future, agriculture can contribute to achieving Denmark's national and international climate targets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151111	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151112	Thank you. That was a lot of numbers, and thank you for them. But I would like to stick a little to one question: when Danish agricultural food production is really in the world elite in terms of climate-friendly food production, and when the emissions of both methane and nitrous gas have been reduced by 23 per cent. Between 1990 and 2011, while ensuring that production has increased by 20%, how can the Minister actually turn agriculture into the culprit? Does the Minister really think that, for that matter, we have to almost kill all cows and pigs in order to achieve the climate targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151204	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151206	I assume, of course, that when we reach 2050 and we are done using fossil fuels, both cows and lively agriculture in Denmark are still gone, so I do not think that we should close agriculture to reach our climate targets. I also recognise that agriculture has reduced the climate impact per year. production unit, and it is an important thing that emissions have been decoupled from the growth of production. That is the forward-looking picture that worries me. I miss seeing the contribution of agriculture to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151235	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151236	I still think the Minister's criticism is out of place. In view of the fact that Danish food production is among the most climate-friendly in the whole world, I think that we might be able to get the Minister to confirm here too, namely that Danish agriculture is some of the best at producing climate-friendly • I must say that I find it strange that it is necessary, also in an article that the Minister has done, to make agriculture the sinner. This means that you can risk moving production to other countries and thus, overall, the climate is making the climate worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151322	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151324	I have to say that it is not just agriculture that I make responsible for the climate problem. I try to look at Denmark as a nation and at the overall emissions, of which the climate-related account for their share. But it is not agriculture that can do it for us alone; it is not the energy sector that can do it for us alone; it is not the transport sector that can do it for us alone. We have a single national target for all sectors. I would like everyone to contribute to the solution, including agriculture. As I said, I recognise that agriculture has reduced its emissions. I very much hope that this is something that can continue and I would like agriculture to take on that challenge and not only say that the most important thing is production per year. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151409	Thank you. Then we have a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Flemming Damgaard Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151413	Thank you. If you had to conclude on what the Minister is saying, it really means that everything will come to a standstill, that is to say that it is actually the case that just everything is still, there is no CO2 so I would like to ask whether the Minister is aware of how much CO2 because it is the case that if we all just stayed in our bed and did not move, then there was no CO2 Can the Minister not try to comment on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151449	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151450	Thank you very much. The goal of the green transition is to reduce our CO2 right now we emit more CO2 as a human being. emphasised by the United Nations Climate Panel in Copenhagen late last year. It is a fact of science that we need to relate to and adapt to. When we make a green transition, for example. In the energy sector, in the direction of wind turbines, the goal is not to stop using electricity, but to use electricity that has been produced properly. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. Making a green conversion of our district heating sector, the goal is not to have cold houses, but to have warm houses that are just heated in a way that does not harm the climate of the planet. It is the same with our agriculture. When I say that it could be beneficial for all of us if agriculture produces as climate-efficiently as possible, it is not because we do not have to eat in the future, it is because we have to produce in a way that does not burden our environment more than it can tolerate. That must also apply if you could have a CO2 but I have not made such a calculation for my own personal CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151557	The asker again, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151559	Since the Minister is out in this campaign against Danish agriculture, it is worth recalling that there is also some CO2 in agricultural plant production, which means that agriculture, through their plant production, actually contributes to achieving CO2 and does the Minister agree that increased nitrogen allocation will actually help to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, precisely because plant production has a CO2.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151652	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151653	Thank you very much. Agriculture has one of the keys to solving our problems with CO2 We see increasingly that we use biomass, i.e. agricultural products in our energy sector. I also hope that at some point we can get over there where, for example, we can get there. in Danish fields produce biodiesel for our cars. So I can easily see that agriculture can play a constructive role, and I can even say that agriculture is crucial to solving this challenge through the production of climate crops. With regard to the discussion that one can fertilize more and thus import less, I would say that it is simply not my resort I am not smart about it. But I can say that agriculture plays a crucial role in the production of energy crops in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151737	Thank you. And then it is the questioner again, Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151742	Thank you. I think we are moving on to something that could then be a little exciting to have examined, because as the Minister himself says, agriculture can help to find the key to achieving this objective. One might say that if one could then at the same time prove that the more manure one is allowed to use, the more one can actually raise the protein content and thus perhaps help to achieve the climate objectives, one could say that it could actually be a win-win situation: agriculture could produce more and, at the same time, it could be easier to achieve the climate targets. Will the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151825	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151827	I have heard the complex mentioned earlier, and I could understand that both some of the country's bakers and some of the country's beer producers distanced themselves from figures that had flourished that Danish bread grain could not be used under the current rules of cultivation. So I just don't think it's true that, as it is today, you can't use Danish bread grain or beer grain for that matter. But, as I said, it's an area that's a little distant from my resort, and so I don't have very good calculations on it. I can say that, of course, the climate is damaged by emissions wherever they come from. There is no interest on my part in moving emissions from Denmark and elsewhere. On the contrary, there is an interest in reducing our climate impact as much as possible across all the sectors that exist, including agriculture. So that agriculture can play a positive role, I believe, certainly. Agriculture can also play a role in relation to its own reductions in food production. I think they can, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151924	Thank you. The questioner. No, it's over. Thank you to the questioner. The third question is to the Minister for Transport, and that is Mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151936	Thank you. I would like to ask: What is the Minister's view that several citizens who have been registered with the Notices have informed us that they have not received information from Post Denmark about the new higher tariffs for 2015 by post?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151952	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114151953	Thank you very much for that question. First of all, I have to inform you that the scheme is not within my remit. However, in the postal code, which falls within my remit, the distribution of unaddressed consignments, such as advertising from grocery stores, is regulated solely by provisions that must be properly distributed. The possibility of saying no to advertising follows from the guidelines issued by the Consumer Ombudsman on the basis of the Marketing Act. It is therefore the Consumer Ombudsman who has estimated that Post Danmark's price leaflet is an advertisement and therefore must not be distributed to households who have said no to advertising. And so this is where we have the explanation for the question that citizens who have signed up for the "Advertisements" scheme have not received this price leaflet either. The questioner also asks about my position on the matter and, as far as it is concerned, I think it is generally a good thing that citizens have the opportunity to say no to advertising. I do, and I benefit greatly from that arrangement at home. However, even if you have said no to advertising and thus have not received Post Danmark's price folders by post, there is still access to price information from the company. This information can then be found on Post Danmark's website, and citizens can also get information about prices at Post Danmark's various services by contacting the many service locations, post offices and other services across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152124	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152126	Now you can say what you want about addressless shipments, and you can also interpret in many ways. Today, according to the system, it is legal for us, as politicians in every election campaign, to send out unaddressed mail and not have to respect a no-thank-you regime. Similarly, magazines and magazines of congregations from churches and congregations are also exempt. Then I understand what the Minister is saying about the Consumer Ombudsman, but it is perhaps a little paradoxical that Post Denmark cannot be exempted because Post Denmark has a supply obligation throughout the country and because there may be no great competition in the outermost regions and that is the only option that citizens have for sending letters. I do not think it is all citizens who have the opportunity to find the information on Post Danmark's website to find out the new tariffs. If they have any old stamps, I think it is a pity that they have not been informed of new tariffs just because they are part of a system of no-thank you for advertising from, for example, the United Kingdom. groceries. They are thus going to be fined for under-ranking, and I think that is actually a pity. So, although the Consumer Ombudsman is apparently saying that he thinks this is a distortion of competition, I would like to ask the Minister if he would be willing to take a look at whether we can get Post Danmarks tarifblad with us under these exceptions, which are therefore already there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152255	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152256	There are precisely exceptions. In other words, if you are registered with the No-Thank you, you will receive consignments that do not involve professional activity. This applies, among other things, to: information from state, region and municipality, electoral material from political parties, collection or information material from charitable associations and disease prevention organisations, as well as material from religious institutions such as church journals. It is quite true that these are excluded. It is therefore the case that the Consumer Ombudsman has simply decided that Post Danmark's price leaflets are not part of the public information but part of Post Danmark's business as an economic activity. And that is what the law says, namely that the consumer Ombudsman has the right to make such decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152345	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152346	I should just like to ask briefly: does the Minister agree with the consumer Ombudsman's interpretation of this or does the Minister think otherwise?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152355-2	As I started my answer by saying, the system of no-grates to advertising is not under my remit, and the legislation under which the Ombudsman works is not under my remit either. As far as I understand, there is an arm's length principle here, which means that it is the Consumer Ombudsman who can make these decisions. I think that is a good principle and there is perhaps a reason why there are very many countries that have copied the Ombudsman's institution and introduced it in different places. In my view, this is a strengthening of consumer rights. There you can agree or disagree, but I do not think it is appropriate for me, as a minister, to interfere in this matter. I am just making sure that the companies for which I am responsible comply with the decisions that have been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152448	So I would like to ask the Minister himself whether he can or will reply to him about something that might be within the minister's remit, namely DSB: is it true that there is debate or consideration that DR must send their tariff or price changes digitised over e-Boks? If so, could Post Denmark also benefit from this scheme? I know that a little contradicts what I said earlier about those who find it difficult to go online, but there are some who will benefit from it after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152524	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152525	I am very sorry, but I think I just lost track. I didn't get it. It was something about DR and DSB, and I simply do not understand the question. I also think it might be on the edge of the question that I have prepared myself for, so I would recommend that I have it in writing or that we meet again next time there is a question hour in this Chamber and take it orally. But if it's DR, it's not my resort. DSB is my resort, if that's what the question was about. I'm sorry, I don't think I was able to understand that part of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152600	That was the question. Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 4 to the Minister of Transport by Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152614	Thank you for that, President. The question is: what does the Minister intend to do about DSB in order to ensure better regularity, compliance with the road map and more seats on individual train departures on the northwest railway?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152632	Thank you for the question. At least this is my resort, so I'm looking forward to answering that question. I am asked what I will do to ensure better compliance with the road map on the North-West railway. As the commuters are aware, a new road map period began on 14 December last year, 2014, and I have received data from DSB, and in this I can see that in week 51, which was then the first week after the road map change, the level of delays on the northwest track was at a level that, frankly, was unsatisfactory. Time was only 89.7%, and that is far below what we can rightly demand and demand from our train operators. I can also see that in the following weeks DSB has managed to control the timing of the North-West railway, so that it is again at a fairly high level. The timing was in week 2 here this year at 95.7%, i.e. from 89.7%. 95.7%.; that's a big thank you up. It is, of course, my expectation that the large investments that we have made in recent years will further contribute to improved timeliness and reliability. The large investments are partly the construction of the double track between Lejre and Vipperød, so there are now double tracks on the entire route between Roskilde and Holbæk and the new signal programme. I am also being asked today what I will do to ensure more seats on the individual train departures on the northwest railway. The latest quarterly report from DSB, which I have, is from the third quarter of 2014, and I will immediately send it to the Transport Committee. It shows that DSB complies with the requirements set out in the DSB contract for coating both within and outside peak hours. It also appears that the surface of the trains on the northwest railway is lower than the overall surface of the whole country. I can also inform you that the new road map, which came into force in December, compared with previous departures on the North West railway during rush hour. We must, of course, all the other things being equal mean that, overall, there is now a greater seating capacity on the North-West railway than in the past. I would also like to send those figures to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152842	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114152843	Thank you for your answer. And then I would say that it is quite right, as the Minister has said, that there have been major problems and that there are still major problems, both with delays and lack of seats. This means that, in the case of delays or perhaps sometimes cancellations, commuters have to wait an incredibly long time to get on a train, for example. Only two trains run in an hour. It is highly unsatisfactory that this is the way it is. I would like to say that in the case of example. cancellations must be such that, instead of stopping to take passengers to and from the stations in question, a train which the commuters see just slip by and which is a passing train stops. I would like to ask the Minister if the Minister thinks it would be a good service to the commuters that speed trains, for example. in the event of cancellations, stopped at all stations so that they could, exceptionally, take with them those passengers who would otherwise have to wait unnecessarily long.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153003	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153005	Thank you for the question. I and, I think, everyone who has taken the train more or less regularly knows the situation with a cancelled train and then you want to get on the next train as soon as possible. I can just say that my expectation is that the train operators, in this case DSB, are doing what they can to clean up after various breaks. It could be something they're not mastering. It may be signal failures that we often have, or it may be falling overhead contact lines or other. So, DSB is doing everything they can to get people picked up within the framework they have, because you have to get back in the road map as soon as possible, and there is always a balance of what you can do best. But we can expect and count on and demand that we do the best we can to ensure that the passengers who are waiting are cleaned up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153050	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153051	I am also surprised that the Minister said in the reply he gave that there were no overcrowded trains. That is what the Minister said. For according to the reports I receive from commuters on the route in question, during rush hour there are overcrowded trains and that you cannot get a seat while you can see that there is empty fast and past where there are plenty of seats. This situation is extremely unsatisfactory for the commuters, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he will do anything about it so that there will be greater compensation between the empty or almost empty trains and those overcrowded.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153136	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153137	It certainly sounds like something that is annoying, and also something that could be dealt with immediately. When I say that DSB meets the requirements, I refer to the requirements defined in the current DSB contract, which was concluded almost 10 years ago. That contract had some requirements as to how high the occupancy rate should be, i.e. how many seats there should be for travellers, how many rush hour problems could be accepted etc. These are the demands that I can see are met in DSB. That is not to say that there are no problems with crowded trains and that it is not something that can cause discomfort. We all know about this, and the further towards Copenhagen you get, the more people are on the train, and the more crowded the trains can be. There is also less travel time, but we must work towards as many people as possible being able to have a seat. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153232	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153233	Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether he will follow the situation on the North-West railway very closely, both in terms of regularity, compliance with the road map and the number of seats, and whether the Minister will take action against the DSB when the Minister can see that things are not in order in the areas I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153254	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153256	The questioner can safely count on me to follow it very, very closely. In fact, it is precisely on the North-West railway that we inaugurated last year the result of the very large investment which it was to get double tracks, as I also mentioned in my reply, and I have found that the commuters from Kalundborg and Holbæk are joyful and that there is a large increase in the number of train travellers. That's really good. But the winnings must be possible throughout the journey, and I think the whole parliament is concerned about that. When we invest so much and so rightly in public transport, it must also be something that benefits those travelling by rail.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153333	Thank you. The question is closed. There is a new question, and it is also from Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, Left, but this time it is to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153346	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's view that the land between two infrastructure installations, such as the areas between Køge Bugt-Motorvejen and the new Copenhagen-Ringsted railway, is being used for industrial areas in order to strengthen the local economy and create jobs and growth, with the added benefit that there will be less pressure on other, more environmentally sensitive areas where business areas could otherwise be considered?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153418	It is my view that if there is a need for new industrial areas in a municipality or within a region, it would be appropriate to consider areas between large infrastructure installations, as the questioner describes in his question, i.e. if, for example, there is one. Highway and rail body are close to each other. The areas may be subject to specific constraints. For example: land in the Finger Plan, located in the open country, shall, as a starting point, be freed from new industrial areas. This is due to a desire to avoid urban dispersal in the open country and to a desire to respect the social investment that has been put in place to place motorways most considerately in the countryside. Having said that, as I said, it makes a great deal of sense when it is possible to do so. In the metropolitan area there are examples of an area previously classified for recreational use now being designated for occupation, because it has then become entangled between infrastructure installations. It would not necessarily be appropriate to place new business areas on such land; it always depends on a concrete assessment. But there are municipalities, for example. In the Finger Plan area, which wishes to extend restricted areas to occupations, they must contact the Danish Nature Agency, which will then assess the possibilities for a revision of the Finger Plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153547	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153548	There are, of course, many different and also contradictory considerations and interests that need to be considered and compensated for in relation to each other. It is also mentioned by the Minister when it comes to deciding what the vacant areas are to be used for. We must preserve and support the Danish nature. At the same time, we must ensure development and growth to which companies can contribute. There is a potential for strengthening both growth and business on the remaining areas mentioned here, without compromising on environmental considerations, because there is a short distance between the two plants. That is why I think it is hardly possible to claim that something will be destroyed in the natural sense by the fact that between a motorway and a railway station which is very close to each other, land is being used for commercial areas. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he believes that priority should be given to the construction of these lands for commercial purposes, so that we can create both growth in Denmark, but also so that the land that is now allocated to industry, which is perhaps more environmentally sensitive and natural sensitive than the land we are talking about, can be taken out of planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153712	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153713	As I also said in my initial reply, I am, in a sense, in favour of considering whether new business areas can be located in such confined areas between two infrastructure installations. There are, of course, some prerequisites that need to be met. For example: there must be a need for new business areas. It is the case that I think that with the planning act we have a very good framework for the municipalities to be able to make the priority of where they, for example. want to have the development of their business. There you could imagine that there were examples of such an incredibly restricted area, but that they thus have vacant places in areas already planned for occupation. So it will always depend on a concrete assessment, and it is based on an assessment that the municipality has to make. If you wish to do so, I would urge you to do so if you are in that area, for example. as the municipalities in the Fingerplan, then contact the Danish Nature Agency for clarification of what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153813	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153814	But it is very positive that the Minister is positive about this situation and will be open to the use of these land. Because it will be marginal areas, it will be some remaining areas that will be left out in the countryside and, in fact, to no avail in the world, and it is quite foolish, when we also have other areas to take out and to a greater extent to take this aspect of nature into account. But I understand that in the area of the Finger Plan, where land is reserved for other purposes too, the Minister would be willing to go in and make a balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153857	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153858	But there is what I want to say that I think that in the specific cases the municipalities should contact the Danish Nature Agency and clarify what the possibilities are. However, as I said in my reply before, there are also certain conditions that must be met. New industrial areas must be needed, and it is clear that planning in relation to industrial areas must also be seen in a context. There is, of course, a reason why it is based on the expansion of industrial areas linked to cities, and this is, of course, about other infrastructure facilities, such as: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. So I would certainly say that there may be areas that are quite obvious for this, and if you are in an area where you need it, then the Danish Nature Agency would like to make itself available in relation to discussing it with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153950	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114153952	However, my point with the question is that it is very important that there is now a new situation by creating these marginal areas, these remaining areas, and they can then be included rather than the industrial areas that are laid out in places where it is perhaps more natural and environmentally sensitive. So you can, we might say, make some kind of mate change. That's just what I want the Minister to see and be open to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154025	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154026	But there is, of course, the fact that new industrial estates must be linked to the cities and that the law on plans provides precisely that we do not have scattered industries in the open country, and that is of course also a balance that must be included in such cases. However, my approach to the question that has been asked today is that I am in fact positive that you can look at these areas that are incredibly complicated and if there are questions, for example. In relation to the Finger Plan, yes, I think that we should make enquiries so that we can clarify what is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154103	Thank you to the Minister and to the questioner. The next question is to the tax minister by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154112	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Minister for making yourself available to Parliament. The question is this: is the Minister satisfied that SKAT cannot provide information on the number of company inspections carried out by SKAT in the context of double support and undeclared work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154132	I would like to begin by thanking you for your kind reception. I am, of course, happy to make myself available on this issue too. I would like to start by stating that SKAT's corporate controls and other control activities are aimed at the correct settlement of taxes and duties. It is therefore not the case that any of the inspections carried out by SKAT are designed for the narrow purpose of revealing situations where social benefits have been wrongly paid, while at the same time undeclared work is being carried out. The reason for SKAT's focus is the simple purpose that SKAT does not have the authority and control centres that are aimed at social fraud and double support, or said in plain English: SKAT must not control for these matters. Therefore, if there is a suspicion of unjustified payment of social benefits, etc. during a check on correct tax payments, SKAT may transmit this information only to the competent authority or authorities. It is then up to the relevant authority to assess whether and, where appropriate, how to follow up this information from SKAT and the related activity will be included in the activity statistics of that authority, i.e. not in the SKATs. I therefore see no factual or practical basis for the separate registration of the number of data provided to other authorities in the framework of the tax and other task-solving work carried out by the SKAT, of suspected infringements of social legislation or registration of undeclared work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154313	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154314	It was very helpful. Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for Taxation. When I take an interest in this, this is in fact due to a deep interest in the fact that in our public authorities we have a control that is service-minded and, of course, also aimed at pre-empting and checking that, of course, people are not cheating on public funds or with their information about being available to the labour market. I have asked the Minister for Employment on several occasions and asked him to explain how this control is being carried out, and that is why the Minister for Taxation and I have ended up in this situation in Parliament. The Minister for Employment has informed me about this on several occasions, and most specifically in the answer to question 453 • Of course I do not expect it to be the Minister's responsibility to inform the Minister that the Agency for the Labour Market and Recruitment, in cooperation with SKAT, is visiting through several rounds, but that by common agreement in the government this control will be stopped at the end of 2012, after which responsibility will be transferred to SKAT. And that is where I can no longer understand the context, because subsequently the Folketing cannot be informed of how many cases have been set up in connection with inspections. One cannot be told of the number of company control visits and how this control has materialized. When that is so interesting, it is precisely because then we are no longer aware of whether controls work, how effective controls are and how intensive the government is prepared to carry out controls. So I really think that the Minister has helped very well to see that there is a huge gap in our control work right now, in that the Ministry of Employment's authorities say, on the one hand, that it is the responsibility of SKAT, and on the other hand, the Minister has just informed me that SKAT does not have the power to control independently, but must involve other authorities. I can see clearly from the cases that have been set up that it has fallen enormously until SKAT answers that they now no longer have statistics on the number of cases. Does the Minister see that this is also a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154518	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154520	It is quite true that in 2012 the way we work together in this area changed. The Ministry of Employment has informed me that this was done in connection with the implementation of effective administration and that the Agency's participation in corporate control was focused so that the Agency no longer took part in SKAT's outgoing controls. I can also understand that the Employment Committee has been informed of this in several rounds and most recently in relation to the Minister for Employment's answer to Question No. 55 of the Employment Committee. But that doesn't change anything. Because it is the case that when the SKAT finds something which appears to be in the hands of another authority, this information is also, of course, passed on to the appropriate authority, and that is what happens, whether it be in the municipalities or in other parts of the social services.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154621	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154624	Thank you. We know that in 2012 705 inspections were carried out on various companies, that the Agency participated in 449, that 1,127 people were checked and 99 cases were set up. This is interesting information both for the Minister and for the Employment Committee. Is it not unsatisfactory that today we no longer have the opportunity to have that information brought to the market?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154652	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154654	Now it is the case that in the following question too, as Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt has also asked questions about these figures. Without prejudging the course of events, however, I think it is essential to stress that in all cases it is the case that if the authorities in the SKAT find something which they consider suspicious, this information is also, of course, passed on to the appropriate authority. But the question is, of course, what the SKAT is going for. That's one of them. a focused effort on undeclared work, and I also assume that the questioner agrees with me that it makes real sense to focus on it. Of course, it may happen that there is a coincidence between things and that some of the social benefits which are wrongly paid are paid to some of the same people who may be engaged in undeclared work. But it is not necessarily the case that one can say in advance what that context is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154757	Thank you, thank you, thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154800	Thank you. I shall be very brief. The fact is that the Minister has also been kind enough to reply to the honourable Member's question. 224. The minister writes among other things: The SKAT does not have any statistical records of the number of company inspection visits where undeclared work has been carried out at the same time as social benefits have been wrongly paid. I am thinking of the fact that since one has a recording equipment which I am sure works according to the Minister's wishes, it would not be a great inconvenience to note such vital information. After all, it is important that we know how this is going to develop, both so that we in the Folketing and the authorities can manage after more optimal control to overcome this problem. So will the Minister not take the initiative to bring the information to the market?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154843	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154845	It would require that SKAT had the competent authority in the field. So, the point is that when SKAT puts a control effort in selected areas, for example. In the field of undeclared work, one cannot know in advance whether this also means that there may be social fraud or other involvement. But if you come across it, you pass on the information to the authority that is the right one. However, I also think it would be wrong for SKAT, when you are not the competent authority, to have to make all kinds of registrations. So, strictly speaking, it would mean that if a SKAT employee were to observe a traffic accident and report it to the police, SKAT would also have to register it. There are also limits to how much registration we have to make when SKAT is not the competent authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154933	Thank you. Then we move on to the final question, and it is to the tax minister of Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114154941	Thank you for that, President. The question is: Is the Minister satisfied that SKAT cannot explain why the number of cases opened in the first half of 2012 has decreased from 99 to 23 in 2013 and 41 in 2014 (up to and including the third quarter), cf. SKAT's contribution to the answer to Question No. 58 (BEU, alm. part)?
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155002	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155004	First of all, I should like to point out that it is clear from the answer given by the Minister for Employment to Question No. 58 of the Employment Committee that 99 cases were created throughout 2012 and thus not in the first half of 2012, as can be seen from the questioner's question. Secondly, for the sake of good order, I should like to point out that the issue relates to established cases in the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency, where there are suspicions of unjustified payment of benefits from cashiers. The cases are created on the basis of reported random observations of such suspicions by the SKAT. The observations are provided as part of the company controls carried out on the correct settlement of taxes and duties. On the basis of the reports from SKAT, cases are created in the Danish Labour Market and Recruitment Agency after an initial search and assessment. As I stated in my reply to the previous question, S 532, SKAT is not authorised to carry out checks targeted at the unjustified payment of social benefits or to deal with cases of unjustified payment of social benefits itself. For the same reason, SKAT does not systematically record the number of checks where there is a suspicion of unjustified payment of benefit, early retirement or other social benefits. In other words, the control and handling of cases of social fraud is not a core task for SKAT, but are issues encountered by SKAT in tax and tax control activities, and therefore SKAT has no systematically documented basis for explaining the development of the number of cases created by the Danish Labour Market and Recruitment Agency, where there are suspicions regarding the payment of daily allowances, etc. In fact, I do not believe that SKAT should be able to explain a case development that falls within the remit of another authority, and I therefore do not agree with the argument put forward in the question that it is not satisfactory that SKAT cannot make such a statement, because it is not the task of SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155206	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155207	The Minister can, of course, thank his colleague, the Minister for Employment, for his misfortune today in the Assembly, if you look at it that way, because my questions to the Minister are precisely due to the fact that every time I ask about this, the Minister for Employment refers to the cooperation that is now left to the SKAT. That is why I have invited the Minister to visit Parliament today, precisely because the information seems no longer to be in one place. It is not the case that I can ask the Minister for Employment to inform me about the total number of visits and what it has done at the various levels, because the Labour Market Authority simply no longer participates in the inspections. The Minister is quite right in what the task of SKAT as an authority is, and I recognise that as well to the Minister is absolutely correct. But does the Minister not see that we have a problem when, on his company inspection visits, SKAT does not have the task that the Labour Market Authority, as the accompanying authority, carried out before? We have simply lost a management tool to combat social fraud and undeclared work when it is no longer possible to go directly to the cases on the visits, but SKAT will subsequently have to report and then the relevant authorities in the Ministry of Employment will have to take action. I think we may have come into a situation where we have less effective control than the one we had before. I am not going to place political responsibility, but my mission with it is, in fact, just to hear the Minister's position and perhaps involve the Minister in a dialogue on whether we could do better, both so that we have the statistical basis, but, above all, we also ensure that taxpayers get some money that they may have been cheated on and that we ensure that the controls we carry out, which are also costly, are made most effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155347	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155348	I am very confident that in the efforts made by SKAT, targeted efforts are being made to pursue black work, which I think makes a great deal of sense and where it is also possible to carry out risk assessments and identify certain areas where it makes good sense to carry out targeted controls. What then turns out is that in some cases there is a coincidence between cases where undeclared work is carried out or where there is at least a risk and where unjustified social benefits may be paid, but it is actually very difficult to define in advance where these cases could be. So that's the kind of thing you fall over when you're lucky to find some cases anyway. But that does not mean that we do not carry out extensive controls, because SKAT does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155444	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155445	Well, there are two options. Either control is not good enough anymore, or people have become extremely much more law-abiding in a very short time. For in the answer to question No. 58 writes the Minister for Employment: The Ministry of Labour and Recruitment has informed me that the Board has been aware of the decline in established cases concerning company controls from 2012 to 2013 and that the Board has noted that the number of data transmitted from SKAT has increased from 2013 to 2014. This must mean that controls have improved, because the number of cases created is considerably lower.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155521	Here you go, the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155522	If you compare the figures, i.e. the whole of 2012 with 99 cases created and 2014 up to and including the third quarter with 41 cases created, then strictly speaking it is not, because it has to be said that these are huge amounts, not at all considering that SKAT is carrying out 9,300 checks as a whole and that they are carried out in 13 action projects. There is the point, of course, that there is an element of coincidence in where these cases might be found and where there is a coincidence between the two sizes. But that does not mean that we are not targeting the black work, which is the competence of the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155608	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155609	I really appreciate the Minister taking his ministerial responsibilities seriously and now state that there are over 9 000 checks per year. As a member of the Folketing, I have not been able to get a statistical answer to that until now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155623	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155624	What I am telling you is that in the 13 action projects carried out by SKAT in 2013, overall, there were 9,300 controls, that is. In total, in what the SKAT did. This is also apparent from the transparency report, which is available and which is also available to the Folketing. But that does not alter the basics of the fact that, in the 13 areas of action which have now been selected and of which undeclared work is one, it is not necessarily possible to conclude in advance where the risk is greatest of collusion between undeclared work and possible social fraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155702	Thank you. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150114155706	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. I shall say that the next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 15 January 2015, at 9 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
