ParlaMint-DK_20150415130003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children, Equality, Integration and Social Affairs: Bill No. L 186 (Proposal for a Law amending various legal provisions relating to the right of appeal and jurisdiction, etc.) in the field of family law. Bill No. 187 (Proposal for a law amending the adoption law. Martin Henriksen (DF) and Christian Langballe (DF): Request no. F 37 (How does the government relate to the fact that the City of Copenhagen has indicated that Islamic religions can construct a Grand Mosque in Copenhagen?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130041	The first question is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130055	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: Does the Minister believe that it is a good service for citizens that, according to a measurement by Wilke for Avisen.dk, one in three Danes does not find that digitalisation has made contact with the public easier here almost six months after the transition to digital mail and self-service over the network from 1 November 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130117	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130118	Thank you very much. After all, the digitalisation of public Denmark is a major change. It is a process that requires adaptation, and I have, of course, a great deal of respect for that. Although this is a major process of change, the experience also shows that the Danes are very much ready for the digitalisation and that we Danes are increasingly making use of the network when implementing the errands we have with the public. It is the case that 4.4 million Danes have NemID, and 89 per cent. by the Danes today receive mail from the public digitally. According to the measurement underlying the question here, the majority of Danes believe that digitalisation has made contact with the public easier, and I think that is quite nice. This testifies to me that we are heading in the right direction and that many Danes are already feeling the benefits of digitalisation. The measurement also shows that there is, of course, room for improvement. It's 33 percent. by the Danes, who say that digitalisation has not made contact with the public easier, but in my ears it is not the same as saying that it has become more difficult. A survey carried out for the Digitalization Board by Megafon in February 2015 and it was carried out among 1066 Danes • shows that 73 per cent. of the Danes are positive about using public services on the web, while 10%. is negative. So whatever study you are looking at, I think it is important that we recognise that this is a major change we have made with the transition to digital communication, but also that the Danes have largely embraced digitalisation and done so with good reason. Digitalisation is a powerful tool. It frees up resources that can be used for better core welfare and, at the same time, modernises the public service so that it becomes better and more flexible. The public sector must keep an eye on how we can do better, and we continuously work closely with relevant authorities to ensure that the IT solutions offered are user-friendly and that the rules in this area are properly administered so that citizens experience that the public sector provides a good service, digitally or not. The task of ensuring that we continue to have increased user-friendliness and value creation in public digitalisation will be a very important element of the new common public digitalisation strategy currently being worked on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130337	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130340	Thank you for your answer and thank you for a very serious answer. I am very pleased about that. It is, of course, an improvement for citizens that these tasks can now be carried out from home and that this can be done for 24 hours a day, virtually. But a large proportion of the population, that is to say ordinary people, do not see digitalisation as an improvement, and almost half a year after it has been introduced, one can hardly call it a transitional phase. So there are many citizens who feel that the lack of physical contact makes it more insecure when they have to deal with important matters, and there may also be a lot at stake in these matters that are dealt with by the public authorities. The fact that the system does not have a human face can at the same time mean that citizens do not feel heard when enquiries are made directly into joint mail with little opportunity for the citizen to follow up on the matter. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister considers it reasonable to the citizens that, because of the lack of personal and physical contact with the authorities, they do not feel safe and do not feel heard in important matters. Because it's important here that everyone is involved. It's not enough that 90%. Got it. Here we have a situation where it is important that everyone feels that they are in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130501	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130503	We can start by exchanging thanks, because I also think it is a serious issue that is worth discussing. And I would also like to express my thanks to the author's party, in other words the Left, for having been behind all the decisions that have been taken in this particular area. This is something we do together in a broad majority where the Left is a supporting element. So I would say in all due respect to the questioner that I do not think the study referred to can be interpreted in any way as if respondents feel more insecure or express a dissatisfaction by not having physical contact. There is only one minority who say that they have not experienced real improvements, and that is quite logically something else. Finally, I would like to say that this is one of the very important focus points of the new joint public digitalisation strategy that the state, the municipalities and the regions are working together to make this work even better, precisely from the point of view of the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130553	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130554	Thank you. With digitalisation, some citizens may find that, instead of fewer barriers, there have been more barriers. That's what you hear from time to time. This is not clear from the study, but at least that is what I hear from the contacts I have with a number of citizens. And it should not be the case that it has become more difficult to get in touch with the public than it was before, for example because a citizen cannot get in touch with Jens Jensen from the municipality, but has contact with an anonymous email address. I would therefore like to ask: what does the Minister intend to do to prevent citizens from experiencing digitalisation as a bureaucratic solution that takes account of administration rather than of citizens? Because it is of course important that we still have the citizens involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130648	Minister for Finance
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130649	Basically, I intend to follow exactly the legislation that we have adopted together with the Left and live up to the strategies that the Left has put behind it. And there it is important that this is rolled out in a way that people experience as gentle, approachable, and that takes into account that people are different. It is clear from my memory that half a million citizens have actually obtained exemption from mandatory digital mail, precisely for the reasons mentioned by the questioner. So it's definitely important, but it's something we're all about. So I would like to add that for the vast majority, too many older people, this is an easier way of doing things. Among other things: many older ones are given the opportunity to help their relatives. They simply gain access to the digital mailbox that their elderly relatives may not be able to operate. And it is easier than having to mess with your old mother's pile of letters from the municipality on occasion, when you come by, unfortunately too rarely for some.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130740	Then it's mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130741	I fully agree that for many, and for the vast majority, this is an improvement. But what's my point is that it's important that we all have the same thing. Everyone needs to be involved in this, and there is what we need to do, and perhaps also an educational effort, to ensure that everyone comes along and feels secure about it. Because it must not be the case that turning to the public, which in many areas has a monopoly vis-à-vis the citizen, suddenly becomes such that this monopoly is something far removed from which we cannot really get in touch. So this is very important. So what is my point is that we are all getting on board, including the monopoly business that the public sector is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130821	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130822	I think that is an important point. Let us gather around it and then I would urge the questioner to go back to the Confederal Group of the European United Left and perhaps discuss or wonder whether the public sector in its handling of that task, especially municipalities and regions, will have easier to do this with public zero growth over the next four years than in a situation in which we can actually afford to allocate a little more resources to what we think is most important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130844	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130854	Thank you for that, President, and the question is this: does the Minister agree with the political rapporteur of the Socialist Group, Mrs Panduro, that the government has tightened the requirements for asylum and, if so, why is the Minister responsible for the examination of Bill No. L 72 the answer Parliament, and now I quote again that the proposed rules neither extend nor limit the requirements for obtaining protection in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130928	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415130930	Thank you for the question. Furthermore, when we in the government, together with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, have tightened the asylum rules, it is because we want to find the right balance in Danish asylum policy. At a time when we are seeing some of the largest flows of refugees since the period after World War II, we must, on the one hand, live up to both human and international responsibilities, and, on the other hand, ensure that we can integrate and manage the entire integration effort in the country's municipalities and local authorities. In my view, there is a fundamental difference between whether one flees because one is individually persecuted or one flees areas where there is unrest, such as a civil war, that is, circumstances that, I hope, change, so that one's need for protection also changes. May I not just stress again, as I often do in the dialogue with the Left in this area, that I think it is important to say that no one is fleeing for fun and that, when there are such huge refugee challenges as there are worldwide, it is of course also contagious in Denmark. We have tightened the asylum rules and they must ensure that those refugees who have a more temporary need for protection can return home more easily when conditions allow. Tightenings consist in the introduction of a temporary protection status, and, secondly, of a year of family reunification for asylum seekers who are granted temporary protection status. Thirdly, we have made it easier to include residence permits in order to ensure that refugees can return home when the situation in their country of origin makes it possible. As politicians, we have to deal with the reality in which we find ourselves, and the world is currently experiencing the highest number of asylum seekers since the Second World War, and it is contagious on Denmark. It is also important for me to say that the tightening up of the asylum rules is more than just a response to the current unhappy situation we are seeing in the Middle East, because with the new rules we are proposing to work with a temporary nature in the field of aliens in a different way than we have done in the past, and I think that is both sensible and reasonable. We have introduced flexible asylum rules that correspond to the protection needs of each refugee and so that we make it easier to send people home when they no longer need our protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131151	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131152	Thank you for that answer. However, that was not the answer to the question, which is why I would like to read the question again, and it says: does the Minister agree with the political rapporteur of the Socialist Group, Maja Panduro, that the government has tightened the requirements regarding when asylum can be obtained, and why, if so, does the Minister have responsibility for the consideration of draft law No. L 72 answer Parliament that the proposed rules neither extend nor restrict the requirements for protection in Denmark? And if the Minister needs help to understand the question, I am happy to elaborate on it when I have more speaking time, and it is of course about the government saying that the rules have been tightened, but is it tightening the rules the same as tightening the requirements? If you ask the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Maja Panduro, she says that we have tightened the requirements for how someone can get asylum in Denmark, and I just cannot really reconcile that with the answer given by the Minister under ministerial responsibility when we dealt with the bill, where the Minister clearly says that neither the requirements for protection in Denmark are extended nor reduced. That is to say, and it is to the credit of the listeners and those who have to keep up here that there is no change in a comma of who could get protection before and after, and the demands that exist for it, and that is something other than what the Socialist rapporteur says in the programme at Qvortrup, in Deadline and a large number of other places. Why, then, is this a relevant political debate? Isn't that just mud-throwing? No, it's not. After all, we have a real political debate on whether there is a need to ensure that fewer or more asylum seekers come to Denmark. And there we say in the Left that we want fewer, and so does the government. But when we ask the government what you do for it, you're not completely honest about what you're going to do and what you've done. For example: The Socialist political rapporteur says something different about the importance of the draft law adopted by the government, L 72, than that which the Minister has replied under ministerial responsibility, and I think that the Minister of Justice here today owes the public as well as the Folketing an answer to what is right. Is that what has been answered under ministerial responsibility, namely that it does not matter, it is neither extended nor restricted, nor is it what Mrs Maja Panduro says, namely that it has tightened the requirements as to when anyone can get asylum? Then the Minister must honestly say whether it is right or wrong. Because it's no good that we can have one thing that is said under ministerial responsibility, and then something else when you're standing in front of a rolling TV camera. It's not honest, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131417	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131418	But maybe this debate is a little too important to make it a language debate. Because it is quite true that the demands have not been extended or limited; that is what has been said under ministerial responsibility, and I repeat that, and I believe that the Socialist rapporteur has meant the same thing with what has been said in public. I believe that we must be careful to make such strict demands on the ordinary dialogue that, as an ordinary member of parliament, we must always be able to say exactly what a minister says. I think the rapporteur has thought the same thing. But can I ask the Left, given that I have the opportunity, something: when you say that you want to limit the number of asylum seekers to Denmark, and you know very well what international obligations apply to what we call Convention refugees, does that mean that the Left wants to terminate the refugee convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131511	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131513	If the Left wins a forthcoming parliamentary election and you get a Left Minister who is Minister of Justice or Minister of Integration, then I am sure he would like to answer that question. But it does work that way, Minister of Justice, that in Question Time this is how it is to be in the opposition that the privilege of being able to ask questions to the government is not the other way. But at that time I would like to reply and I would also like to respond in a debate if the Minister for Justice wishes to stand in a live debate with me. The Minister has not done so in his ministerial period, and I think it is about the government having a really bad case in relation to this. It is basically about the government saying that you want to tighten the rules, that you say that it is a problem with many asylum seekers, but that the legislation you adopt does not do anything about it; the rules and then we are back to it again, neither expanding nor restricting the requirements for protection in Denmark. However, I would like to acknowledge that the Minister for Justice is putting the political rapporteur, Mrs Panduro, in place and saying that it is not true that the government has tightened the requirements as to when asylum can be granted. I'd like to sign for that, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131613	Well, I actually see that I am in a lively debate with the rapporteur of the Left and other good members of the opposition, because we are in the Chamber right now. After all, we are facing each other, hopefully both alive, and there are plenty of cameras on there, and we have several occasions for consultation and other things, so there are plenty of places to discuss. I just think it is a relevant question to ask, because it is really so easy to say on the Left side. In a world where there are millions of people on the run and where we have a number of international regulations to protect people who are individually persecuted, it is so easy to say that one wants to tighten the requirements, when one really knows very well that if they are individuals who are individually persecuted, they are also entitled to protection in Denmark, and that is why it is a relevant question to discuss: Does it mean that international conventions should be denounced?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131707	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131709	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I agree, of course, with the Minister that there must be some kind of free space where you can have the political debate and, of course, you should not run around and slap each other in the head by the slightest mistake of speech. I would then, at least personally, occasionally run into quite serious problems. The problem here is simply that there is a pattern of the political rapporteur for the Socialists and the questions we have asked here today, which is also a symptom of the fact that the government says one thing under ministerial responsibility, but then there is a political rapporteur who in the public debate says something quite different. I would just like to ask the Minister if the Minister does not agree that if there is a systematic approach and if it is a general tendency to say one thing in the answers you give to the members of the Folketing and that in the public debate you really say something quite different, then you have a problem. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131816-2	I believe that, in this context, the words of the Socialist rapporteur should not be seen as a general trend, but as a contribution to a political debate. And I think that too often we forget the substantial content of this refugee debate, because it will sound so easy, I think when I overhear it, that is, if you can just tighten or you can not tighten. After all, this is an extremely complex situation we find ourselves in, because people do not flee for fun, and it is clear that with the Islamic State, which in their own understanding is on a crusade through the Middle East, which kills people, rapes girls and wants to introduce a caliphate that many people fortunately choose from and therefore flees, yes, we are in a situation where many people need protection. Conversely, we must also be able to do the job in Denmark, and that is the balancing point that we must find and pursue, and in fact it is the discussion that is interesting: where is the balancing point, and how do we help each other in the Folketing to find the right legislation? In relation to how complex the problem is, I so wish it was what we could use our energy to find, because it's hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131924	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415131925	I fully agree with the Minister on that. I mean, I was a victim of the Islamic State in the areas where they house, so I'd get on my feet pretty fast. That is why these are important questions, and we are spending a lot of time in Parliament and in all sorts of other contexts discussing how we can find the balance that the Minister himself mentions. But that is precisely why it is important that we have a common basis to discuss, in other words that we do not say one thing in a reply to the Folketing and then, in fact, in the public debate, have a completely different starting point and come up with something quite different from the answers that come from the ministers. Does the Minister not agree that it is also essential that we debate on a common basis, precisely because the debate is so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132020	Yes, it is a very good idea that we have a common basis to stand on. Hopefully we also have that for the time being when the legislative proposal under discussion was adopted, quite a lot of questions were put by the Folketing, all of which have been answered. I do not remember how many consultations I was in, but it was at least a few, and there was quite a lot of debate in different contexts. This should, of course, have established both the knowledge base and the factual basis needed to enable us to have the discussion. However, all this does not change the fact that what we must be careful together about pretending to the Danes is that there are some easy solutions to an issue that is so important in its nature and nature, because we are dealing with people who are fleeing from a terrorist organisation, we ourselves are doing everything we can to combat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132111	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen for final questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132113	Thank you. I would also like to be the first to sign for a good and thorough legal procedure in connection with L 72. What led the Left to vote in favour was that we received some answers and also some honest answers, and I would like to sign for that. What we then find a little unfortunate now is that the government is not entirely honest about what this bill has meant, and so there is a difference between what the Minister says in this Chamber and what the Socialist rapporteur has said. So we're just asking for honesty, and the honest answer is that the government hasn't changed whether you can get asylum in Denmark with this tightening. The requirements for protection in Denmark have not been reduced or extended, and we do not understand why the government is not just saying honestly instead of sending its political rapporteur to the city with a completely different message.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132206	I certainly think that the Left has some credit for a very thorough legislative procedure in connection with the adoption of this bill, because it was not least the Left that asked many questions. I would like to thank you for that. And then I would say that I have said all the way through that if you are individually persecuted and therefore have a need for protection, you have the same access to asylum in Denmark as you have had under previous bourgeois governments. It follows from our international commitments, but I wonder if most of us would also believe that it follows from our human commitments that, if citizens are individually persecuted, they can enjoy protection in our country. Then there is another group of refugees who have a more temporary need for protection. The provisions on this have not been in our legislation before, they have been introduced now, and I am, in fact, pleased with the support from the Danish Parliament for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132252	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132258	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister believe that the temporary protection rules adopted by Bill No. L 72, has had the desired effect since the law came into force?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132312	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132313	This is going to go a little further on the issue we have just been through, which is why I am not going to repeat everything I said, but just repeat that we have tightened the asylum rules and that we have done so because we want to find the right balance, and moreover, I would like to stress that these restrictions do not only apply to Syrian asylum seekers. When I am asked whether the legislative proposal has had the desired effect, I must repeat what I have said many times: it is basically not possible to foresee the development of the number of asylum seekers, nor the composition. This is, of course, due to the fact that there are a large number of factors that can affect it and that we cannot really predict which factors are relevant to each other. That is why I have consistently refrained from predicting or trying to guess how many asylum seekers will be covered by the new rules or what impact the new rules will have on the number of entry. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen has also asked in writing for information on how many persons have so far been covered by the new temporary protection status. In the period from 20 February to 9 April of this year, the National Council for Foreign Affairs has notified a total of 1,606 residence permits under Section 7 of the Aliens Act. And they are distributed in such a way that 1.313 have obtained Convention status that 234 have obtained protection status under paragraph 1. 2 and that 59 asylum seekers have been granted temporary protection. Of the 59 persons granted temporary protection status, 26 were Syrian nationals and 33 were stateless. The 59 people are equal to 4%. of the total number of asylum seekers granted a residence permit during the period and approx. 23% of a total of 255 asylum seekers from Syria and stateless persons who have been granted protection status in accordance with § 7 (1). 2 or 2 3. The impact of the tightening of asylum rules in relation to the number of people entering the country cannot be said to be specific, but what we can at least say is that we can see that the number of registered asylum seekers has fallen very significantly since the government announced the tightening of the asylum rules in September, because since the number of asylum seekers peaked back in September 2014 by 3,150 asylum seekers, the number has fallen to 440 in 2015, corresponding to a decrease of approx. 86%
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132540	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132541	Thank you for that answer. I'm really glad. This is something we have been asking for a long time, and that is also why we have been asking the question down here in the Parliamentary Chamber. So I'd like to sign for that answer. The reason why we have taken an interest in it on the part of the Left has been that the current Minister for Justice, as I think in many areas, is doing quite well, even better than his predecessor in some areas, although, like the predecessors, we have given the impression that we are tightening the rules. The Minister has also said this in an answer to a specific question, that is to say that we are tightening up the rules in the area of asylum. I even think that the government has put in large bus advertisements that you tighten the rules and make more demands on immigrants and have given the impression that this problem of the influx of asylum to Denmark is now being solved. That's why we asked about it. There is this bill which the Left has voted for and we said that we are voting for it because it is a small tightening, but a surgical procedure • but how many are covered by it? I am glad that we have that answer now, because if I hear what the Minister for Justice says correctly, 59 out of 1,606 are included. That's about 31⁄2-4 per cent. So the government's tightening of the rules, which you can read about on bus and buses, hits 31⁄2-4 per cent. I have to say that I do not think that is very impressive. This certainly confirms to me that what we in the Left said when we discussed the legislative proposal, namely that it was a very, very small group and a very, very small micro-tightening, is correct. I would just like to thank the Minister for pointing out that, unfortunately, only very, very few people are actually affected by these changed rules, which the government has made an absolutely crucial point in its asylum policy and are now campaigning for. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice again if she can't confirm that it's only 31⁄2-4 per cent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter and that it has not yet taken a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132745	I think that if we are to carry out a complete analysis of this, to the extent possible, we need to look at two issues. One has to look at how many have been granted a residence permit and according to what rules. That is what concerns the 4%. But the other side of this coin, so to speak, or discussion, is the whole number of entry, because we know very well, as we have discussed in the Assembly earlier, that some of the smugglers working on the international market are aware of what discussions there are in each country and what rules there are. What we are seeing at the same time is a right, it has to be said, a great drop in the number of people entering the country, and I think it is only necessary to do so in order to have the complete picture, insofar as we have it at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132835	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132836	Thank you. Well, these human smugglers are gonna find out these numbers. Well, you can't give the impression that we're doing a big tightening and counting on it to get through. After all, they are looking into things, and they find out that this asylum-tightening agency, of which the government has drawn a picture, actually hits very, very few. I have to tell the Minister for Justice and I want to know if she can't confirm that if you have to make an honest comparison to see if it has had any effect, you have to look at the entry number for the first 2 months of 2015 versus the first 2 months of 2014. These are the known numbers. If you compare the two figures, there has actually been an increase. Can the Minister not confirm that? There are more who have travelled into January and February and have applied for asylum in Denmark in 2015 than there was in 2014. Can the Minister not confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415132918	Now I do not have the January figures, but I think there will be a fall if you compare February with February, but it is marginal. So I do not think that that is what we should place our arguments on by anyone, neither the questioner nor I who answer. But what you can do is different. One can, of course, look at how developments are in the neighbouring countries with which we usually compare ourselves. If we take Norway, there's been a fall of 59 percent. Sweden has a fall of 60%. So we're at 86%. If we look at Germany, there has been an increase of 33 per cent. So there are at least some movements out here that are interesting. That is why I would like to say again that I think you should look both at the basis of stay and at who is allocated it and how it looks with the entry number.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133006	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133009	I really think that this debate is pretty wild. I hope that many people sit and follow it, because this is the first time that we have just got a clue as to how much this so-called tightening has actually meant. Can the Minister not answer whether the Minister thinks that the 59 people affected by the austerity that has been introduced can be matched by the huge campaign in which the Socialists have probably posted millions and millions of dollars? It has given the impression, at least in the Copenhagen City Picture, that there has been a violent tightening up here. Does the Minister think that 59 people, equal to 4%, can carry the huge campaign of the Social Democrats in the Copenhagen city picture?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133112	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133113	First of all, I hope that the campaign has gone further than only to Copenhagen. It is not certain that the questioner has been outside Copenhagen, but there is also a country outside Greater Copenhagen, and I hope there will also be an opportunity to see the Social Democratic campaign. Then we will say two things in addition. Firstly, we have said all the way through that if you are individually persecuted, you will not be covered by the new rules. And as it stands right now, the majority of those who are granted an asylum base are individually persecuted. That's why you can figure out that that number won't change much. Secondly, at the same time, it is important to say that right now we see, first and foremost, many asylum seekers from Syria, many of whom are individually persecuted because they are conscientious objectors. However, the rules here must apply in the area of asylum at all, and if you think back a few years, you will remember that we had a situation in Somalia, for example, where things changed in such a way that people could be sent back. But then we did not have legislation that created the framework for this to happen. As a result, these rules should also have an effect, both in terms of the number of admissions it is difficult to conclude on it but also in relation to future asylum situations. That is why we must be careful not only to measure it in the current situation, which is derived in particular from the situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133232	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133233	The reason I haven't been outside the Greater Copenhagen area here lately is that I've been so terribly nervous that the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister was going to issue an election, and since I'm in here, I've stayed in town. I don't doubt there's a campaign all over the country. Now it wasn't really the long explanation I was after. I simply asked whether the Minister thinks that the 4%.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133316	So I would say that if the questioner is nervous about not being able to get back to Copenhagen in time, if an election is issued, then I would urge the Left to support the Train Fund DK so that we have a faster train operation so that the questioner can also come back. Then I would like to say that I think we should look at the area under one. The Prime Minister announced in his New Year's speech, just followed by a concrete political initiative, among other things. from the Minister for Employment that in future we would also make greater demands on our refugees in terms of employment, which would make a positive contribution to our labour market. I think it is extremely important because one is how many people come here, but another is what kind of policy we pursue when people are here. And I would much rather that refugees contribute and go to work than, for example, that they are left to passive cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133405	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen for his rounding question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133407	Thank you. I would like to say both to my good colleague, Mr President. Martin Geertsen and to the Minister for Justice that there is a great deal outside the metropolitan area, especially in northern Jutland, and there I know that the Minister also has his roots. But what we are discussing here today is, as I have said, as the question is, whether the rules of the government's large-scale tightening up on temporary protection have had the desired effect. And there I would like to acknowledge that the Minister has said that about 4%, that is 59 out of 1,606, has been affected and that it appears that a decrease in the number of entrys cannot be detected if you compare the first 2 months of 2014 with the first 2 months of 2015. The big question for the Minister of Justice is this: Does the government want to do something further, or does it in fact continue to believe that the bill put forward, the micro-tightening that has been made and the asylum framework that has been set up are enough to limit the influx of asylum to Denmark, which in 2015 will cost Danish citizens over 9.2 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133512	It could be that we should take Mr. Martin Geertsen with a trip to North Jutland, so he could see how nice there is, and then perhaps at the same time we could visit some of those who work with this in the real world. Because an incredibly large amount of work is being done, among other things. in North Jutland, to actually make things work in the real world. I would again urge the Left to look at developments, both in terms of the basis of residence, but also, of course, in relation to the number of entry, where it can be seen that there is a major decline in Denmark, also compared with our neighbouring countries. I feel that the asylum rules are such that we must constantly have a critical eye on them, and I certainly do not deny that changes will also be needed in the future. But this is our answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133602	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133608	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's position that the police around the country do not have time to look at everyday crime because of the preparedness in the wake of the terrorist attack in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133622	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133623	Now I have to say, I'm gonna take off the kid gloves a little bit. For it is unbelievable that one should get the question from a party that is helping to delay the process of adopting the act that will secure more money for Danish police in the wake of the terrorist attack in Copenhagen. For what is the situation right now in the Folketing? The situation is that we on the part of the government have put forward an act in which we want Parliament's support for two things: firstly, that more money is allocated to ensure the safety and security of our Jewish minorities in the everyday life around our Jewish premises; and secondly, that more money is allocated both to our intelligence service and to the police's general preparedness. The opposition in the Folketing can't figure out how to vote for that act. The process is being delayed, and now we must also have the debate in the Parliamentary Chamber. And while you are doing this kind of games here at Christiansborg, time goes by, and Danish police lack the money that we could allocate together. That's why my call, even if it's exciting with a discussion about Danish police in the wake of the terrorist attack, will be: Let's now get the money set aside so that Danish police can continue the high alertness and we can protect our Danish Jews in a proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133740	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133741	Thank you. I do not really think the Minister is answering my question, and that is actually what I am looking for here in today's debate. My question is what is the attitude of the government, the Minister, that the police around the country do not have time to look at everyday crime because of the terrorist attack in Copenhagen. That is the crucial question. For citizens around the country, it may well be surprising that the police stations are currently being emptied of people who will be in Copenhagen until 1 September to work here because of the terrorist attack. It is not that we in the Danish People's Party do not want police in Copenhagen to be involved in this. Of course there must be, it is absolutely necessary. But the only question is: what are we doing to prevent the rest of the police from being affected around the country, which is suffering from a lack of people? I mean, the only thing I've understood it doesn't move is the number of photocars, the new photocars; they still work around the country. But it is the case that burglar groups are being set up, that is, those who are trying to break up criminal networks in connection with burglary. You have fewer cops to solve violent crime. That is why my question to the Minister for Justice is: how many officers have they actually moved from the Zealand police circles and Funen to Copenhagen in this connection? And how long can we expect this to be the situation we have? And what is the government going to do to ensure that the holes are patched up, which, of course, gives out in the police circles in relation to the work I mention, that is to say, the clearing of break-ins, help through violent crimes and, of course, help to the victims who are subjected to violence on a daily basis? I think these are important questions which I really expect the Minister for Justice to be able to answer here in the Folketing, because I believe that a great many citizens are interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133945	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415133947	Well, when the questioner starts by asking how I, as Minister of Justice, want to ensure that the other tasks of the Danish police do not suffer unnecessarily, that there has been a terrorist attack, then the short answer is: Vote for that act. You have a Minister of Justice and that is not what you said to the questioner, but as a more general term, which is why I think I must use the word "s" which on behalf of the government has put forward a piece of paper requesting more money for Danish police so that we can do the big job. Why don't you vote for it? That's the short answer. If you want to ensure that there is enough money to be prepared by the Danish police and by the way to ensure the safety of the Jewish minority, then you have to vote in favour of that act. That is the short answer, and I would like to urge the Danish People's Party to do so as soon as possible, so that we can free up the resources for both the preparedness and our Jews.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134036	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134037	I am sure that the police would have been given the resources if it were the Danish People's Party that decided. The fact is that what the government has put forward is not sustainable at all. It does not at all cover the police in relation to the overtime hump that is being saved, and in relation to the things that are necessary • shooting exercises and other priorities to be prioritised. And that is what we have the discussion about in relation to the record: whether there is enough money. But this question I am asking is really about something quite different: what you do, whether there is money or not, to close the holes. What is being done to help citizens around the police community who have to hand officers over to Copenhagen? It's gonna have to happen no matter what. And that is where I ask the Minister for Justice and I get no answer to it: what will the Minister for Justice do to help the police community in relation to the crime that is not being solved because the Minister for Justice is not doing anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134131	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134133	Does this mean that the Danish People's Party intends to vote against that act? Does this mean that today the Danish People's Party informs the Danish Jews that you cannot be allowed to secure the synagogue and Caroline School? Does this mean that the Danish People's Party says today that no more money should be allocated to the Danish police? This is an absurd discussion we have. Of course, it has consequences for the whole country when there is a terrorist attack. We need so many police officers and have done so for a period of time that, yes, it will have some consequences. What is our task politically is to mitigate the consequences and ensure that, as far as possible, other police tasks are not affected in terms of immigration control, drug crime, gang crimes and traffic offences. But the prerequisite for us to get to work is for more money to be allocated to the Danish police here and now. That is why the question is simple: will the Danish People's Party really vote against more money being allocated to Danish police? I think we owe that answer to the Danes here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134230	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134231	On the contrary, we want more money to be allocated to the police than the Minister of Justice does. That is clearly why the government interrupted those negotiations, and we have heard nothing since from the government about that. However, I would like to say again: we are going to do so on Friday, when we have a debate on it in the Parliamentary Assembly, and there we will find out what the level should be. We want to give more money, and the government doesn't want to give that much money, and that's it. But what I am asking, and what is relevant, is: what are we doing in relation to the frustrated citizens who are experiencing, at the moment, that the police offices have been emptied locally in the police districts, so that things can be done in Copenhagen? What's the Minister of Justice doing? For example, do you want to do something like this? employ some office staff to fill the gaps in the service centres where police officers are currently doing office work? You can do that from one day to the next, for it was a commandment. Or could you let some of the police students who are currently in education take a little more away from them? Or do you want to take more people to the police school? The Minister of Justice doesn't tell us anything about that. These are the answers we want. And, of course, the Minister of Justice, like the Prime Minister, can not answer and ask questions instead. This is a Question Time and I think the Minister for Justice should answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134349	Question Time has a measured speaking time for each speech. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134353	But what the questioner says is just not right. The questioner has not, after all, tabled a motion for a resolution to be debated on Friday that more money should be allocated. What the author has tabled a motion for a resolution on is to withdraw the act which gives what I can see is that as long as the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Conservative People's Party block the act, the Danish police will have no more money. And my job is first and foremost to ensure that we can ensure that there is no new terrorist attack at all. That is why we need a continued increase in preparedness, and then we need to mitigate unnecessary consequences for the rest of the country, so that the Danish police can solve as many of the police tasks as possible. What I am saying calmly is that it requires more resources. And it is quite incomprehensible to me that the Danish People's Party, which says all the right things, does not choose to vote through the act so that the Jewish minority in Denmark can be better protected and Danish police can continue their readiness.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134452	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Food by Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134505	Thank you. The question is: does the Minister not think that it is quite unreasonable that the strict Danish regulations on fertilizers mean that in recent years there has been a fall in protein content in spring barley, so that it is constantly becoming more difficult to produce Danish beer on Danish cereal products?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134530	The Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134533	Denmark's Radio brought an article a little while ago under the heading "Løkke and Kristian Jensen" in the beer shop about this particular question because Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Kristian Jensen had said exactly the same thing as the questioner says here, namely that you cannot brew beer on Danish barley in Denmark, which is simply falsely true. In 2014 we didn't just have a good harvest of barley, many brewers have called it the best in 100 years, and beer is brewed in Denmark on Danish barley. Let me quote the brewmaster at Fuglsang: "We do not import barley. It doesn't pay us to pick up the building in France. And it doesn't make any sense either, because there's so much barley in Denmark,... So I would like to hear from the questioner what has changed since the author's presidency was poured off the board and had to admit that what they said was not right since the questioner is now again raising the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134638	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134639	After all, Question Time here is intended, firstly, for Members of Parliament to be able to put questions to government ministers and not vice versa, and I think we should stick to the Rules of Procedure on that point. Secondly, I would like to say that the Minister has apparently not listened to or read well enough what I am asking, because that is not what the Minister is now referring to, as I am asking. I asked: does the Minister not think that it is quite unreasonable that the strict Danish rules on fertilisers mean that in recent years there has been a fall in protein content in spring barley so that it is constantly becoming more difficult to produce Danish beer on Danish cereal products? I have not said anything about no beer being brewed on Danish cereal products. I am just saying that it is becoming more difficult because of the fall in protein content. That is what I am asking, and I would like an answer to that. Because agriculture is one of the largest export industries we have in Denmark and a very important part of Denmark's DNA both economically and culturally. Of course, the quality of the harvest varies from year to year, but it has been documented that there has been a fall in protein content in spring barley, and in the long term it has consequences for the production of good malt, which will be used for beer. So, in the long run, it matters. That's what I'm asking you. And there is the fact that I would like the Minister to answer whether the Minister believes that it is reasonable that the Danes may shortly have to import spring barley with sufficient protein content, so that there is no longer Danish beer produced on Danish raw materials, i.e. Danish cereal products. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134815	The Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134817	Perhaps the questioner did not really hear what I was saying. The report from the brewers was that last year's harvest of malting barley was the best in 100 years and the best in 100 years. That is why it is not a fall. When it's the best thing in 100 years, it's good. By the way, I might add that it is not the case that the protein content should be as high as possible. On the contrary, the protein content must be within a certain range, nor must it be too high. But the fact is that the Danish grain production is actually going very well compared to brewing beer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134900	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134901	This means that the Minister believes that because one year has had a good season compared with the previous 99 years, there is no problem. So the Minister rejects the problem by pointing out that a single year has not been a problem compared with the previous 99 years. Isn't that a slightly simplified or, rather, very simplified way of doing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415134927	No. That is exactly what I started by saying in my first reply, which the questioner was not satisfied with, because I was a little more general about it. I said: in general terms, the answer to the question put by the questioner here is exactly the same as the answer to the question asked by Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Kristian Jensen when they said: Is there a problem here? and where not only I as minister but also Denmark's Radio's Detector, that is under the heading "Løkke and Kristian Jensen in the beer shop," had to make it clear that it had absolutely nothing on it. I do not know whether the questioner has not seen the Left's own statement, but the Left was forced to go out and say: well, there was probably no problem anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135007	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135010	The fact is that in comparison with France, Germany and other EU countries, Danish farmers have less chance of fertilising their fields, even though they are subject to the same EU requirements for a good water environment, and this is of great importance for Danish farmers' competitiveness internationally, when the Germans, the French and others can make the grain with a better content than the Danes can. That is why Danish agriculture has a competition problem here. Does the Minister not consider this to be a problem, or does the Minister not care?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135052	The Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135052-2	I can't believe it. Now is the third or fourth time that I say: No, I do not think it is a problem because it is objectively not a problem. The questioner may not have heard what I said when I quoted the brewmaster from Fuglsang, who says that it is not worthwhile for them to pick up the building in France. The questioner refers to France because they have it in Denmark. I can also quote the brewer from Valsemøllen, and he says that up to 80%. of their wheat, that is, the one they use to make wheat beer from Denmark, and that they only use first class quality. So no, no matter how many times the questioner asks, water doesn't start running up the wall, water runs down the wall. Well, we have good quality grain to brew beer off in Denmark, and we even export some of that grain to brew beer off to other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135144	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135150	Now for something completely different. The question is: does the Minister agree with the Socialist political rapporteur, Maja Panduro, that it is not true that the government has given refugee families with three children DKK 10,000? more per month, and why, under ministerial responsibility, the Minister has stated that the refugee family would receive DKK 330,305 together with the applicable rules in 2011. per year corresponding to DKK 27,525. monthly in cash benefits, housing insurance, child and youth benefits, etc. equivalent to 37,851 kr. monthly, i.e. DKK 10,326, and here's another mistake, because it's supposed to be $10,076 more every month?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135241	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135243	I think the way it was read out here clearly demonstrates that there are a lot of figures swirling around in the air. That's why you can get a little confused if you don't keep your tongue straight in your mouth. Refugee families and this is now a confirmation with three children, where both parents are on cash benefits, will receive DKK 454,215 in 2014. annual in cash benefits, children's and young people's benefits, housing insurance and allowances for day care. In 2011, the previous government introduced a particularly low introduction fee for new arrivals. This meant that a refugee family with three children, both parents on cash benefits, could receive a total of 333,305 DKK. Each year, the equivalent of approx. 10,000 kroner. less a month than they will get with the current rules today. The 10,000 kroner. I believe that Mrs Maja Panduro has tried to explain this, namely that the refugee family in question also has to pay taxes, and that the real difference for the family is therefore approx. 4800 kr. per month.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135357	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135400	I therefore agree with the Minister that one might get a little confused. That could also be what has happened to the Socialist political rapporteur in this case. The reason we're discussing these things is because there's a fundamental disagreement between the four bourgeois parties and then the government and its support parties about the wisdom of having given an ordinary refugee family 10,000 kroner. more a month. Basically, in my view, there are at least three reasons why this has been a bad idea. Firstly, because we know that conditions mean something to the extent of the influx to our country. In other words, if you have more favourable economic conditions in Denmark compared with other countries, people will naturally seek the Danish border as an asylum seeker, so this obviously has an impact on the influx. Secondly, we know, and I know that the government also recognizes in all sorts of other areas that encouragement to work also has something to do with the cash benefits system. And there everything else will be equal, the higher the benefits you receive, the less incentive there is to get to work. Thirdly, I think you can actually ask yourself the basic question: is it reasonable that as soon as you get a residence permit in Denmark, you get the same cash benefits as people who have lived here all their lives? In any case, I think we can seriously question it. However, my question here was whether the Minister would agree that the political rapporteur for the Socialists speaks against better knowledge when she travels around the political landscape and says that it is not true that the government has given an ordinary refugee family with three children 10,000 kroner. more a month.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135602	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135604	Sir. Martin Geertsen needed three reasons. I can confine myself to one reason why the government has done what it has done, namely that we do not want poor families and children in Denmark. You can disagree with that. You might think it's okay that there may be something that looks like little 3,000 children growing up in real poverty. But the government does not think so, and then there is real political disagreement, and that is quite right. That's one of them. It's something you decide when there's an election campaign and stuff like that. So that is the real disagreement, and I am very happy to stand by it. The second is that it would also be fine if we could then clarify what the Left meant, among other things. about the modern cash aid ceiling and things like that. But we can come back to that on another occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135646	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135647	Well, the reason why we are a little interested today in the political rapporteur of the Socialists and now the minister has not been here throughout the debate today is that, in this way, we see a pattern in that, on the one hand, the government answers under ministerial responsibility what the government has to answer to the members of parliament when they ask questions either here in Question Time or in writing, and, on the other hand, the Socialist rapporteur raises messages that are simply not correct. And does the Minister not agree that if we are going to have a factual discussion and then there may be disagreements, then one has to say things as the right ones are, in public space?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135729	The Socialists are fortunate enough to have a good political rapporteur, and I am very pleased about that myself. And the point in this debate is that there are two figures that are correct, namely 10,000 kroner, with which we have increased the benefits, and 4800 kroner, which is left when you have paid the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135746	Sir. Martin Geertsen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135748	Now I am not going to interfere in internal social democratic matters, but it is just incredibly difficult to have a substantive debate with the Socialist rapporteur when he repeatedly claims that it is not true that this government has given an ordinary refugee family 10,000 kroner. more a month. Does the Minister not agree that it is then problematic to hold a substantive political debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135815	It is quite true that this government has wanted to avoid having poor children in Denmark, and that is why we have increased the benefits by DKK 10,000. a month. This means that there are 4,800 DKK available.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135824	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135831	If the Minister agrees with the political rapporteur of the Social Democrats, Maja Panduro, that government policy has not resulted in a refugee family with three children receiving public benefits of DKK 10,000. More a month, what amount does the Minister think would be more accurate?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135844	One of the very first things the government did when it arrived was to abolish the poverty benefits that we were discussing just now, because it affects the children, and that is why the right amount is, of course, the current amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135854	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135855	Then the Minister and I will at least agree that 10,000 kroner. more a month is the correct amount. We shall ensure that this issue is included on tape, as it was said in the old days, and use it in the debates we have with the Socialist rapporteur on these issues. If we go half a spade into the substance of this, I really think it would be interesting to have the Minister say something about whether the Minister thinks that, when you have given an ordinary refugee family 10,000 kroner. more a month, may have an impact on whether Denmark is a more or a less attractive country to apply to as an asylum seeker. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415135943-2	I am very pleased that you want to record what I am saying here. I promise you, I'll record what Mr. Martin Geertsen says here if he reveals what modern cash aid is, because that is what is required for us to have a proper, real debate. The government has clearly put forward its policy, there is nothing to be mistaken about. The Left doesn't. So when we're gonna have that real debate, like Mr. Martin Geertsen calls for at least a policy to be put forward by the Left, which they have not done. But I look forward to that, and I promise one hundred percent that the day it happens, it will also be recorded on tape so that we can have the real debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140018	Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140019	But I don't care if I say $229,475. or I say 401.326 kr., the Minister knows very well that the direction that the Left has taken in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits is, in fact, that it must be lower, as long as it is worthwhile to work. So, regardless of whether the Minister knows that figure or not, I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that today's ceiling on cash benefits is adequate with all the benefits included?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140054-2	It says on the wall in the Walking Hall that you have to hear what the birds say, I say that to the opening. Perhaps I was just beginning to think that the answer from Mr. Martin Geertsen in this debate was that it was the old ceiling on cash benefits, because the amount mentioned did not quite correspond to what was the old ceiling on cash benefits, but it was close to that. So, of course, it's a little exciting. The government has been very clear. One of the first things we did was to remove the start-up aid and the restrictions imposed by the previous government, with the main argument that we do not want poor children in Denmark. That's the way it is. The government's policy has been laid out openly and clearly. Now, of course, we need only the policy of the Left in order to have the debate in which I would very much like to take part and in which Mr. Martin Geertsen is looking for you. But it just takes the Left to get on the ground too and become a little more precise, not to say much more precise.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140143	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140144	I was very kind to the Minister there, and of course I should not have been. So let me come back to the question that I actually asked the Minister. Does the Minister believe that the fact that an ordinary refugee family has been given 10,000 kroner? more a month, has Denmark become a more or less attractive asylum country for asylum seekers to apply for?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140210	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140211	I believe that we have prevented thousands of children from growing up in real poverty and from having something that is a decent, sensible child life with children's birthdays, leisure activities and such things. And I just want to say, I'm pretty happy that this government has managed to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140231	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Health and the Prevention of Mr. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140238	Thank you for the floor, sir. President, and thank the Minister for the attendance. I have a question which I would like to start by reading: Does the Minister believe that the citizens of Central Jutland should be able to expect, for example, that: a wheelchair user with osteoporosis without walking and standing function, who in December at night falls drunk out of the wheelchair and splits the eyebrow, has severe bleeding, gets a big dent in the forehead and breaks his arm, cannot get the help of an ambulance, but instead has to wait for a wheelchair taxi, which comes after 32 minutes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140329	If the question to me is whether the citizens of our country, including Central Jutland, are entitled to the necessary help if they become acutely ill or have an accident, then the answer is yes! The citizens of this country must, in my opinion, be able to bring an ambulance and to the doctor and hospital when they need it, and they must be able to do so without having money out of their pockets. For me, it is the epitome of the security of our welfare society that we all enjoy as citizens. It is a security that you can have and manage if you like. start to talk about the need for a user fee when visiting a doctor or if you impair the service. Is the question also about a specific case for a citizen in Central Jutland, and I sense that, as the question is put, the answer is that I only know the specific case from the media, from the mention that has been made. In general terms, it must be said that this is the responsibility of the regions, so when a citizen calls 112, the police will forward the request for sickness to the region's watch centre, and here a concrete health assessment will be made of the need for help from the individual citizen who is addressing himself. But it is therefore a concrete health assessment, which help is needed in this particular case, and therefore it is not possible for me to assess whether the person to whom the question refers should have offered transport by ambulance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140513	Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140515	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Now this isn't about user charges at all. That is not what has been proposed at all, because I think that both the Minister and I could agree that there is no user charge, nor in the ambulance service. The question here is used as an example. It is true that it comes from a specific situation, as confirmed by the Minister, but it has actually been used as an example, for there have been several such examples for the past time. In this specific case, where it's sketched out what's happened, it goes about. 2 months after the police have forwarded a complaint to the Central Denmark Region before an answer is received from the Central Denmark Region, where the answer begins by confirming that this has happened and the things I have just mentioned here have happened, but that it has been estimated that you can safely drive to the emergency room in a taxi and then it will come because the wheelchair taxia could be faster than an ambulance because of the bustle. Does the Minister believe that a wheelchair taxi can get to a patient faster than an ambulance when the wheelchair taxi actually arrived after 32 minutes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140629	I can understand the questioner, especially because the questioner has been elected in the area, that it is interesting to discuss the specific case and relate to the specific case. But those who have to deal with the specific case are the Central Denmark Region and not me as Minister for Health, since I do not have the tools to decide how the service is to be performed. What I think I can say as a minister is that the security of knowing that we have an ambulance service, an emergency service that ensures that you need help, you get the help you need, is what matters to me as a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140711	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140713	Now I am actually here with a table showing the situations that arise when you dispose of an ambulance, and they have different colors: Red is the worst, and green is the least bad, and so here completely off the table it says that driving E is a taxi. So that's how it's graduated. In principle, from what we see here and from what we have previously heard the prehospital leader in Central Jutland say, one can only get an ambulance when it is life-threatening or possible life-threatening. So driving B, driving C, driving D is obviously what one refers to a taxi in the future in Central Jutland. So I ask: does the Minister believe that taxi will in future replace ambulances in all cases other than driving A? How does the Minister think that a taxi driver should be able to help a patient in such a serious state? Is that safe? What about the cold effect? What about the risk of internal bleeding in the head? What about the consequences of lack of pulse in the wrist? And that's how I could go on and on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140818	I have great respect for these Wednesday issues, but it is not fair to come up with a schedule and at 7 m's distance ask me to relate to what is in red, yellow and green on that table. I would very much, very much like to answer the question, insofar as it does not relate to a specific case, but I cannot answer it then at least I shall have some better glasses than the glasses I do not have at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140848	Sir. Finn Thranum, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140850	I have a great deal of respect for our Minister for Health, but it has to be said that if, in answering this question, the Minister for Health has not been made aware of that schedule, because that is the essence of my question, namely exactly when the Danes can expect the help of a taxi or ambulance in this society. I can just wonder a lot about that, and I'm thinking that I'm rounding it off there because everything else would be unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140930	However, when I do not know the table, it is precisely as the questioner also says, because it is a table drawn up by those responsible for the region, namely the region, and it is of course the region and the politicians in the region who have to deal with how that service is to be provided. What I think there is reason to hold on to here from us is that you have to be sure that if you need an ambulance, there is an ambulance available and that it is not something you have to pay for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415140955	The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Health and the Prevention of Mr. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141003	Thank you. I am reading Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9 up: How long does the Minister think it is reasonable for a citizen to wait before assessing whether they will deal with a complaint, and how long, in the view of the Minister, will the processing period be reasonable in an uncomplicated case such as the one I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141030	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141031	As the questioner is probably aware, there are currently too long processing times in the Patient Offers. The length of the proceedings must be reduced, even when it comes to more uncomplicated cases, which the questioner describes as this case. The fact that there are challenges with the processing times has also been demonstrated by the evaluation of the patient complaint system carried out by COWI, which is why I have asked the Patient Offer to draw up an action plan containing initiatives to reduce the processing times. In relation to the initial case steps mentioned in the question, it is clear to me that, as a general rule, the Patient Offer is relatively quick to clarify whether a case can be dealt with or not. In this case, the Patient Offers shall decide whether the complainant is entitled to appeal, whether the complaint falls within the competence of the Patient Offer or the Disciplinary Board and whether the case is obsolete. The patient offer has informed the Ministry that in the first quarter of 2015 there has been an average processing time of 25 days to make the initial case steps here. I do not think it is appropriate to suggest exactly what the time of the proceedings should be. Why not? This is because the processing time has to depend on the complexity of the case and will depend on the complexity of the case. That's the way it has to be. However, when I have asked the Patient Offer to draw up an action plan for the reduction of processing times, it is, of course, because I believe that the processing times are generally too high. I think it is essential in this context to set and work according to objectives which are both ambitious, taking into account that long processing times can be a burden on patients, can be a burden on health professionals, can be a burden on the caregivers and realistic, so that it is also taken into account that the fast progress must be made, of course, not at the expense of the quality of the procedure to be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141237	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141238	Thank you for your answer. I would just like to take the last thing the Minister mentioned first, namely that it is expected that the Patient Offer will spend up to 25 days. They do not necessarily have to do so to assess whether they will deal with the complaint that has come in. In the case that I am describing here, a reply has come back from the Patient Offer on 5 March, 10 days after you have asked. The Minister himself knows what date we have today, so we are at least up to something of 50 days at this time, and no answer has yet been given as to whether the Patient Offer will deal with the matter. So that means that there is twice as long a time limit for replying, and perhaps longer than the one that the Minister is just describing not for the proceedings, but only for the purposes of assessing whether or not to deal with the matter. Does the Minister think that's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141336	What I said was not about the specific case. What I said was that the Patient Offer to the Ministry has stated that in the first quarter of 2015 there has been an average of 25 days to make the initial steps. This means, of course, that if there are some cases where the duration of the proceedings has been longer, there are of course also some where the duration of the proceedings has been shorter. I also think it is worth noting that the evaluation that we have carried out by the patient complaint system shows that the possibility of dialogue meetings is seen positively, that there are clearly better redress opportunities and that there is easier access to redress, but unfortunately there are also too long processing times, not least because there are many more complaints than were the case in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141422	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141423	After all, this is a specific, ongoing case which is being assessed and which has taken 50 days for the time being. When, in my view, it happens that the Patient Complaints Board has to say that they want to deal with this, then they have to deal with the matter for some time. We know that in 2012 the processing time was approx. 10.3 months, and we know that in 2013 it was 13.3 months. I have heard that the Minister says that we are working to improve it and would like to have a goal for it, but does the Minister not think that it is the wrong way to go up to one year, from the point of view that we are going to deal with it until we really have an answer to it in a relatively uncomplicated case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141511	I said at the outset that it is not satisfactory that the duration of proceedings is so long. And I also said that I have asked for an action plan to bring down the processing time. This naturally raises the question of what the questioner's own party will do in a situation where there is a prospect of the Danes being in the unfortunate situation that there was a change of government that this will also be a zero growth area, i.e. an area in which there will at least be no possibility of deploying additional resources to ensure that the processing time is shorter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141544	Sir. Finn Thranum, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141546	As far as I am concerned, it is incomprehensible that the matter should be dealt with after one year when, when it is uncomplicated, it could be dealt with relatively quickly. It's kind of hard to understand. It is like, if you want to save the interest for 1 month on a credit; you still have to pay for it afterwards. I do not understand it.But I am glad that the Minister says that work is being done on it and that an objective is being set. Has the Patient Offer been given a deadline for when the Minister gets an answer to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141618	Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141618-2	Following on from the evaluation that has been carried out, I have asked for an action plan to be drawn up that could bring down these too long processing times, and hard work is being done to ensure that knowledge of what it is that is needed for this to happen, i.e. what it is for some funds to be put into use. One of the things you are doing is doing such a workflow analysis, which will be carried out up to May 2015, i.e. an analysis of what sort of work is involved in a case, so that we can analyse what can be changed in order to bring down the processing time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141659	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Industry and Growth by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141710	Thank you for that, President. My question to the Minister is this: what is the Minister's explanation for the fact that paragraph 37 of the growth package, "Analysis of the possibilities for crowdfunding', has not yet been published despite the expected publication deadline by the end of 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141731	Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141733	Thank you. Crowdfunding can be an important alternative source of funding for entrepreneurs and small businesses, and therefore it was decided, of course, also in the context of the growth package in 2014 that it should be considered whether the existing legislation contains barriers to the use of crowdfunding in Denmark. And the goal was that the analysis of the possibilities of crowdfunding in Denmark should be completed by the turn of the year. We have not quite achieved this in my ministry; however, we are still working to complete the analysis. I would like to stress that I think it is important that we clarify the regulatory framework for various forms of crowdfunding in Denmark. It is also important that we look at whether there are barriers to crowdfunding in Denmark and that we address the possible barriers. I expect the analysis to be published shortly. The government will therefore follow up any recommendations to promote the use of crowdfunding in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141825	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141826	Thank you for that to the Minister. After all, the Minister and I are in complete agreement that this is an important area. That is also why we have reached an agreement on this and, as a matter of fact, if not hand in hand, then at least politically, we are heading in the same direction. And my question really is also about my wonder that it has taken time. I understand that there is a need to carry out a more detailed analysis; I also understand that it is highly complicated matter which cannot be changed from day to day. But maybe the minister can help me get a little smarter. I have been in contact with the professions that are interested in this, and they are actually happy to announce that two out of three areas are considered to be well illustrated. What remains is what is called stock crowdfunding, i.e. an equity part, and that is also what poses the greatest challenges. The Minister's colleague, the Minister for Taxation, has published a guide on the SKAT's view of the matter actually quite recently, which is why it is only the minister's officials that we need to hear. And when I ask, it's because we're being overtaken a little bit. At the beginning of April, the US authorities published a guide which now means that in retail terms, in other words, individual investors can invest in stock crowdfunding, and in Britain they have been able to do so for well over a year. So when the Minister says that this is happening in a short time, I will be extremely satisfied, and then I only hope that the Minister may be able to motivate his officials to finish as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415141957	Well again: I don't think there's any idea-political disagreement that it could be a really good thing to get this new element into funding for companies in Denmark. Well, when we offer some assignments, we sometimes make an estimate. Most times it holds; there are also sometimes where it doesn't last, i.e. where uncertainty arises or something else. And I actually feel like I'd rather be late than publish something that's wrong, so that's why I've been a little late. But in short time I think you can put it down that it will be short.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142043	Of course I am...) Yes, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142044	Thank you. And I apologize for interrupting the President-in-Office of the Council, which is not so polite. But, of course, I am glad to hear that. My interest is also due to the fact that there are a great many start-up Danish companies that want to make use of this alternative source of funding. The Minister knows just as well as I do that it can be difficult to find capital and that banks are often less cooperative than we politicians could hope for. That is why I just want crowdfunding to be made available as soon as possible. But could the Minister perhaps tell us a little about some of the challenges we are facing here in Parliament? I assume that it has taken a little extra time because you have come across some things you could not solve right away. Can the Minister tell us what the situation is?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142123	I would very much like to explain all the difficulties encountered in defining and defining the whole thing. I think that the questioner himself has raised something about the different types of crowdfunding and that having them categorized correctly and having them properly described is one of the challenges that, of course, poses a challenge. That's the way it is. I would just like to say briefly that I share all the ambition that this financing tool can be used and used as soon as possible, and that is why something will come from us shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142200	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142203	Yes, but I feel no need for anything but to thank the Minister for that announcement. Hopefully we will be able to join together in welcoming the fact that the smallest companies will have another financial tool made available, and that will have to be the end of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142215	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Industry and Growth by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142225	Thank you. My question, because I do not think the Minister should be cheated on an extra discussion when he has come down here, is this: what challenges does the Minister see for the use of crowdfunding in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142237	Yes, as mentioned here under the previous question, my ministry is completing a work on and an analysis of crowdfunding in Denmark, which among other things. help identify any barriers to crowdfunding in Denmark and make recommendations to address them. However, it is generally my impression that there are no real legislative barriers to crowdfunding in Denmark. Rather, the challenges appear to be a limited knowledge of the rules in force and of crowdfunding as an alternative source of funding. That is why we will initiate an awareness-raising effort involving relevant organisations. I would also point out that SKAT has published a guide on the tax rules for crowdfunding which is available on their website. Then I finally announced last week that I am in favour of extending the Growth Fund growth guarantee scheme to Crowdfunding platforms. However, it is important to bear in mind here that the system that exists for banks cannot be copied directly to the crowdfunding platforms. My ministry, together with the Growth Fund, is looking at how such a model can be drawn up in concrete terms, and once this work has been completed, we will follow this up in order to support the entire use and use of crowdfunding in Denmark again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142400	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142401	Well, it turns out to be a quite enjoyable meeting that the Minister and I have in the Chamber today, and I am only in favour of that, especially the last about growth guarantee, one should almost think that the Minister had looked at my speech paper. It is extremely positive that you can transfer that principle to the crowdfunding platforms that can be used, and I am sure that it will benefit a great many smaller companies. The Danish Businesses recently published an analysis that shows that last year almost 18 billion was obtained on a global scale. dollar in connection with crowdfunding, and several Danish companies have actually been identified using foreign platforms. And that is precisely why it is so important to me and many others that we move quickly here at home. I also think that some of this ignorance is due to the fact that we have not had a culture in this country to use private funds to invest in small businesses. This is not something we have done in the past; it is not something I have been brought up with, and it is probably not something the Minister has been brought up with, and therefore there is a common political task, I think, in which we recommend to the Danes that this is also possible. I am actually pleased that the Minister says that the Ministry, together with the relevant organisations, will go out and make an information campaign, and I hope that will, of course, have the necessary effect. Has the Minister given any thought to the extent to which future financing of companies can come from crowdfunding? Is there any ambition in this area, or is it too early to say anything about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142537	With regard to the last part of the question, I would like to say that the market must show to what extent there is an interest in it. If we have such good and fine experiences from abroad, why not also here in Denmark? The fact that you don't have to make a big and substantial investment, but perhaps a small investment, may well be something that might tempt, I think, like, first or at the end of the month, depending on temperament, if you want to invest a little. I myself have been aware that there are some of the more foreign-related crowdfunding projects where there is an opportunity to contribute quite small amounts as well. I myself believe that to some extent I am co-owner of a barber shop somewhere in Africa, but I haven't really followed in how it goes. But it may also be more of a donation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142634	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142637	Yes, and then we have to hope that there are a little fewer bald people like the last two inquirers in the minister's hair salon in Africa. But that sounds quite reasonable. I myself see the area as having the potential to become a new form of cooperative movement, where people who are interested in and believe in new businesses can help to set it in motion. That is why, of course, it is also important that there is the necessary consumer protection and information, but it is also important that we do not regulate too hard and too much, and that is one of the things that I look forward to working with the Minister on. Thank you for the answers given by the Minister and I welcome the progress made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142709	That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142723	Thank you, President. The Minister can sit down calmly or will the Minister remain standing? I have asked the Minister this question: how far has the Minister come with the work to ensure that Bornholm has the necessary reserve capacity so that Bornholm can still be sailed away under bad weather and in the event of a breakdown of ferries?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142747	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142749	Thank you for the question. In the autumn a broad majority of the Parliament also included the author's party, the Left, an agreement on the future ferry service of Bornholm. It was, I think, an agreement that reflected the art of the possible, where rising costs and also Bornholm's wishes for example. price reductions were to be maintained against the financial framework. Subsequently, the ferry agreement has given rise to dissatisfaction on Bornholm. Following this dissatisfaction, I visited Bornholm in the spring; I had several meetings with Bornholmers in various associations and, of course, politicians from Bornholm on the matter. And I have also noted that dissatisfaction is very much centred on a desire that there should continue to be a substitute ferry. And I must say that is a matter that I would very much like to help solve. That is why I have said, and I will also repeat it today, that there will be a stage two in the negotiations on the future ferry service. I have also said that the prerequisite for this is, among other things, the need. is that we know to what extent the conciliation circle behind the agreement on a growth package decides to accommodate Bornholm when they translate the remaining funds into the growth package. I can inform the questioner that, of course, I have also discussed the matter in depth with my fellow ministers, including, of course, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and the government will support the priority given to funding for Bornholm in this regard. I will call the conciliation circle for a further discussion of the ferry settlement as soon as there is a clarification of the possibility of obtaining additional funds for Bornholm and thus a basis for really discussing how we can strengthen the conciliation, and I hope to be able to do so in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142952	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415142954	Thank you. The reason for my question is, of course, that the freight ferry • Hammerodde • to Køge suffered an injury to its screw, which means that if the speed ferry cannot sail, and it cannot sometimes because of too high waves in the Baltic Sea, Denmark is cut off from Bornholm. This is an unfortunate situation which the Minister will not, of course, be able to offer the Danes. Of course, it is also a matter of concern at Bornholm that we can look forward to a future settlement without a replacement ferry, and that is also why the Left has sent the Minister a friendly e-mail asking the Minister to look in particular at the substitute ferry so that the Minister can call the conciliation circle. I can hear that the Minister has taken the lead, and of course there is great pleasure in that. But when can I expect, when can I report to Bornholm, that the Minister intends to convene the conciliation circle? The near future is simply not good enough, Minister. Is it in six months' time, or is it in a month's time, or when does the Minister expect to convene the conciliation circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143058	I'm familiar with pretty detailed even, I'd say, the Hammerodde's accident and how it affects ferry operations. I know that the replacement ferry has been used in that situation. That is why I also said in my reply here today that I am working hard to resolve the situation and to meet the desire, which is one of several wishes on Bornholm, to improve the existing conciliation with a stage 2 to be added. A great many parties have been out saying a great many things, and I have, of course, been able to observe that. That's the way it is, and you have to do it. I have also observed that there are no parties that have come up with additional funds. I think it is my job to find them and then call when the extra funds are on the table, and I look forward to doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143145	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143146	I very much agree with the Minister, and it is in fact the Left that additional funds are needed to meet the challenge of a replacement ferry. But it is not the large amounts we are talking about here if you are to see it in relation to the amounts that the Minister is used to rolling over the desk. So I wonder if we can't solve that challenge in a common front too. I also believe that funding can be found and the Left will go a long way to secure this reserve capacity. So the Minister can bring that back. It was the one thing that left out in the settlement. The second thing is that with the settlement, IC Bornholm, that is, the train running between Ystad and Copenhagen Central Station, is closed. In the conciliation circle we have agreed that an agreement should be made with the Swedish company, which is called "In real Swedish." How are those negotiations going? Can we expect a review of the negotiations with the President-in-Office of the Council at the conciliation meeting envisaged by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143246	Yeah, we can do that when we know the frame. And I am very, very pleased that the Left here today says that they will help to find additional funds. I hope this applies not only to the honourable Member elected at Bornholm, but also to the rest of the party, because you also sit and have to distribute it among other places. So I also hope that it stands. And if it does, then it's possible to find this solution. I have to say that my ambition is high and I think that the objections raised by Bornholm are entirely justified and relevant, both in terms of the replacement ferry, but also in terms of getting as far down as possible with regard to the ticket price. It is something that will be able to attract tourists to such an extent. To the last train: Yes, of course there will be a status for it. It is clear that this should be considered in a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143343	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143345	Then I and the Left have come to hear what we would like to hear from the Minister today, and we look forward, of course, to the forthcoming discussions in the conciliation circle. And then I really appreciate it too, the Minister should know that as a politician, when you're doing something that's not so good, and you realize that it's a bad thing, you have the political courage to do things better. That is why the Left sent the e-mail to the Minister that we would like to see the conciliation circle recalled so that a better settlement could be reached for the Bornholmers. From here we must pay tribute to the Minister, and let us hope that the forthcoming work in the conciliation circle can continue in the same spirit, so that we can find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143429	Well, I would very much like to sign for that, because I see it as a perfectly common task to find solutions here. It is, of course, the responsibility of the government to have the right to play, and that is to find the means to do so. It's kind of the work I'm doing. I am aware of this by nature, as the questioner knows, because he is so experienced in politics that he does not go out and talk about it at every meeting that you have been to and in the places where it is now happening. But I can just say that we're working hard for it. I think it is the case of all the parties that put their backs on the conciliation that we will all find opportunities to improve it in the areas where the Bornholmers have discussed things and raised quite justified criticisms and demands to improve it. That is what I am working hard on, and the whole government is working hard for it. As soon as we have a result, I look forward to convening negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143524	That was the last answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, so I say thank you to Mr. Peter Juel Jensen and thank the Minister for Transport. We move on to the tax minister, and that is Question No. 13, and the question to the tax minister is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143539	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143544	The question is: does the Minister consider it reasonable that a decision on the advertising tax has not yet been taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143552	Thank you for the question. Let me start by stating once again that, of course, I understand very well that the companies that will be affected by a possible advertising tax need clarification. That is why I am also working to ensure that an announcement can be made as soon as possible. At the same time, however, I must repeat that, when we are in the course of a debate, there are various things that need to be clarified, and that is what we are doing. So the negotiations have not yet been concluded, but when we are ready to make a statement, companies will, of course, have time to adjust to it. The political discussions on the advertising tax are due, inter alia, to: criticism from the business community of the advertising tax. It is a criticism that the government has listened to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143639	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143641	As I understood it, negotiations were convened in January. January has gone and February has gone and March has gone, and now we are in April, so these must be difficult negotiations. There are therefore people out there who are very concerned about whether the advertising tax will be introduced, and they are also concerned about how long they will be given if it is introduced, because there will be a need to make staff redundant. After all, most employees have relatively long notice periods, so one cannot arrange one's printing business overnight on the introduction of the advertising tax. The uncertainty in which we are currently living makes it difficult for companies to make investments. Should they stay in Denmark, should they move out, should they drosle down, should they completely shut down? In other words, it is a very difficult situation in which the tax minister puts the companies concerned in when the negotiations have not been concluded at this stage. But now I heard that the tax minister promised that companies would have time to adapt. I think this is a good thing, because a former tax minister has said that companies will have a period of six months, since the tax was notified by the EU and the six months have passed. That would then mean that if the words of the former tax minister are believed, the tax can be introduced the day after it has been published in the Official Journal. But I heard the Minister say that the companies will be given time to adapt. I would like to make that clear a little more clearly: how long will the companies be allowed to adapt if they end up introducing the advertising tax, what I naturally hope they will not do? I hope that it will not be introduced, of course. But if the worst happens now, how long will the companies have to adapt to the new tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143847	It is clear that if this is what the questioner hopes it is, then of course some time will also be allowed. It is not the case that there is a complete reflection on this. It is not, in fact, a reflection that I have thought about yet. I am concerned about the negotiations that are currently taking place, and it is clear that once those negotiations have been concluded, there will also be an announcement of what is going to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143918	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143920	Can we have an idea of whether the negotiations will be concluded before or after an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415143929	After all, only the Prime Minister knows when elections will be held in Denmark. I can tell you it's not a job that's under my command. It would be weird if it were the tax minister's lot. But I can at least say so much that, of course, I am working to ensure that we can get a fairly quick clarification of this, without there being any indication in it of when there can be parliamentary elections in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144002	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144003	I don't know what that means in the Minister's terminology. In other words, negotiations have now been held since January and nothing has yet been achieved, so rather rapid clarification is a broad concept. But there are some people who have had the idea that I have not said that I have been trying to, what should we say, play bucks on to the tax minister who may sit after an election, so that you may in fact speculate that there will not be any clarification in the conciliation circle. I would like to know whether the Minister of Taxation can deny that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144046	At least I can reassure Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says that, of course, I go hard to be the tax minister after the election of the Parliament and, as such, also after the subsequent parliamentary elections. There are only two things that stand in the way of this. One is that it should fall to the Prime Minister's liking to re-point me and I would consider that a great honour and the other is that the voters should also agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144114	Yes, we did not clarify when elections will be held, even today. But that was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party That doesn't change the composition, because it's still gone, the tax minister, and it's still gone, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, who asks the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144127	Yes. And the question is: does the Minister find it satisfactory that the chocolate chain Frellsen expects to close more shops as a direct consequence of unfair competition from illegal candy dealers?
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144138	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to stress that, of course, I cannot comment on individual cases or on the situation of specific companies. I will therefore answer the question in more general terms. There should be no doubt that I find it unacceptable when companies cheat on the payment of taxes and in this way, because they cheat, expose law-abiding companies to unfair competition. It is therefore important for SKAT to take action against illegal imports and illegal trade in sweets and other excise goods, and for infringements to be punished subsequently, so that everyone competes on equal terms. So a clear no from here to the fundamental question of whether it is satisfactory if shops should close because of unfair competition from illegal trade. The experience of SKAT's action projects is that there is something to be done in this area, which is in line with the opinions of the director of the industry to which the questioner refers. Having said that, I do not believe that the solutions that have been suggested in the debate are real solutions, namely that a change in the level of taxation or the tightening of sanctions in the legislation should be able to solve the problem of a snap. Firstly, the tax guarantees revenue for the Treasury which, by lowering taxes, must be financed from elsewhere. In addition, the charges aim to get us Danes to generally buy a little less chocolate, sweets and other sugar products, which contains an independent health policy point. Thirdly, there are today a number of sanctions from so-called Coke fines for fines equivalent to the evaded tax, and even potential sentences for freedom, and these tools must be used. The solution must therefore be found through SKAT's efforts, and the fight against illegal trade in candy is one of SKAT's focus areas here in 2015. SKAT will include: strengthen efforts in this area through several controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144343	Yeah. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144345	The tax minister was right if Denmark was an island that was secluded from the outside world, but now I am aware that the tax minister is from Jutland and is quite gifted and is therefore aware that Jutland is land-fast with Germany and for that matter China. This means that it is relatively easy to buy candy in countries where there is no tax level like the Danish one. The Swedish tax level is also much lower than the Danish tax level. So it is relatively easy to buy candy in countries where taxes are far, far lower than in Denmark. The candy bought in Sweden and Germany and sold illegally in Denmark does not give any revenue to the Treasury. I think we can agree on that. After all, it does not result in any reduction in consumption. There have never been so many candy shops in the Copenhagen area where I myself travel, which now and with prices as low as DKK 6-7. for 100 grams of candy. It is not something that leads to a reduction in consumption; on the contrary, it leads to an increase in consumption. So it is true that in such a theoretical world, where Denmark was separated from the rest of Europe, it would be correct. However, when there are different levels of taxation, that is not correct. It does not generate any additional revenue, and it does not mean less consumption, because quite a lot is being done illegally. However, I understand that the Minister of Taxation will not do anything about the level of taxation, but will then mention the control effort and mention here the possibility of impunity. How many of these candy dealers have gone to jail? What are the penalties? Is that something these candy dealers have a real fear of? For the fact that the tax minister is saying here today that it is a focus area, I do not think they are really getting nervous.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144552	It is almost a pity that we could not also have some of these excellent questions yesterday, as we had a review of the border trade report in the Tax Committee, but that is what it is. What is important here, of course, is to remember that there are two places where control efforts can be made. There are, of course, stores, it gives itself. As the questioner rightly says, there are quite a lot of these shops, and there are also some of them where you can really wonder about the price level. But what is most interesting is of course to look at where the supplies then come from, and it is relatively well organized, as I can understand. That's why it's most interesting to go after the backers of the wholesaler. It is also where efforts are mainly being made now that I can see from the President that my speaking time has been exhausted, but it is at least where it is particularly important that we make an effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144652	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144653	Well, I asked one specific question: how many of these people have been sentenced to freedom, and what is the level of punishment? I didn't hear the tax minister answer that. Is this something that is being taken seriously? Is this something that triggers the punishment of freedom, is it something that triggers very large fines? The only thing I can see, and all the Frellse can see, is that their turnover is falling, and the rest of us can see that virtually every time there is an empty store room, there opens a store with mix self-sweets with a price level that is so low that it is not possible to sell at a profit when you do not have other goods on the shelves. There aren't any swings and carousels. The only thing they sell is candy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144736	I am also glad that I just got the opportunity to continue here, because some of the results that we have for 2014 I would like to touch on a few points. If we look at the wholesaler, we see that last year's wholesaler control triggered a post-payment of approx. 32 million kr. in taxes. In addition, criminal proceedings are involved. I do not have the actual outcome of those criminal proceedings for 2014 yet, but there may be both the penalty of liberty and fines. Of course, it is only after such cases have been concluded that one can decide what the penalty will be. In addition, the retail trade, and in the retail trade, checks were triggered last year after payment of charges of approx. 9 million kr. Finally, there was a control of private individuals, which also involved a small afterpayment. So controls have been carried out broadly in several stages, and there are also a number of pending cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144841	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144842	So I just want to ask you about the tax minister's time horizon: when will we see an effect of the focus that SKAT has on this matter? What can I say to the Frellsen Coffee and the Frellsen Chocolate? What should they expect, when will there be an effect of the efforts described by the tax minister and which the tax minister would like to be allowed to continue after the elections? I must agree with the tax minister that it will probably be easier to imagine if the Prime Minister continues to be Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144922	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415144923	I think so too, so we can at least agree entirely on the latter. However, I would also like to say that it is clear that when SKAT increases its efforts in 2014, it is precisely for others. to be able to return to some of the places where there have already been challenges both at the wholesale level and also in the retail sector. And we will do so in such a way that we also give priority to the resources that we then use in the control, so that we proceed more systematically when, for example, we do so. checks some of these companies that have mix-slics, so that checks are made on the basis of a risk assessment. You have a relatively good picture of that selection. So it will be an increased effort, and it is an effort that has already been optimised this year, and I hope that it will also be seen in the sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415145019	That was the last answer to question 14. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his work and thank him for his work. Jan E. Jørgensen. That was also the last question, so that concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150415145025	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 16 April 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
