ParlaMint-DK_20150428130007	The meeting is open. There is the following review: Trine Mach (SF) and Özlem Sara Cekic (SF): Request no. F 40 (The government will explain its ongoing work on the elderly, food and meals and how it will ensure that the work and the good ideas and ambitions of e.g. Our meals and the Copenhagen University's and Food Culture's White Paper "FLAVOURS Meals for All Old People are practically realized for the benefit of the elderly, and what initiatives will the government take to achieve the ambitions so that the good ideas can alleviate loneliness and malnutrition among the elderly? The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150428130032	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428130057	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428130116	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 100 votes (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT), against 0 abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428130146	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428130201	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT), against 0, abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428130225	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Per Clausen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428130245	At first sight, it may be difficult to imagine why a proposal to adjust plant cover should be able to trigger a speech at the third reading too, but I really think this bill is really, really interesting. And if you look at it a little bit historically, it also marks a low point in Danish environmental policy, which I do not think we should dwell on a little bit. It was the case in 2009 that then the then VK government implemented the agreement with the Danish People's Party, which was called "Green Growth." At that time, the opposition at that time, some of which are currently in government, agreed that it was completely inadequate from the point of view of the environment, and it was promised that after a forthcoming election, when a new government and a new majority came into being, it would be taken into the other hand. If it had now been said at the time that a Social Democratic radical government would enter into an agreement with the Left, Conservative, Danish People's Party and Liberal Alliance to remove one of the few effective environmental measures in Green Growth, then it would probably have been accused of being both overly negative, skeptical, black-eyed and all sorts of other things. Nevertheless, this is what happens here today if this bill is adopted: one of the few effective environmental measures adopted under the VK government is removed and, moreover, in an agreement with the Danish People's Party. It is becoming even more curious because, at a time when everyone agrees that a targeted effort must be made and targeted regulation of the environmental impact of agriculture, this is where we carefully go in and remove targeted regulation. We know that this has had a really, very good effect both in terms of dealing with nitrogen leaching and in terms of solving some of the climate challenges we face. You go in and remove this targeted effort, and instead you agree that we need a little more of that more general. In other words, you remove something targeted that works and replace it with something general that you know to have a much smaller effect, but you do. That is contrary to what was said in the report by the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which said that we should make things more targeted and less general, but here we are doing the opposite. The truth is also that the only reason why we could agree on this in the so-called growth negotiations is beyond the particular challenge that it always is when it comes to growth negotiations, because then it ends up being the Finance Minister who, together with the Left President, has to agree on things, and then, when it comes to the environment and agriculture, it can be marked by a little superficial knowledge of what is working and what does not work was that it was important for the Left, who brought it here, to achieve a result where environmental control and environmental efforts were weakened and then gave agriculture better conditions of competition. Whether it was, by the way, a meaningless way of doing so, according to everything that has been said in the past, did not matter. The Nature and Agriculture Commission, all of which agreed to come up with a very good report here, was really inspiring to the further work that we did not say that we should weaken the protection of nature and the environment. You said that there was a need for enhanced natural and environmental protection, and then you had to make it targeted in order to allow room to also provide opportunities for agriculture to earn money. But here we choose to go in and weaken our efforts for nature and the environment, and then we do so by removing targeted action. I have to say that everything is turned upside down, because you had to replace general bets with targeted bets, and because you didn't think you were ready with the bets that were needed to make a targeted effort, you chose to do the opposite. The consequence of this is that we have here a legislative proposal which means clear deterioration in relation to the protection of nature and the environment and in relation to nitrogen emissions and which results in clear deterioration for the climate. Now you shouldn't talk shit about the government without talking good about the government too. After all, it's nice with the government that when they've made such bad deals with the right, they can make some good deals with Enhedslisten, where you repair a little bit of the damage, and it's also done in this area. It is just before the government in the environmental field often ends up coming out with only a small minus, because after they have made a large minus with the right wing making an almost equal plus with Enhedslisten and SF. It is, of course, sympathetic and is probably also an argument for having a social democratic government rather than a left-wing government. Because they only make the bad and never come to us to repair the damage. So, of course, you have to take that with you. That is the way it is in relation to this bill, and I would have liked to have said something about that at second reading, but I did not get a chance to actually sneak in on one little really smart thing, because the minister had been smuggled in something that was about if some farmers did something sensible to protect the environment, they could be rewarded for it, and that meant that some other farmers who did not do anything to help the environment had to pay a little bit to it. However, it was vitally important for the Left to have it removed and, fortunately, they could point out that in the growth agreement they had made no room for this kind of environmental nonsense, so it disappeared at second reading, where we tried to maintain it, but where we had to face up to the fact that there was no possibility of maintaining just the slightest improvement on this draft law. It was • and I think it should be remembered at first reading that Mr. Erling Bonnesen made one of these touching speeches on Danish agriculture, where it was clear that not a single farmer in this country should be subject to a single additional requirement, even if that additional requirement is a consequence of the better application of other farmers. It simply has to be so that the Left can be involved in everything moving back environmentally and naturally, and the exciting thing here is that part of the decline is to clean up after the green excrement, which evidently according to the Left's own view was in Green Growth. I find it sad that this bill seems to be adopted. I think it would be possible to make coherent agreements with solutions to both environmental, natural and agricultural issues, which were much more forward-looking and which gave us much more opportunity in the future to have a thriving food business in this country, instead of the backward-to-time green growth policy that the Left stands for in this debate. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the government has chosen to take a rather shaky course instead of seeking a majority, where one could have a policy that created a proper future for Danish food production as well as for the environment and nature in Denmark, and that is why we have this really, really bad bill. Now I have been with you for many years, so I will not try to make any appeal for the Socialists and Radicals to come to their senses at the last minute, because I know that does not happen, but it would have been very good if you had thought a little earlier, because we would not have got into this unfortunate situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131016	Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131028	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 89 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), against 17 (SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131102	I give the floor to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131110	Thank you. Today we need to look back a little in the history books, back to 10 June 1987. On that day there was a majority in this Chamber in Parliament who adopted the Storebælt link. It was very, very controversial, but come on, how good it is for Denmark that it was done then, June 10, 1987. I am jumping forward in time, namely to 14 August 1991, when a majority in the Danish Parliament adopted the Øresund link. It was also very, very debatable at that time, but come on, how good it was for our country that that connection was built. Today, April 28, 2015, a broad, broad majority will adopt the Fehmarnlink. It is tens of thousands of jobs where they need it most, in other words on Lolland-Falster, in South Zealand, on Danish pay and working conditions, and which, when completed, will be a historic upgrading of the ability to drive freight trains, a historic upgrade in terms of Copenhagen being connected to the European high-speed rail network. This is one of the days that writes into history, where Denmark as a nation is a nation with major bridge and tunnel projects. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131241	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Do more people want to speak? I don't see what's been asked for, but if mr. Henning Hyllested insists, he may have the floor for a brief comment. Then I'll just have to ask the Minister of Transport to sneak up on the platform again. Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131308	The Minister is enthusiastic and points out that this is an effective train connection. It is also a road link, Minister, and will the Minister not confirm that this is primarily an installation to ensure a transit link, the desire of the large business community in Sweden and also Norway and decided on the construction of the Øresund link? Is it not also true that it is only Denmark that finances the connection, with the exception of the German landworks, of course, and that the Germans would not contribute because they were perhaps not so interested and did not think the connection is so important? So we are left with the financing of an installation which was created primarily to create transit links from Sweden and Norway to the European continent. So I think that is some kind of strange construction. Now that we have seen lately that the price of the plant has increased quite dramatically, 9 billion. kr., 22 per cent, and we hang on to it alone in Denmark, then perhaps I thought it was worth considering whether the plant now also holds water at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131432	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131435	It is the case with the Fehmarn connection that it will be exactly like the Storebælt and Øresund connection 100 per cent. Paid by those who drive through. Whether it is Danes, whether it is Swedes, whether it is Germans, who it is, in their trucks, in their passenger cars or on the train, it will be 100 per cent. Paid by those who drive through. We can see that as the tunnel is designed by the engineers and as it is designed when it is made, it will last for a minimum of 120 years. At the moment we have a payback of approx. 40 years. So if you disagreed and voted against the Storebælt and Øresund connection, it may be difficult to see the prospects in the Fehmarn connection, but the parties who could do so at that time may also have easier to see the enormous perspectives that are, because Germany is indeed Denmark's largest and therefore also the most important trading partner, and I am not only saying that because we have the chancellor visiting Denmark today. Our biggest export market is actually south of the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131535	Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131538	Now the link is initially financed by the state. It is true that it is user-funded in the long term. Now the Minister says that a repayment period of 40 years is in operation. Well, is it holding, Minister? After all, the cost of the plant has increased, and I asked during the committee procedure, and I asked at second reading where the pain limit is. When are we sure that there will actually be a user fee, in other words that the plant can be financed within 39-40 years? After all, it is not certain that the price of the plant has risen quite, quite dramatically. This is also due to the fact that the traffic forecasts which have been drawn up have been so much challenged by other experts. So the uncertainty about the enterprise should tell us that the bill was put on standby and waited to adopt it until we know the exact price, and that is what the Minister said in September.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131641	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131643	I think it is very important to make it quite clear that this is also what I have tried to do, and the whole conciliation circle has been able to say that yes, there are still challenges. After today, they have to be eliminated one by one. We need German environmental approval. We have yet to get the precise amount from the European Union. We need to get the exact prices negotiated down and negotiated home. And we have said quite openly that these challenges must then be eliminated. This is the biggest boost to a part of the country that is so sighing for jobs and development. At the same time, it is the biggest increase in public transport between national borders. It is therefore a pity that not all parties can contribute to precisely this huge boost in terms of jobs and green transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131728	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131734	I would just like the Minister to confirm that it is an agreed conciliation group that has also included this in the Construction Act; that, as the Minister himself mentioned, we have some prices to negotiate; that we have some EU subsidies that we do not quite know the size of. And this isn't a matter of tomorrow's excavators running down at Fehmarn. It's a construction law, it's not a code of initiation. We will take that decision in the autumn, and I hope the Minister can confirm that, in other words, everyone agrees on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131803	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131805	I can confirm that. It always warms my heart when I hear the Danish People's Party highlight EU subsidies, because it is true that the European Union is providing a substantial subsidy. How much it's gonna be, we don't know yet. These are the negotiations I have on behalf of Denmark with the Transport Commissioner and the bodies that distribute that money. Why do they do that? They do this because it is cross-border and it is green transport. And it is precisely on the EU's list of objectives to support what also provides jobs. And we know this in September, where we can also put forward the very clear timetable and where we know the exact prices. Then we will decide whether to go ahead and sign it. This means that there are a number of uncertainties and they must then be eliminated one by one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131850	Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131854	Finally, the German Chancellor is in the country, and I do not know whether the Minister will have the opportunity to speak to the Chancellor, but this could be an excellent opportunity to just turn the German authority's approval over and see if the Chancellor could push that process a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131911	Thank you very much for the advice. I think we must respect the fact that the German environmental authority's approval is precisely such and probably not something that we in the Danish Parliament should go in and interfere with very seriously, although I share the rapporteur's wish that they should soon be given that approval.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131930	Sir. René Christensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131934	I would like to ask whether the Minister can not confirm, since Enhedslisten is so strongly opposed to this, that if you just look at Lolland-Falster, there are 60 hectares of business area in Guldborgsund Municipality at exit 41. If you look at the municipality of Lolland, 50 hectares are laid out at exit 48. Can the Minister confirm that this creates a great many local jobs, even after this tunnel building has been completed? And can the Minister also confirm that there is a great deal of search for those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428131958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132000	Yes, I can confirm that. And thank you for putting this issue on the agenda, because of course it is something that the whole nation will benefit from, just as the whole nation benefited from the Storebælt Bridge and the Øresund Link. But it has to be said that this is an area in Denmark which is so sighing to become attractive to investors; the area we are talking about here, namely Lolland and Falster, is indeed an area of Denmark that is sugaring for jobs, development, and that is precisely where the investments are, of course, located. That is why it also fits with the information I have received and hold, and with what I have seen on my visits several times down there, namely that there has now begun to be searching for good places. We know that infrastructure means a great deal there, and we can really do something here to ensure that there is renewed hope for a whole part of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132046	René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132049	Enhedslisten is also part of Togfonden DK. Can the Minister also confirm that, in the case of the Fehmarn connection and electrification, which then goes south, we are in fact now getting some travel times, among other things. from Nykøbing Falster to the capital, in 57 minutes, so you pick 25 minutes of the original journey time and that it is also part of the Fehmarn project, so you now get an infrastructure that is extremely well connected with the other parts of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132114	It is true that Nykøbing Falster will actually be part of the timetable, which the Danish People's Party also helps to vote on. There is a broad majority behind it, but unfortunately there are some parties that are opposed to it. It is incomprehensible to me. But it is true that Nykøbing Falster will be part of the timetable, and that in future you can commute in fast and from Nykøbing Falster to Copenhagen, if you want to, when we get all these investments in place. So, yes, it's a tunnel, but it's also so much more. And our experience from the other major connections over the years in Denmark shows that, yes, it is an infrastructure project, but it is also so much more; not least, it is jobs. And that's the belief that this future can be better, not least in those areas of Denmark that need it so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132157	It is permissible to ask leading questions. The next person to have the opportunity is Mr. Knox. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132207	Thank you. Now it was hard to hear what the Minister said all the way through because there is a lot of talk in the Chamber. But I think I heard the Minister say that there was a clear link between infrastructure, employment, development and jobs. Is that correct? I would like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132223	I have a huge number of leading questions today from that side of the House, and I believe that I will be able to say yes to that question safely. Now, of course, I know where the questioner comes from, but I think I will say anyway: yes, our experience shows that if there is a good infrastructure, both public transport and road infrastructure and bicycle infrastructure, for that matter, it is something that matters so much for job retention, settlement, etc. It is very nice in everyday life, but it also matters for the area's ability to develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132255	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132257	Thank you. Then I heard right, and that's always good. Then I hope that the Minister will put on the same glasses and take the same positive view when it comes to the crossing of Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132312	I had guessed that's where we were going. An intense effort is being made to find a solution to Bornholm's challenges in relation to the existing ferry settlement, and the aim is to be able to invite as soon as possible to a round of two in the negotiations, which can bring about the improvements that the Bornholmers have unanimously pointed out they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132335	I now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment. I would just like to remind you of what Mr. Peter Juel Jensen said that he could not hear what was said because of much talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132352	Thank you. Now there is also a strong leading question from here. In any case, it is very easy to answer yes. Can the Minister confirm that if you followed the Enhedslisten's approach to this, namely that you had to make a clean train connection, so that at the same time we do something good for the climate, namely by avoiding much more car traffic, truck traffic and passenger traffic on the roads, and followed it advice and had that attitude, it would probably create a fairly similar number of jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132421	I simply do not know the answer to that question. If you did, one thing would happen: this connection is going to be 100%. user-paid, is paid by the Danes, Germans, Swedes and others who choose to drive that way and drive through the tunnel, i.e. by those who use it, like the Storebælt Bridge and the Øresund Bridge, and not by others, but if you only made it a train connection it might well be a sensible idea to look at it, and we have done so we can see that it is impossible to earn the money home. So it will actually be the cars and the trucks that pay for us also to get the train connection under Fehmarnbelt. This is another argument that does, I think, have to be a little difficult to be against the Fehmarn connection. There are plenty of jobs and a huge boost of public transport • even paid through the tunnel bizz, the brobizz, paid by the drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132516	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132518	Thank you. After all, it was the jobs I was asking about, because it was in the whole argument that in the Enhedslisten we are not really wise because we are letting a whole lot of jobs disappear into thin air. Then it is just that I would like the Minister to consider that if you make a clean train connection, it will also create a whole lot of jobs, including in the local area. That's just what I wanted to make clear. I see that the Minister nods to it, so he understood it and allowed himself to be led in the right direction. Now we just need to get it from the platform with a clear and clear yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132553	There is no doubt that during the construction phase a railway system and a railway tunnel will probably generate approximately the same number of jobs. Subsequently, there will probably not be the same search that we have just heard from Lolland and Falster to settle there and place companies there. But when I mentioned the economy, it's because it doesn't matter. It is a project which is the size and actually slightly larger than the Storebælt Bridge and the Øresund Bridge, and then the economy is quite important. And if you're gonna make it user-paid, you're gonna need cars too. And unless you have a very large billions that you can post in it, you have to bring cars. That is what I quietly tried to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132635	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132637	Thank you. Now I understand that it is permissible to ask leading questions, so I am going to do the same. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that during the construction period, which is probably 6, 7, 8 years old, we are talking about 6,000 years' work every year. It is therefore a lot of people who will have the opportunity to work on this project • some foreign and very many Danish workers. A whole lot of the people who are today unemployed in the Region of Zealand, on Lolland-Falster, and who do not have the right qualifications, will have the opportunity during this period to be trained not only for this building, but also to be able to become labour on the future labour market once this tunnel is finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132720	It is a little dependent on how long the working period will be, but at least we are talking about jobs of that magnitude. And it is jobs on Danish pay and working conditions that there is even a requirement that during the construction period, during the construction period, 500 apprentices should be trained. I guess 500 apprentices say something about what it is possible to lift a whole part of the country we are talking about here. So those people get an education and are involved in work on a huge mega-building. And these are structural apprentices, electrician apprentices and apprentices in all kinds of things, among others. the construction sector, which is so given an opportunity. Once the building is finished, they have received an education, and then there is an opportunity to go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132811	Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132814	Thank you. That's a really good answer. So I had hoped that the Minister would reply. The reality is, as the Minister himself says, that this building is going to start, hopefully before that very long, it seems like a boost in a whole part of the country and in an entire region. It should not be forgotten that everyone is waiting, everyone is prepared, education centres, municipalities, job centres, everyone is waiting for this to get started, so that the people who are today going unemployed, and you can see them out there, will have the opportunity to get an employment. So I just have to ask the Minister to make it clear as soon as possible so that we can get to work on construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132853	We are working as fast as we can at all, but it has to be done thoroughly and properly. That is why Parliament has examined this proposal thoroughly and properly and now adopts it at the third reading. Secondly, there are the other things I have explained which must be eliminated one by one. But I'm glad this debate came. There was almost such a Lolland-Falster Loveworm here in the Assembly Hall today, that was very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132922	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to Mr. Henning Hyllested as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428132924	Debate and debate; it could be that the Minister had to take the conciliation text from then on and now also the civil engineering law and then summon the conciliation parties and read it again, because it does not seem that they have gotten into it properly since they have to confirm one thing and the other in the agreement. Come on! But okay, I understand that it's about to be an election campaign, and that you have a couple of different pastorates around you to watch. So, well, that's what we're witnessing. The debate comes from the Enhedslisten, because we are the only ones against the connection. And I have to say, as far as user charges are concerned, that it is user-paid if the economy lasts, Minister. But now we have witnessed a sharp increase in the price. Everyone was taken with their pants down there, so the Minister even had to say: it is not certain that the connection will come about if we cannot have the price negotiated down. It's gonna be some exciting negotiations. But there is nothing settled yet, so if it stands and falls with user payment or not user payment, it may be that the connection does not materialise, Minister. Perhaps this should be confirmed to the conciliation parties. The Minister is very keen that we are talking about green transport, that we are creating good connections for green transport. That is true, and if it were just a rail link, it could be fine. Then even Enhedslisten might also be able to talk to. But it is also a road link, a four-track road link, a motorway link that will generate lots of car traffic, generating lots of transit traffic with large trucks from Sweden and Norway. And that is exactly what our appeal is. We pay solo for a plant that generates lots of commercial traffic down over Zealand, down over Lolland-Falster. I do not see that we have any particular interest in that. This is, and will be, first and foremost a road link. Then there is the whole question of jobs, which we also hear over and over again. It is undoubtedly true that, during the establishment phase, there are, of course, jobs. Of course there are, and there are apprentices. We have asked a lot about this, and we must be over it, because we must also ensure that Danish jobs become Danish pay and working conditions as much as possible. I am not quite sure that you have control of what follows. You've written it into the contracts, and that's fine. It's by agreement between the Enhedslisten and the government. Control needs to be followed up, and I'm not quite sure that's in place. We will be over that, and we hope that the local trade union movement will also be over it. But the fact that motorways and such connections create jobs does not provide any evidence. There are a lot of traffic researchers who have been on the field and said no. But there may be a tendency for motorways and such connections to suck up jobs, for companies already established somewhere to move. And it can actually have the opposite effect, for example. On Lolland. Because it may be that some of the companies that are today scattered around Lolland are moving to the motorway, and I do not see that as an advantage. It will only contribute to a further exodus from the outlying districts of those outlying municipalities that we are talking about. So I do not think there is any justification for being so incredibly happy and self-confirming, I must say, about this bill, and that is why Enhedslisten is voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133314	It triggered requests for short comments from five members, and therefore it no longer says "The vote" on the board. Sir. Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133331	Let's just make it short. How's sir? Henning Hyllested to criticize the economy of this project and then at the same time propose a train project which everyone knows may have a payment time of 120 years? I understand that with Henning Hyllested's ideals you are not so much for cars and trucks, but it is, in fact, those who carry the economy of a double-track railway from Ringsted to Nykøbing to Hamburg through and under the Baltic Sea. This should be something that Enhedslisten really enjoyed, for those who do not like have now been given the chance to finance a double track railway.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133412	We like green transport. We are pleased with the transport of goods and passengers on rails, on trains. And that is why we have no problem with having been involved in adopting the Train Fund DK, which is a very good project which is aimed at rail transport. And the financing of it is in place. I know that the Left disputes that it is in place because of the fall in oil revenue, but that was part of the discussions when we started discussing it in the conciliation circle. A clear commitment was made by the government that that money would of course be found, if nothing else, on the annual financial laws. So the Train Fund DK is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133455	Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133457	It's pretty amazing. It almost sounds like if it had not been decided to build this tunnel, the Train Fund DK would probably have provided a double track railway. In other words, as the economy is in that train fund, there would never have been any money to create a tunnel under the Baltic Sea for that money. Finally, may I say that I am now working part of one of the municipalities. We have lists of companies that are ready to establish themselves on the day the Folketing has decided. It is therefore jobs, a great many jobs. And it's not just construction companies. There are a great many who are permanent companies. I'm just gonna say to Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested: We're kind of happy about them. Now I'm not sure that Lolland-Falster is Mr. Lolland-Falster. Henning Hyllested's Pastorat, but I should like to greet the voters of Enhedslisten on Lolland-Falster and say that they look forward to more jobs in that area, even after the construction works have ended.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133557	Yeah, I can understand that. But there are certainly no new jobs. These are jobs that move from other places. It may be other places in the country and fair enough, it's good for Lolland, certainly. There may also be jobs moving from somewhere nearby, on Lolland-Falster or in South Zealand, and what do I know? That is what many people have studied and where they have said: there are no new jobs in establishing large road links, including for example. The Fehmarn connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133627	Sir. Lars Barfoed for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133634	I think I could understand that. Hyllested, that is how we pay solo for the project, and then it is Swedish and German cars that drive back and forth. I would just ask you to confirm that it is the case that it is those who use the fixed link that pay for it via user charges and that this means that the Danish state will not pay a red penny for it. They are the ones who use the bridge who pay if it is Swedes, Germans or Danes or all sorts of others.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133702	It is clear that the connection is user-paid to the extent that the economy in the connection is maintained. There is no guarantee of that today. What I have tried to point out is that in the first place it is the state that starts, if I may say so. That is only true if the economy lasts, and that is extremely doubtful today, and that is why we have just like complained about it by Enhedslisten and said: why not take it easy? It doesn't really hunt that much either. The Germans have long since announced that they are very late with their landworks, so it is no longer urgent than it hunts. And since you have the expectation that you will be able to negotiate it with the contractors in September, you will have complete clarity about at least the actual construction price, and then the whole question of the traffic forecasts remains.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133743	Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133746	Thank you for that confirmation. That is what I thought it was owed to say, namely that it is the users who pay. Is it not also the case that all the assessments we have seen so far show that this is linked? It seems that the repayment period will be shorter than originally calculated, but should it be longer, it is still the case that it is the users who pay for perhaps a longer period, but the bill lands with the users.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133818	The calculations are so doubtful. It is true that Femern A/S has of course put a consultancy firm, in this case a German company, to account for things, but these calculations are so disputed by other road users who are also looking at this. So what I want to maintain, and what I have said up to a number of times, is that the economy in this is so questionable, and that is why we are saying just like this: why not take it easy, until we know the costs of setting up? After all, there are doubts about the repayment period, because there are doubts about the economy. So the project has increased by 9 billion. kr., and it thus has some form of influence on the repayment time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133907	Sir. Kim Christiansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133910	Thank you. To the end, I can say to Mr. Henning Hylllested, that is why we wait until autumn. After all, the report's contribution from the conciliation parties says that we are waiting until September to take the final decision, so we are showing the due diligence that Mr. Henning Hyllested also expresses. Then I would like to congratulate Mr. Henning Hyllested a little, because this financial responsibility is not exactly something we normally see from Enhedslisten's side in relation to funding etc. That's why I'd like to know, given that Mr. Henning Hyllested has had such great thoughts about the economy of this project, how Enhedslisten will finance a clean train connection, and what the repayment period might be for such a one, or whether it will be purely taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428133956	I simply cannot answer that question, because no independent calculation has been made for a pure train connection. Of course, it will in all likelihood be cheaper to establish than a combined link, there is no doubt about that. But what the exact numbers and the economy of it will be, I don't know. Sir. Kim Christiansen says that the problem of the economy has been taken into account by waiting until September, and when Enhedslisten criticises it, it is because we probably do not quite believe that it is in order to have a new discussion at that time; perhaps it is mostly in order to lay out a smokescreen and have some time until you get to see the final economy. So it's exciting to see if it's just a billion. kr. or 2 billion. kr., or whatever it is you have to cut the price before you decide to set the connection in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134053	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134056	When you hear Enhedslisten's mr. Henning Hyllested stands here and speaks dunder on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, one would like to remind you that it is not until Friday, it is 1 May, because gas is really being given here. Unfortunately, however, it is not for the good of the workers, because what we have heard in this Chamber is that thousands of jobs are created, even on Danish pay and working conditions. Training places are being created for a lot of young people who can see light at the end of the tunnel, get an education, and yet the Enhedslisten is opposed. Is this about Enhedslisten wanting to talk dunder and have big debates rather than producing results? Because the reality is not that even when it was about something that was only about public transport, namely the Copenhagen metro, Enhedslisten was also against, because it took just a little more debate and a little more attention had to be paid to, and we had to talk a little more, and we had to get right to the beer box. When it comes to generating results, creating something that benefits public transport, for the green, for the climate and for jobs, Enhedslisten would still rather talk and talk out of it rather than produce results. Isn't that the reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134202	I am sorry that I cannot take part in the general confirmation which has otherwise become normal in this debate. So I cannot confirm to the rapporteur that it is the intention of the Enhedslisten just to make its mark. In fact, we have some good and objective reasons to oppose the project. When it is said that there are clearly jobs in this phase of establishment, it is true. And that's really good. Nobody has a problem with that. But we are not setting up transport infrastructure in order to create jobs during a short transitional period. Hopefully, we will set up transport infrastructure. Hopefully, it is also the Social Democrats' approach to it because it has to make sense and somehow have a value for society. And when you create a transit link with major environmental problems down over Zealand and Lolland-Falster for the sake of the large business community in Sweden and to some extent in Norway, we do not think it is a good link. Then you have to make do with what you have. The ferry connections south of Sweden from Lolland will then have to make do. It can probably also be optimized in some way. This has nothing to do with the subway construction. When we were against it, it was because of the funding, because the subway was basically financed by land speculation. That was our most serious appeal. We weren't against the subway itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134335	Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134336	It has to make sense. I always think it makes sense when you create jobs and when you create apprenticeships for young people who get a chance in life. But here it is also about the Fehmarn connection that we can create the basis for more green transport on rail. Doesn't that make sense? As far as the subway is concerned, there is always some excuse for not wanting to make progress. When it is that the passengers around Copenhagen are rising on the metro and enjoying good public transport, should they know that the Enhedslisten was not part of it either, just as Enhedslisten's predecessors, the Left Socialists and the Danish Communist Party were opposed to the Storebælt link, was against the Øresund connection? Every time there is a chance of progress, Enhedslisten stands somewhere and speaks against because there is some thing that is just in the way. Would it not be better to contribute to achieving results in favour of green transport, in favour of jobs and in favour of apprenticeships?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134430	We actually allow ourselves in the Enhedslisten to take the debate on the much-vaunted progress; the eternal discussion on growth and jobs. After all, we believe that the development of a society must take place in balance with the nature and the environment. And when you generate more car traffic and more truck traffic, it is nature and the environment that have to pay. That's the way it is. That is where we are trying to strike a balance. The Fehmarn connection creates more traffic, and it is even transit traffic. In fact, we do not think that is fair. There are major environmental problems in building the tunnel on the seabed in the belt itself. There are major environmental problems in northern Germany, on the island of Fehmarn, etc. etc. We see the German environmental organisations being up in the red at the moment because of the environmental problems of the connection. That is why we allow ourselves to have both legs with us. We are not just cheering and clapping in our hands every time growth and jobs are said. We're also taking the environment with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134541	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134548	It is of course with great fascination that I can here in the back row hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur lecture the Danish Parliament on business development and business creation and job creation in general. It's a lesson I'm going to take on behalf of the party. But it seems that Mr. Henning Hyllested's sense of solidarity only extends within national borders. Sir. Henning Hyllested speaks a lot about the fact that the trucks will use Denmark as a transit country, but one has to imagine that the goods that will be transported now bypassing the Fehmarn connection will be transported anyway. There is a clear improvement for the environment, less CO2 Why does the Enhedslisten acknowledge Mr. Henning Hyllested not that it is good for the environment, instead of speaking more or less reactionary from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134633	I'm glad I can take part in the teaching of the Things and Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, definitely. If so, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt also wanted to learn from it and listen, I would be even happier, but now I have no expectation of that, I must admit. Motorway connections, connections created by the Fehmarn connection, generate more car traffic. At the same time, it has the negative effect that it destroys the basis for public transport, because it is clear that if you can get over by car, you are obviously undermining the basis for driving by train in parallel. It is clear that unless you of course make the train transport extremely cheap, and there is no willingness to do so in this Things, we have discovered that, and especially not from Mr. The side of Jakob Engel-Schmidt's party. So when we refer to the environmental aspects, we actually think we have good reason to do so, because all research shows that there is more car traffic out of creating this kind of fast-track link and in this case, therefore, first and foremost a transit link for the sake of Swedish business and Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134749	Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134750	So this means that the international solidarity of the Enhedslisten only extends within its borders. It is not an advantage that the environmental impact on the number of kilometres driven will be lower over the Danish bridge. I imagine that if the Enhedslisten's rapporteur had stood on Parliament's platform 20 years ago, it would have been social improvements such as the introduction of the Dankort and Storebælt Bridge, which had been spoken against with the logical form of rhetoric that Enhedslisten's rapporteur draws down on the debate. But I ask again: why is it a problem for Enhedslisten that Swedish, Norwegian and other transport companies can now drive less kilometers over the bridge and thus overall reduce their CO2 Why is it so terrible?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134832	Had it been a pure rail link, the goods could have been moved to rail, and that would have been the very big and ultimate step, because rail transport is, of course, green transport. But it is clear that, in parallel, if you create connections which trucks can use, that is also true of passenger transport, you are undermining, as I said before, the basis for creating genuinely green connections. We want to contribute to this, and it is really international solidarity that we so much improve the environment and climate around the globe, so we have no problems with that, on the contrary. But solidarity with the great Swedish business community, no, that is not what we consider to be international solidarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134917	The last question is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428134932	Thank you. I think this is a rather exciting debate and it is also very interesting to hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this discussion. I can imagine perhaps three or four people sitting on Lolland-Falster thinking: What on earth is going on in the Folketing? For what we experience and have a sense of, not just on Lolland-Falster, but in many parts of Denmark, is that development goes wrong, that Denmark is not in balance. And here there is therefore a historic chance of putting some of it into place by means of some investment • well enough in the field of traffic • and that will mean that we get a Denmark that is more in balance, because Lolland-Falster also comes on the map, compared to what it is now. Is it the case that Enhedslisten doesn't care at all about how people are just outside Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135018	The rapporteur. We need a little more silence in the Chamber. We will proceed to the vote in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135021	I can confirm to the rapporteur that, of course, we are interested in the entire population of the country. I am well aware that the rapporteur has been elected to Lolland-Falster and therefore has a special interest in this project, but it is unspeakable to start talking about Enhedslisten being a party only for the Copenhageners of course we are not. But I have tried here to justify why we may not think this is a good idea. Maybe we're looking at it with a slightly bigger view. I acknowledge that, and I have said this time and again, there are, of course, jobs on Lolland-Falster in this, not least during the establishment phase. Of course there is. But I have also said that when we take a position on large transport and infrastructure installations, we take a position on what benefits the country as a whole. Then you cannot lie down and look at what the individual parts of the country get out of a special connection. After all, this is a link to 64 billion. kr., which the Danish state must initially lay out for which we do not know the economy, and about which there has been a great deal of uncertainty. We can say that, and it is reasonable to take such views into account in this project.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135137	Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135139	Thank you. Now that is the case, Mr President, and this has also been explained by my good colleague in the Left. Henrik Høegh that the future in terms of creating jobs actually looks such that it not only concerns the establishment of the tunnel but also means that there will be jobs on the land allocated to companies and to a large extent companies coming from outside. This means that you will have a boost in a region which today needs a great many jobs because there are a great many unemployed; there are many people who do not have the training that they might well have thought of. I just note that there is Enhedslisten standing in a corner and saying that you don't want to do anything about it. And it may well be that the rapporteur thinks that it is something worse that I happen to be elected in Lolland. But now it is the case that the people we are talking about here are my neighbors. These are the ones with whom I am in the union, these are my colleagues, and I worry about them, and I also think that Enhedslisten and Mr. Henning Hyllested was supposed to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135239	We do too, and I certainly recognise that the rapporteur is naturally concerned about his neighbours. I think that is quite fair. So do we, but we also believe that Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen's neighbours benefit from a good environment. Of course they benefit from jobs, that is clear enough to the extent that they come. We also have doubts about permanent jobs. It is of course to be feared that the link here will reduce, if not completely, the ferry operation, and there is a whole range of jobs associated with it. So it has to be set against each other. I guess there's quite a lot on Lolland-Falster who's involved in ferry operations. Is it some of Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen's neighbors, some of the people he talks to, and what do they say? But again: We weigh this up against the issue of climate and environment and what it benefits Denmark as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135333	Thank you to the rapporteur and to all the authors. Is there anyone else who has been elected in the area who wants to speak? There are more who have been elected in the area, but there are no more who want to speak. So we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135353	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and ALT), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135426	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135455	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 96 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and ALT), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135514	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428135546	After all, this is a draft law on the Pharmacy Act, which we have discussed in the Committee on Health, and that is not so much the angle I am going to put forward, but we have paralleled the bill in the Rural and Islands Committee, and on that occasion we have also had the pleasure of having the Minister in consultation. I should also like to say that I think the consultation went well, since the Minister, I think, has endeavoured to respond. However, I still have to arrest a few things, because it is not certain that it is known to everyone in the Danish Parliament that the Pharmacy Act contains that the Danish Health Authority should continue to assess whether, for example, it is possible that the Danish Health Service is not in a position to do so. Some pharmacists must continue to live if they do not comply with the rules. There are some criteria, among others. they shall assess the road distance to the nearest prescription-expeding unit, where the board shall observe whether a pharmacy branch is located more than 10 km from another prescription-expeding unit, i.e. a pharmacy or a pharmacy branch. But it's more about those less than 10 km away. What happens to them? There the Minister says that account must also be taken of how many citizens there are in the area. But how is that to be defined? Yes, the Minister says you should, for example. assess whether it is few or relatively few. But it is quite a wide concept to have to deal with afterwards. One should also look at what the activities of the branch, measured as the number of prescription expeditions for individuals, are. Finally, we need to look at traffic conditions. It's all good enough, but you just have to say that the elastic is stretched out well here, so once they have to look at whether this is something that will make them want to impose that a pharmacy branch should be maintained, the Danish Health Authority can almost come up with any result they want. I'm sorry. I have repeatedly asked the Minister both in writing and in two consultations whether we could not try to define what is meant by it when entering and assessing that there is less than 10 km. Is it gonna be okay when it's 9.6 km? Or is it between 9 km and 10 km that will be acceptable? What does relatively few mean? Are these cities with 500, 1,000, 1500, 2,000 or 2,500 inhabitants? No one knows that they are few or relatively few. I just want to say that I think that too much influence is being given to the Danish Health Service, which of course sits and has to assess these matters, but which I do not think need to be completely free to do whatever they want. One could easily have set up some forks, as we have done so often, and said that it should be within that and that range. The Minister has not answered, although I have asked some questions. Perhaps it is because the Minister knows that we are still voting in favour of the bill. But that's the way it has to be. Because when you sit and judge a bill, you vote for it, if you think that most of it is good enough. However, I still find it sad, especially from a rural point of view and from the point of view of all the meetings that we have in the Rural Committee in the country. We are getting the repeated concern from out there that we in the Folketing do not always understand what is moving in rural areas. I'm afraid this is gonna be an example of that. We are leaving plenty of rubber band without it being properly explained whether the outermost regions have been sold or not sold, whether they will be able to keep their pharmacy or whether they will not be able to keep their pharmacy. I think that's sad. The Minister could have done better. I would like the Minister to come up here today, but I think that after two consultations and a series of questions I should not hope that the Minister will come up here on the platform. I don't believe that anyway. But it should not be unsaid, so now the Minister must at least bother with it for the rest of the day and think that he could have done better by setting it up more precisely so that the Health Authority could take more account of the people living in rural areas. It's been my wish, but we won't get that far. On the other hand, I have to promise the Minister that we will follow this closely when we see how the Danish Health Service implements the power they are given here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140026	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed and we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140038	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 97 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT) voted against, 0 abstentions 5 (LA). The bill has been passed [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140107	Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, Mrs Liselott Blixt, as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140118	Today, the majority vote in favour of a proposal for coercion in psychiatry, and this should have improved the legal position of children. We in the Danish People's Party think it is really a pity that children's legal status only starts when you are 15 years old or when parents have refused to make a decision. We tabled an amendment which would ensure that the Psychiatry Act was applied, whether it was over or under the age of 15, and the majority obviously did not want that, not even the Minister. So we can regret that. But of course we say yes to the rest of the bill. But we hope that in time we can ensure that the Psychiatry Act also works, even if you are under 15 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140208	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140213	In fact, I think it is an incredibly happy day today, because there is such a large, broad majority for us to look at this legislation, especially because this bill in relation to our mentally ill citizens states that the purpose of psychiatric treatment in Denmark is to recover. There is, for the first time, an objective clause in the legislation, which stresses that the aim is not to be treated or forcibly withdrawn, but to recover. It is an entirely paradigm shift, in relation to whether you believe that people with mental illness can recover or whether you basically believe that they are chronically ill for the rest of their lives. That is why, of course, I also hope that the legislation can help change the culture in many departments, so that you actually believe that the individual can come or can learn to live with his or her illness. Another thing that I think is quite historic is that with this bill we are now stressing the importance of relatives. We know today that when you go in and involve the relatives of course if the patient so wishes, the probability is that the patient will be forced into hospital, remanded and forcibly medicated actually very small, compared to if you do not involve the relatives. There are over a million Danes who are relatives of a mentally ill person in today's Denmark, and the vast majority of them really want to continue to be a part of the citizen's life, and the vast majority of them are also a resource. Unfortunately, however, a great many of them experience that you meet them as a limitation, meet them as an annoyance, rather than meet them as someone who actually wants the best for their relatives. The third point I would like to emphasise is that there will be better supervision in relation to forced belt fixings. Now it is the case that if there is a person who is going to be subjected to coercion, then much more often there must be supervision, so we are 100% sure that coercion is the last resort. Unfortunately, there are a great many of the last few years of investigations which show that it is not always the case that coercion is the last resort, but unfortunately also some places have become part of a treatment, and that is not the purpose at all. I would have liked to see some things we could have done better. As the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also stressed, it would have looked good on us if we had also been able to ensure legal certainty with this law for children and young people who are in psychiatry, especially children and especially those who are under 15 years of age. I still do not think it is parents' responsibility when a child is so ill that it is estimated that that child should be treated with coercion. I believe that it is a medical assessment that needs to be taken, also because many parents say that it is really difficult to stand in the situation where you are the one who decides whether the child should be forcibly medicated, forced or forcibly detained. They want to be allowed to remain parents. I am sorry that we did not manage to achieve that ambition too. Now we'll see what happens. There are two things we have emphasised by the SF which have been very difficult for us. One is up-to-date fixations, as you can see in the fuse. We voted against it at the time, and we have also written in the comments in the report that we believe that it sends an unfortunate signal that we are making a forced law to be able to halve that is the ambition, that is the goal • while at the same time somewhere else in Denmark we have a hospital where up-to-date patients wear these belts and look like Guantanamo prisoners. Actually, I don't think it's okay with that patient group. The second is outpatient coercion, where we have run a trial period of 4 years, where you go in and say: there are citizens we cannot reach and who, despite several attempts, continue to get out of their medical care. When we entered into the negotiations, it was important for us that this was not used as an opportunity to say that now there was no need to do an outreach work. Therefore, a number of criteria were put in place that there should be outreach psychoseteams, one should repeatedly try to create a contact and there should be forced admissions. And now this first evaluation shows that neither patients nor those who work with it think it's a good idea. The Minister really wants us to continue for four more years, and there we have said: let us do it. But it is a little strange that a project is being carried out which will subsequently have to be evaluated and where you come to the conclusion that it is not very good, and then you say: we give it 4 more years. I do not think the result will be different in four years' time, because I hope that we do what we can to prevent patients from being discharged into nothing. That's what the vast majority of people actually say they're being discharged into nothing, and that the municipal psychiatry isn't very good at catching these patients and helping them move on, but that they fall between two chairs. That is why the call is also from here to the municipalities and to the hospitals: from the legislative point of view we have done what we could easily have a higher level of ambition, but we must try to halve the pressure. Now it is up to you also to ensure that there is cooperation between you. Now it is up to the municipalities and hospitals not to turn it into a sectoral war, but actually to work for the best for the patient. Whether the citizen is hospitalized or the citizen has been discharged, it requires coordination, and I hope that this will also be a part of it. I am really, really happy about that, and I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that this bill actually comes into being. This is the first time in so many years that there will be a revolution in psychiatry, where you enter politically from Christiansborg and set a goal that we want to halve coercion, that we want a psychiatry based on dialogue, on equality and equality, and that's why you do this. We can always discuss where the level of ambition should lie, but I think it is extremely positive that, for the first time and with such a broad majority, we should now go in and say that people who have mental illness must meet with equal dignity; we should ask how they feel and we should hear what they want. So they are no different from cancer patients than heart patients and all sorts of others. Of course, their voices and the voices of their relatives must also be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140921	This triggered a brief remark from Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140926	I listened with interest to the long speech, and I was not, as it were, prepared for us to repeat our rapporteur's speech here during the third reading, so I would just like to acknowledge that Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic here in the end actually praises the fact that we are now standing together for the modernisation of the law, that we are united on the objectives of halving the coercion of psychiatry and the other improvements that are contained in the law. So it is just a receipt for the final sentences of the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428140955	I am very pleased to hear that, but as I also praised the other parties for which we have worked together on this, I also think it is very positive that the government has taken the lead in reforming the psychiatry legislation, and I also hope that together, whatever political majority there is, we will keep an eye on this area. Politicians must also have a political vision of psychiatry. At long last we have started to say here from Christiansborg that we also have a position, that we also have a vision for psychiatry, because so far it has been said that it is a professional discussion and then politicians should not interfere in it. No, just as politicians get involved in cancer treatment and everything else, we also have to get involved in it because we care about our mentally ill, and we want to make a difference to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141038	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141041	Well, like the one who wrote the first words of the proposal for a national plan of action for psychiatry in 2007, I promise that I will continue to reposition until we reach the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141051	So it's just before I want to say: Vote for Karen J. Klint. But I'm sure I won't like SFs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141058	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There is no such thing and we shall vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141108	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 100 votes (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141139	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141153	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 98 votes (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141222	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141233	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141258	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141309	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141335	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141355	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 45 (V, DF, LA and KF), against 52 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141426	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Sophie Løhde, first of all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141455	The bill here is a follow-up to last year's rate pool agreement to ensure an increase in the quality of the alcohol treatment and which was concluded between all the Danish Parliament's parties with the exception of the Enhedslisten. The aim of the bill is to provide a more uniform...
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141518	A little more calm in the Chamber so that the rapporteur can hear her own words. And if you're gonna talk in here, you're gonna have to go outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141528	The aim is to provide a more uniform quality in the alcohol treatment services by including the alcohol area in the Social Protection Act. On the left side, we have been very concerned about securing and supporting a quality increase in both municipal and private alcohol treatment facilities, so that we ensure that the treatment sites approved by each municipality are actually of the appropriate quality in their treatment. This was also the reason why the VK government in its time established guidelines for the local approval of alcohol treatment sites, which were also part of the then stock pool discussions and agreements, and that is also why, in the ex-post evaluation of the entire approval model, we have been concerned to ensure that the scheme also had the desired effect on the quality of alcohol treatment in practice and was not just a fine document on the shelf in the country's municipalities. The ex-post evaluation showed that the municipalities applied the guidelines to a very large extent, but at the same time the evaluation also showed that there was a need for a much more concrete and binding criteria for approval and refusal of quality assessment in the approval process. Against this background, we agreed in the pool parties that, from a central point of view, a higher level of professional quality should be required at alcohol treatment points, where the existing five social services should henceforth approve and supervise alcohol treatment centres that provide treatment with public funds and are therefore paid by the country's taxpayers. We are very pleased that the legislative proposal secures a more, what can be called, systematic and mandatory approval and supervision of the country's alcohol treatment sites. On the other hand, we in the Left must note that we do not believe that the Minister is sufficiently in line with the demands which, at least from the Left, were at the heart of the wage-pool agreement, or, in other words, we think that the bill should be tightened up. If you read the comments on the bill, it appears that the Danish Health Authority's guidelines and guidelines can be followed. That means that they can do it, we don't think it's good enough, and we think it's too lax. We have already pointed this out to the Minister at the meeting that we rapporteurs had the opportunity to have with the Minister before the first reading of the draft law. So the condition that we in the Left can ultimately support the bill is that it is not just a •can't-do obligation, but that it becomes a "must" obligation, that the guidelines and guidelines of the Danish Health Authority should of course be followed as a key tool in the approval and supervision. So if the Minister is prepared to deliver it here in the next committee, then we can support the bill and otherwise we will have to vote against it. We think it is absolutely crucial that all approved treatment centres should, of course, comply with professional standards and have the necessary quality of treatment, and we are a little incomprehensible as to why the government has not secured it in this draft law as something quite obvious, since it is that we all agree on the objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141912	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428141921	Thank you. It has very severe consequences in the lives of those who are alcoholics. This has severe consequences for those related to an alcoholic, including their children. It has for society too. Alcoholism, alcohol abuse, is a very big problem here in Denmark. I am glad that we in the Danish Parliament are so agreed that the alcoholics and their families must be helped if they want to get out of their abuse. The 98 municipalities in the country must be offered an offer to those who have alcohol abuse and who want help. That's why we have approx. 130 alcohol treatment sites in Denmark. The Danish Health Authority has prepared guidelines and guidelines on what good alcohol abuse treatment is. Now seven out of nine parties here in the Danish Parliament have agreed that some other quality requirements must therefore be imposed on the alcohol processing establishments, because we have analysed and evaluated and seen that there is a need for better quality. The betting pool parties agree that we think it is a very good idea to place this quality supervision in the five existing social services in the five regions. In any case, they are located in different regions. They must have an authorisation and supervision system for those treatment centres that wish to take citizens referred from the public to alcohol abuse treatment. In future, the Social Inspectorate will ensure approval and operational supervision of the treatment centres. The sole intention is to ensure that there is an authority with a high level of professionalism capable of supervision and approval, so that we have a systematic, uniform, impartial and professionally competent process of approval and supervision for these treatment centres. In its quality assessment, the Social Inspectorate must make use of seven parameters and criteria. These are the same seven criteria that they make use of when they already approve the drug abuse treatment sites that deal with drug addicts at present. There is a great deal of overlap between the things that abuse treatment places should be able to do. As the Social Democrats' health rapporteur, I look forward to the political debate towards the third reading. I have listened to what has been said by the rapporteur of the Left, and I hope that we will have a constructive dialogue on this, because treatment centres are an extremely important area in which to have better supervisory capabilities and quality specifications. The Socialists support the bill and we hope that the quality improvements that we are aiming for will really benefit the many people who hopefully accept a public alcohol abuse offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142300	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. No, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen should be reinstated, because Mrs Sophie Løhde has asked for a brief comment. I think it's my screen that's set wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142317	[Sounds out] I just want to hear the Socialist rapporteur and thank him for his comments... if it should be understood in such a way that the Socialist rapporteur thus agrees with the Left in what has also been pointed out by among others. The Medical Association, namely that the Health Authority's guidelines and guidelines should of course be used as tools in the approval and operational supervision, and that this will be supported in relation to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142348	I think we should take the discussion in committee. However, I have said both in my rapporteur's speech today and on many other occasions that I am very pleased that we have had the Danish Health Service draw up guidelines and guidelines. That is what we must have the treatment centres to offer, because that is what has been confirmed as being the best framework. And it is not a stationary framework; it is a dynamic framework that is constantly evolving. However, I think it would be right for there to be greater clarity on this point, too, in relation to the treatment centres which are supposed to provide services to the patients and citizens of the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142431	Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142433	I would, of course, be happy to discuss this further with the rapporteur during the committee procedure, but I think it should be quite simple to answer whether you agree with the Left that it should of course be a shell thing and not a can-do thing, that you should use it here as a tool, whether we talk about approval or operational supervision. Does the Socialist Group agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142500	After all, we have many other areas of health where there are guides and guidelines, and some are "can't," and others are "must." I have stated here from the platform today that I think quality is essential and that, in relation to the discussions we have had over the last few years, both on one and the other on the quality of alcohol treatment, we must have uniformity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142527	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142536	As the previous rapporteurs mentioned, it is in the pool of rates that we have agreed that something should be done in this area, and that is why this bill has been drawn up. As Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen mentioned three points which deal with the approval and supervision of alcohol processing sites, the Social Protection Act and the processing of personal data. The municipalities took over responsibility for the alcohol treatment in Denmark under the Health Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2007. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring that alcohol addicts can receive the treatment they need to get out of the abuse. Today, too many people are unfortunately becoming addicted to alcohol, and this has many personal and financial consequences for the individual's family. According to the Danish Health Service, there are approx. 200,000 addicts, and many believe that it may be the man on the street who drinks too much, but the reality is that many of those seeking treatment are ordinary Danes with family and jobs. We also know that there are many consequences in addition to the dependence of the alcohol-dependent, there is also the family to take into account. Therefore, it is important to be able to provide treatment, to meet a certain standard, and to ensure a high quality and to ensure that there are individual methods. Today we have out-patient day and day offers and many work very well, but unfortunately it has also been found that some places have not had the necessary skills and have therefore not been able to help the citizens referred to. That is why we agreed in the pool of rates to set aside funds for the area so that we could ensure quality. It will be the five social inspections which will have to take care of the places in question to see if the quality is as it should be. However, I would like to support the rapporteur of the Left in saying that these guidelines, which can be followed, must of course be changed so that they are rules that must be followed. We have too often seen guidelines that can be followed, which are then not followed. So we will certainly proceed with that in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142803	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142810	With this bill, we are now implementing the agreement agreed by the pool parties, namely to increase the quality and supervision of municipal alcohol treatment. What we are doing in concrete terms is that we in the Health Act provide that the Social Protection Agency, which currently supervises a number of other municipal treatment sites, such as drug abuse treatment services, will henceforth have to approve and supervise alcohol treatment facilities in a business-oriented manner, and that the municipality can only offer alcohol treatment at the alcohol treatment facilities approved under the Social Protection Act. On the radical side, we welcome the fact that social supervision must now also supervise the places of alcohol treatment, as we are convinced that it will increase the quality of the offers. That is why the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142907	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the Socialist People's Party rapporteur, Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428142927	I would like to congratulate the President here for saying my name correctly. It's a rare thing in this Chamber. The proposal is the result of the decision of the pool parties to allocate funds to the increased quality of alcohol treatment, as many others have also said, and this means establishing a system of authorisation and supervision for alcohol treatment points. In the future, the existing five social services will have to approve and supervise the operation of alcohol treatment facilities providing treatment by public funds. It has been very important on our part that we continue to have the good private places that are also in this area. In addition to this, it was important to us in connection with this change that it should lie under the Danish Social Protection Agency that the health professional competences actually came along, so we kept insisting that the treatment these people received was also based on some knowledge that helped. We can support the proposal and we think it is a very good idea to take these steps in the right direction. However, as I mentioned just now, it is important for us that medical skills should actually be included in the further work that needs to be done, so that guidelines and all the preparatory work that has been done in this area are continued.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143051	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143105	The Enhedslisten can also support the proposal as it stands here, and we are happy to vote in favour of it. However, we should like to make a few comments on this. After all, it is designed to develop a more systematic supervision of alcohol treatment in Denmark, by leaving it in the hands of the five social services, as several have explained from the platform. This establishes, for the first time, a firm quality view of the publicly funded alcohol treatment and therefore, I hope, a general priority for treatment in the area of alcohol. For many people in this House, both social and health rapporteurs, it is well known that the quality of municipal alcohol treatment has varied greatly from municipality to municipality, and in practice this has meant that alcohol abusers have received far too unequal treatment depending on where they live. Repairing it is not done with improved supervision alone, but it is certainly a step on the way. The Enhedslisten also notes that it is positive that there is a focus on the need for supervision to be able to assess both social and educational and health and economic aspects of the treatment, thereby also ensuring that citizens are treated respectfully and involved in their own course of treatment. It is, of course, a strength in the way we have organised social oversight, namely that it is a holistic supervision. When it comes to the debate that has also been about sensitive personal information in the context of the changed supervision, we in the Enhedslisten are pleased that it now appears more precisely from the comments that only health professionals directly related to the offer should be included in the amendment of the law, as the Medical Association has pointed out in the hearing response. Furthermore, the Enhedslisten has also shared the idea of the homeless organisation SAND that proper supervision requires the involvement of citizens using the treatment and the Minister's response that it is also compulsory under the Social Insurance Act already, we are very, very happy about. It is important to point out too. The unitary list may vote in favour of the proposal, which is one of a number of government initiatives in the field of alcohol. In addition to that, it can be said that the regrettable thing in this is that some of the initiatives are given a temporary nature, because they are rate-pooled, but Enhedslisten can only support the overall focus also on prevention and treatment of over-consumption and abuse of alcohol.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143344	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143354	After all, it is an easy matter that we are dealing with today, for the sole reason that seven parties of the Folketing have made an agreement. There is no doubt that in some places the quality of the alcohol treatment has hardly been at its peak and may not have been right either. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance think that it is quite fine to ensure the quality of the supervision that must be provided, because this will also guarantee the quality of the treatment that people with alcohol problems are subjected to and offered. We think this is a fine way of organizing it in these decentralized supervision, but with some key guidelines. So, of course, the Liberal Alliance can support the proposal in line with the agreement we have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143440	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143447	Thank you. This bill is dealt with on the basis of the 2015-2018 Rate Pool Agreement. Here, the pool parties agreed to prioritize funds for increasing the quality of alcohol treatment at private and public treatment sites. The draft law here establishes a system for approving and supervising treatment centres. The scheme will be set up under the five social security supervision systems and will apply to all places where public funds are provided. The essence is to ensure uniform and systematic supervision and to ensure high quality requirements. This is particularly true in relation to professionalism, the economy and the organisation at the treatment centres. Some clear guidelines for these particular areas will also be the starting point for the new supervision. I very much agree with the rapporteur of the Left that, in the course of the debate, we shall have to discuss the fact that these are made compulsory. The new system will have to make an annual visit and if there is a need for additional visits or enhanced supervision, then it can be decided. The treatment of people with alcohol problems is an important task, and it is being resolved today with great success by many both private and public actors. It is a noble task to help people out of abuse and create quality of life, new hope and a second chance. Here we help people who really need help. That is why it is also important that professionalism is controlled so that we ensure the best possible treatment. It is also important that in these treatment centres there is order in the economy, whether it is a public or a private place of treatment that receives financial support from the public sector. With those comments, the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143630	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Health and Prevention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143642	First of all, thank you for your comments. After all, the legislative proposal is also in line with the problem that we have jointly recognised, namely that the quality of our alcohol treatment facilities around the country is too fluctuating. And a good and relevant way of picking up this is, of course, to go the way we are doing here, namely to say that we need to have significantly improved requirements for the approval of alcohol treatment sites and a significantly improved operational supervision. So I look forward to the continued debate in committee. I think there is a basis for hope that we can bring together all the parties of the Folketing in agreement on the proposal that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143730	A brief comment has just been made by Mrs Sophie Løhde from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143736	Thank you. The precondition for the Minister's being able to bring together a united Parliament, or at least a very, very broad majority in the Folketing, rests among other things. on whether the Minister is prepared to meet the demand we have from the Left, which I can hear today has been supported by the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, on what concerns the Danish Health Authority's guidelines and guidelines, and that it should not be a "can" task that you can choose to follow them, but that it should be a "must" task for the municipalities, both when we talk about approval and the operational supervision. Is the Minister prepared to amend the bill so that it meets the wish of the Left, which is supported by several parties here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143820	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143822	I think that the way we go about it in the legislative proposal, namely that we are saying that here we are making significant demands on the approval of six different themes, education and employment, independence and relations, the economy, etc., but, indeed, with regard to target groups, methods and results, the appropriate way to do so is to do so. I also note, and I think this is important for the precise discussion on this issue, that there is good evidence of what works in the area of alcohol. When I think that we should take the question of the decisive agreement on this in the further process, it is because there are also some questions that we must in any case find answers to: what will that mean for any DUT questions? Will it mean a significantly longer phase-in when there are bound demands on alcohol treatment sites? And how does it play along with the other oversights that are being carried out? There are, after all, a wide range of different laws at these treatment sites which require different supervision. This is the food sector, tax, labour inspection, data monitoring and, of course, the supervision which the Danish Health Service is carrying out, for example. the medical profession which takes place at the treatment centres. But summa summarum I am sure that in this, as in other areas, we will also find a way to build the bridge that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143943	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428143945	That was a very long answer, but it was not a particularly clear answer, if I may say so. I am well aware that the further economic consequences of the bill will have to be negotiated with the municipalities, but we did allocate a very, very significant and neat amount of money to the municipalities in connection with the rate pool agreement on this. That is also why I have to say that if we are going to burn off a lot of taxpayers' money to ensure what is the target, namely increased quality in alcohol treatment, then it must be quite obvious that we are demanding that the guidelines and guidelines drawn up by the Danish Health Authority in relation to alcohol treatment should of course also be followed, both when we talk about authorisation and when we talk about operational supervision. That is why I ask the Minister to be a little clearer. Does the Government agree with the Left that this is a matter of course and will thus respond to the wish and the demand that we in the Left have made in order to be able to support the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144045	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144046	It may be that my answer was long, but unclear. I think we can also say the same thing, and at least as far as the length is concerned, on the question here in the second round. I think we have good experience of doing so in the sense that we have the first initial markings here at first reading and that we will then find out how things can be handled when we have committee work. I don't think it's far between us. I think that when we know that there is good evidence of what works in the area of alcohol, what works in the treatment, we should also be able to figure out how to get this into the framework that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144123	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144126	Thank you. I'd just like to hear why one of these rules out the other. When doctors also say that these medical skills are incredibly important and that it is important that these guidelines actually follow suit, why can we not say that they should do so, especially in relation to the knowledge we have in this area? I have been involved in the social pool negotiations where we have given money to projects that could sober up by getting closer to God. That's completely ridiculous. That is why I am wondering why we cannot ensure that there is also some proper knowledge that actually goes with it, even though it is the Social Security Authority that must be responsible for all supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144208	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144209	But one certainly does not rule out the other. I think that's what I've been trying to say in a couple of rounds. I have also said that, now that we have an area where we know that there is good evidence of which treatment works and does not work, that is, of course, the right way to go. What I'm just saying in peace is that we, among other things, are... the committee procedure to clarify, for example: the question of DUT; e.g. the question of interaction with the other supervision taking place; and, for example, the question that if you make this very manifest demand from the start, does this mean that, in order to avoid any expropriation-like regulation, you will enter a very long phase-in period, which will mean that there will be more time until we reach the goal we are going to have to achieve? So I'm saying it's a good idea. I'm saying we're completely open to talking about it. I'm saying it looks like we can find each other here. I am also just saying that, as we usually do, let us consider the elements, so that we are sure that we are hitting the ball right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144312	Mrs. Cekic? No. Then I thank the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144334	The debate is open. First, the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144405	The motion for a resolution we are debating here gives us the opportunity to discuss what I consider to be an important issue, namely the protection of employees against violence and threats. Let that be said straight away: I, the government, recognise that employees who are subjected to violence at work can face a difficult dilemma if they are to report to a citizen they are caring for on a daily basis. I would therefore like to acknowledge that the parties address the problem raised in the motion for a resolution. Violence and threats are unfortunately part of the harsh reality in some jobs in Denmark. I would like to start by briefly sketching out the rules on the prevention of violence and threats. It follows from the legislation on working conditions that work at all stages must be planned, organised and carried out so that it is fully safe in terms of safety and health. This means, among other things, that employees must be protected from physical and psychological violence and threats from citizens, patients and relatives. And it is the employer's duty to handle the task and to prevent threats of violence. Having said that, we in the government have also made a number of efforts to prevent violence and threats. As recently as Easter, we reached a broad agreement to further strengthen health and safety efforts. The agreement means, among other things, that we are focusing more on those companies where we know that the problems are greatest. This also applies to jobs where employees are exposed to violence and threats. In addition, the Danish Labour Inspectorate carried out the supervisory work with a focus on mental health and safety, including, of course, violence and threats. The government has also initiated a violence prevention package targeted at sectors where there is an increased risk of being exposed to violence and threats. Furthermore, with a change in the Working Conditions Act, the government has now also committed employers to preventing violence and threats to employees outside working hours. Finally, I would like to mention that, as of April 2015, the government will make it possible to register violence against employees when reporting accidents at work. As something new, it must also be stated if an accident at work is the result of violence and threats when it is reported. a significantly better registration. Today, people who have been victims of violence are guaranteed by the Labour Insurance Act and the Victims' Compensation Act. The Work Damage Insurance Act provides employees with cover for treatment costs, compensation for permanent but also compensation for loss of occupational and working capacity. If it can be demonstrated that the violence has taken place, compensation may be paid. In addition, employees who are victims of violence also have the possibility of obtaining compensation under the victim compensation law. The Offer Compensation Act provides compensation for health expenses, lost earnings, pain and pain, permanent but, loss of earning capacity, torture and abuse, etc. Compensation under the victim compensation law requires, as a general rule, a police report. Employees who have then been subjected to violence at work can thus, under the rules in force, be compensated to a large extent for their losses. However, the government recognises the concerns presented in the motion for a resolution, in particular the ethical dilemma of having to report to a citizen who is taken care of every day. Some employees who have been victims of violence choose not to notify or sue the injured party as it may challenge the future relationship between the employee and the injured party. And I can actually understand that position. That is why I believe it is also the responsibility of employers to ensure that the abuses are reported to the police so that the employee is not put in this dilemma. The employer has a considerable responsibility to ensure, on the one hand, that there is a response to violence and, on the other hand, that employees who have been subjected to violence or threats receive the necessary help and support to move forward. I recognise the issues that the motion for a resolution will look at. At the moment, together with the social partners, we are in fact discussing the possibility of modernising the whole system of occupational injury. These discussions are based on the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, which we received back in the field of occupational injury in December 2014. The Committee of Experts shall have, inter alia: recommended the introduction of the possibility of compensation for pain and pain and compensation for loss of earnings in the work injury system. If those recommendations are followed, the problems of compensation for people who have been subjected to violence at work will be significantly reduced. I therefore think it is most natural that we should now, at first, wait for the discussions of the parties that are so well under way, and afterwards we can consider politically whether this has become good enough or how we deal with it. That is why the government cannot recommend the motion for a resolution at this very time, but clearly recognizes the issues involved and hopes that the work being done with the parties on new legislation on occupational injuries will also help to solve the problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144856	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428144917	Thank you, President. I was sitting down in my seat waiting for questions to come to the Minister, but I seem like the rest of the rapporteurs that the minister came around very well on the subject. However, we can all agree that it is quite unacceptable that, in particular, public employees in their work should be subjected to violence. And we must constantly be aware of how best to prevent this at work, through accident prevention, supervision and some of the many other tools that can be used in prevention and already working with. When the accident is out anyway, we need to have a strong focus on picking up the individual in order to maintain its full attachment to the labour market. In the Left, we believe that real compensation for occupational injury is that you do not fall out of the labour market. In other words, we need to have an effort to support the individual in maintaining the full link with the labour market. However, if you have suffered permanent but or occupational loss, you must, like others who have suffered occupational injuries, have your compensation under the Labour Damage Act on an objective basis. In addition, the vast majority of employees who are at risk of exposure to violence at their workplace will typically be covered by the civil servant law to receive wages during illness. The employees are therefore already relatively well covered if the accident is out. Although I have a great deal of sympathy for the aim of the resolution, we must carefully consider whether putting forward long-term claims, which will typically only deal with small amounts in addition to occupational injury insurance, is really in the interests of the individual. Much research points to the fact that the longer you are in a process of replacement, the more difficult it is to get back into the labour market. And this is definitely not beneficial to the health and quality of life of the individual. In addition, a large and comprehensive report was prepared in December 2014 with recommendations for a new work injury system by the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee. It may be natural in the follow-up to this work to examine whether there is a need to change the rules in relation to public employment, for example. may be able to take out a business insurance scheme in line with private companies. With these arguments, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145142	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur of the Left. It is from Bent Bøgsted, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145147	Thank you, President. What I would like to ask the Left is what was also explained a little by the Minister, namely that there are a lot of substitutes. But we do have a group on the labour market working with children and adults who have so much trouble that they do not always know what they are doing. And in those cases, municipalities cannot simply force people to take out liability insurance. They typically don't have any liability insurance. And if it is the case that you have to be compensated, you have to start a civil action. Then it is a police report, as the Minister said, but it is also up to you to report perhaps a child of 12-14 years of age or 10 years or an adult who is so brain-damaged that you do not know what you are doing and then engage in violence against the person looking after him. Does the rapporteur not see that there is a gap in the legislation on that particular group?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145258	I hope, in my rapporteur's speech on behalf of the Left, that we have a great deal of sympathy with the intention of this motion for a resolution. But I am forced to point out that under the Civil Service Act you get paid during illness. So that's how you get compensated. I am also obliged to mention that if you are a private or public employee, if you are an ordinary citizen at work or if you go to town on a Saturday night, you are also entitled to compensation from the Compensation Board. What we have to be careful about is what I'm going to say to Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, is that we do not go in and rank the various occupational injuries. The conditions described here by the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party are, of course, very glaring, but all occupational injuries are glaring. It is a question of ensuring that the individual still has a link with the labour market. We should not go in and say that some work injuries are worse than others, and that therefore there is a right of priority. All work injuries are bad, and we must avoid them at all costs. The municipalities are also self-insurers, and it does of course mean that if you have to enter and take out insurance, it is the municipality in the first place. But I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that, if we are going to look at some recommendations from the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee, it would be natural that this should also be discussed here in the circle which will hopefully be very wide-ranging. So there is full understanding of the problem. This is just not the right way to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145433	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145437	Thank you. It is very good that the rapporteur revolves around getting full pay as an official. To me, not many of the members of the FOA are employed as white collar workers again. They're employed as employees around here. It may also be that they are employed as disabled workers around, and there you are not employed as an employee. If you enter a private place of work and have a relationship under the law on occupational injury, you will receive a full compensation, including for lost earnings. But you don't do that in this area. The rapporteur must be able to see that there is an imbalance that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145519	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145521	Then maybe the cat got out of the bag. I am well aware that the FOA and some replacement lawyers have been very advanced in advocating this proposal. However, as I said before, we should not go into that ball street where it is said that some work injuries are worse than others. This is all about focusing on the employee, private or public employee who has been injured, in order to ensure that they do not lose their link with the labour market. I have also opened the way for us to discuss the recommendations of the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee, and we will take this with us. But it is important to say that it is the employers who are responsible for the working environment, and therefore it is not something on which we should start to legislate too much. We have just reached a settlement in which we have committed the social partners to meeting the challenges of the labour market. And we have to hold on to that. For in here we can adopt a thousand things about the Danish labour market and the working environment. We can create the framework, but we can't solve the challenges out there. The parties must do so, and we must hold them to that. The Danish labour market deserves this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145629	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145633	I must admit that it may well be that it is because I am not the labour market rapporteur but stand here as the social rapporteur and legal rapporteur. This is, of course, a problem which is not just about the working environment of the person employed, where Mr. Bent Bøgsted is, moreover, right that it is mostly FOA members and not employee employees, but also about the citizen who is in public custody and who may have some sort of outgoing behaviour, for example. because of a brain injury or because of major psychological and social problems and which can therefore also be violent in its behaviour. Now the rapporteur is asking whether this is the right way, but can we not agree that the proposal we are dealing with right now is not actually about correcting it in a certain way, but about drawing up a report on the various possible solutions that could be applied if we want to ensure that public employees who are exposed to violence in the workplace can also be compensated for pain and pain and lost earnings?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145745	I agree with what the motion for a resolution proposes. But I would like to point out that when this is going under the Employment Committee and it is the employment rapporteurs who stand here, with the exception of the Enhedslisten, I can understand that it is, of course, an employment angle that we have shown when we come up here. I would just like to point out that, if you are injured in the Danish labour market, there are similar rules for everyone who is injured and that we do not start to rank the occupational injuries according to type of injury, how the injury occurred, etc. One who is injured in the Danish labour market is one too much. But that is why you are entitled to have your case dealt with in the same way as everyone else who is injured in the Danish labour market. What initiatives will then be taken in other areas I do not know, but I have also put forward in my rapporteur's speech that, when we are going to discuss the recommendations and good proposals that have come from the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee, we can take this with us. And, of course, it must be spread across a broad spectrum, so that legal certainty and the citizen's doings and barn are also taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145855	Here you go. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145857	The reason I am asking is that the rapporteur of the Left keeps saying that this is not the right way to do it. However, the motion for a resolution does not state what kind of action should be taken. A report will be asked on what options might be available. Then I just find it hard to understand why you're against it, because it's a knowledge. If you think there is a problem that needs to be solved, why not find the right knowledge? In addition, I would say that one thing is that the Left will not rank occupational injuries, but it is also the case that when you are exposed to violence at your workplace, it is not just an occupational injury. Then you are also a victim of violence. What is the problem, of course, is that you do not get the same compensation as other victims of violence who may be hit on the streets. Isn't that a problem in the Left's opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145943	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428145945	Then we come to a whole different area. Now we're talking about law and law, and I don't have any insight into that. I have insight into the area of employment. As far as I am aware, if you are struck down at your job, you can obtain compensation via the Compensation Board. This is true whether you are at work or not. And then, if you are employed in a private company, you also have the opportunity to have insurance to cover it. The municipalities are self-insured, and so are the regions. However, what is called for in the proposal is that you can be insured privately even if you are employed in a public undertaking. I've opened up that I think it's a really good idea. Let us talk about it when we are about to discuss the recommendations of the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee, but let us now look at things in context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150033	Thank you. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150035	Thank you. Now, of course, this is a subject of great concern to the trade unions of public employees, particularly in areas where there are violence and threats of violence. It is true, as Mrs Pernille Skipper mentioned a moment ago, that if you are a victim of violence and, if I may say so, an ordinary citizen, you can get some kind of compensation, but that if you are struck down at the moment you are at work, then there are things you cannot be compensated for. In other words, there is simply discrimination against victims of violence, and it does not have its reasonableness. After all, the damage suffered by the individual is equally great, whether you walk the streets as a private person or you are a public servant and you are struck down there. So I would like to ask: is it not a problem for the Left to treat victims of violence differently, depending on whether they are, if I may say so, ordinary citizens or they are public employees and at work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150135	Thank you. Left rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150138	I think that the difference lies in Mr. Eigil Andersen that I would like to keep employers very clear that it is they who are responsible for the working environment. If an employer has an employee who is struck down at work, then the employer simply has to make sure that you are compensated in all possible ways and that you still have your job. That's what I'm trying to hold on to. But if we go in and do this, we're gonna relieve employers of that responsibility a little bit. They need to sit down with the LO and secure things. The social partners simply need to find solutions to this, and it is also in the great conciliation that we have just done, namely that we need to involve the parties significantly better. Because from in here, we cannot help to ensure a good working environment. So it is out at the individual workplace that they have to. We can outline a framework, but how that framework is to be filled, we simply have to keep the social partners in line.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150235	Sir. Eigil Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150238	We agree with the effort to avoid violence and threats of violence at work, but this is about something else, because what if it happens anyway? For example: Today, a municipality cannot legally take out liability insurance for a citizen who is searched for an offer in accordance with the provisions of the Services Act, and such liability insurance could otherwise be very appropriate and necessary if the citizen did something violent to the public servant. I am incomprehensible that the Left will not help to set up a committee to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150313	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150316	We are absolutely not dismissive, we just want to see things in a context, and that is also why we are counting on and hoping that the government will soon convene discussions on the recommendations of the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee, so that we can see everything under one, so that we do not have to take it dripwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150334	Thank you. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150338	Thank you. But there is no one here who is putting up with something that is dripping. We're gonna start a full report. And some of what I could, of course, find very interesting to hear from the rapporteur of the Left was what the SF was just saying. The Left rapporteur says that employers must ensure compensation and that they have a responsibility for that. And no one agrees more than we Conservatives that this is something that needs to be done with the very clear signs of involvement by the social partners, and that is also why we are not proposing a concrete model, but a report with, among other things, a report. the involvement of them. However, when employers are going to provide this compensation and take responsibility for this, one of the ways could not be to consider giving the possibility that municipal employers too would be able to take that responsibility by, for example, to be able to take out an insurance policy that would ensure that, if you are subjected to violence by a citizen in a treatment offer, you are not treated less favourably than if you are beaten because you have gone out on Saturday night?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150447	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150450	Yes, that was easy and easy, and that is also why we in the Left want to see it all together and to wait for negotiations to be held on the conclusions of the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee. Then we'll see it all under one, and then we'll make sure we get everything right away. It may be a bit surprising that the Conservative People's Party is raising this right now, because the Conservative People's Party was sitting with us when we made a new health and safety reform. Now you cannot stand here as a speaker and ask questions, but a natural question might be: why did the Conservatives not bring this up in the negotiations? Then we could have got it handled right there, instead of waiting to be called to see it under one with the recommendations from the Jørgen Søndergaard committee. Of course, you can get smarter, but so far we hold on to the fact that we would have liked to see this under one. We are aware that there is a challenge here, but we also think that this should be done in respect of the report that the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee has presented, in that there are many other good and clear recommendations in it which the Danish labour market can benefit greatly from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150554	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150557	I'm impressed with Mr. Knox. Peter Juhl Jensen's trust in the minister and government is magnificent. I think, sir. Peter Juhl Jensen is well aware that we had tried to bring such a report into the negotiations with the form they have and with respect for various considerations etc. etc., then we would never have reached the end of the agreement we had made and then it would have had to wait incredibly long because a report had to be made before we could get anywhere at all. And that is why we chose to take some very good steps in the right direction. And that is no different from the fact that if the Left now chose to support the fact that we had this report made, we could be absolutely sure that the Minister was at least forced to make constructive contributions to some solutions which the social partners could then be involved in and take a position on, and so that we could actually get it going here rather than sitting on our hands and hoping that the Minister would call if, moreover, the Minister is not going to take part in the election campaign anytime soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150653	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150656	It may well be that the rapporteur of the Conservatives and I have listened to each of his own versions of the Minister's speech, but it did not sound to the Minister as if much effort had to be devoted to drawing the Minister to the trough. We made an incredibly fine agreement with regard to the working environment, a settlement that covers far ahead and is incredibly visionary and opens up an incredible amount on the Danish labour market. One of the things contained in the agreement is that we were very much obliged to the parties to ensure that some quantum leaps can be made when it comes to the working environment in Denmark. That is why I think we should try to maintain that we must move forward along the same path; we must move forward in agreement; we must move forward with the recommendations that come from the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee and the conclusions that they have come up with not only in this area, but overall, in that there are a great many positive things in the report that the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee has brought forward, which will help to raise the Danish labour market. That's why we'd like to see it under one. We shouldn't just take a chunk because some parties are on their way to campaigning.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428150817	Thank you. It is the position of the Social Democrats that it should be safe, safe and healthy to go to work everywhere in Denmark. Most Danes are so happy to go to work. That, of course, must remain the case. In future, we must remain even longer in the labour market, and this requires that the conditions under which we work are also in order. The government has taken initiatives to ensure a good working environment in Denmark, and although we have come a long way, creating a better working environment remains a high priority. We must recognise that we will not be in a situation where there are no accidents on the labour market. This applies both to situations that cause physical and psychological damage. We must do everything we can to prevent this, but we also know that it will happen. In addition to focusing on prevention, part of the work is about focusing on what happens when the accident has occurred, because it is also a crucial part of a safe working environment. The motion for a resolution focuses precisely on the conditions of the worker once the damage has been done. The proposal instructs the government to draw up a basis for decision ensuring fair treatment of employees exposed to outgoing behaviour by the citizens with whom they work. Specifically, the proposers point out that the Work Damage Protection Act as it stands today does not cover compensation for pain and pain, lost earnings and other conditions. This means that both public and private employees today face a difficult dilemma if such a situation arises, because if they are to be reasonably compensated for any damage, it requires the employee to bring a case against the citizen, and this is basically an inappropriate situation. It is based on the fact that neither the citizen nor the workplace has any rules on liability insurance. That is why the Socialists also recognise that there is a problem that needs to be addressed. In December, the Government received a number of recommendations from a committee of experts in the field of occupational injuries on possible changes to the rules on occupational injuries and occupational injuries. Against this background, the Minister for Employment has invited the social partners to take part in the work on a new occupational injury system. It is then thought that the parties of the Folketing have the opportunity to discuss the outcome of the trialogue. We want to stick to that. For the Socialists, it makes sense for us to organise the process in this way. In the context of the discussions, it would be natural if better opportunities for occupational injuries to which the proposal relates were to be addressed. This is already in line with some of the recommendations of the expert group. Although we share the intentions of the motion for a resolution, the government has initiated a process which must end with an improved system of occupational injury. It would therefore not be appropriate to initiate a new process, as the motion for a resolution calls for. With that said, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151135	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151141	Thank you. Well, it is understood that the Social Democrats cannot support the fact that people who work with severely brain-damaged people who react with violence because they cannot explain themselves to those who are going to help them can be compensated, that is to say, that a system should not be created so that they can be compensated. That is how I understand what the Social Democrat rapporteur says, namely that it should be put in a committee, and then we must see whether the parties can agree on a new insurance for occupational injury or compensation for that group here. Because there is a big difference between how it is done in the labour market, that is, whether it is done in a company or whether it is done to help someone who is severely brain damaged and who is very outgoing and cannot explain himself. It's the compensation system, so you have to sue and report it to the police. It's your business to report someone who can't explain why you do what you do. Does the rapporteur not think that it is right that there should be rules for compensation for loss of earnings if you are on sick leave? I guess you can be on sick leave for a long time because of mental influence. It doesn't have to be the case that you get permanent, but because you've been attacked by someone, but if you come back, it might happen again. Does the rapporteur not think that it is right that there should be proper conditions so that you can get the same compensation as one in the private labour market, for example? Out in a factory, can get?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151309	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151311	Yes, I certainly think so, and I hope that was shown in my speech too. So what I'm dealing with is the process of how it's supposed to be, how we get to that. That is where I say that the work that is under way, I think the government should finish. Then there will be a proposal to cover what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is describing here. Because I fully agree: that is not right, as is happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151338	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151341	Does this mean that the rapporteur says that there is a process going on that leads to exactly the same thing? Then I'd like to know when it's coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151352	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151355	I look forward to the work under way being completed on the other side of an election, and I look forward to a proposal coming forward on how it might look, that is to say a proposal to resolve this problem outlined in the resolution. On the Socialist side, we fully agree that this problem must be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151418	Thank you. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151423	It can be said that the report referred to here by the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee on the industrial injury insurance system came, as I recall, in December, and we now have the month of May. What is going on in this context? Well, it seems to me that there is something that suggests that it should be speeded up at least. However, I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether the Social Democrats are prepared for the municipalities to be able to take out liability insurance in future which covers those citizens who behave violently against public servants. That would be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151500	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151502	In any case, we know that, as it is now, the local authority does not allow the municipalities to take out such insurance. I do not want to stand on the platform and say that it should be in a certain way, but I do not want to reject it either, because I think it may be the tool that may be needed if it is to be found a solution to this. What is crucial is that we put an end to the situation in which there are now employees in public companies who cannot obtain compensation, which you can get if you are in a private company.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151531	Sir. Eigil Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151534	This issue, as I mentioned earlier, is a great deal of concern to a number of the large trade unions which have public employees as members, because it concerns their members and, in my opinion, it is quite complex. I therefore believe that the proposal that has been made here and that the SF is helping to put forward with several other parties to set up a committee of experts to dig it up is the right way to do it. That is why I should like to ask: do I understand correctly that it is simply thought that these complex legal and practical issues which are at issue should be resolved by the political discussions that need to be held?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151613	It is the rapporteur again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151615	No, I'm not trying to say that either. What I am saying is that there are some trialogues, and there it is natural that the federations, like Mr. Eigil Andersen is referring to here, also contributing the knowledge they have in the negotiations, so that we can examine the options available to solve the problem which has indeed been pointed out in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151636	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151641	Thank you. Then maybe I don't quite understand that process, and maybe I'll ask the question one more time for Prince Canute and for me. The process that has been initiated then means that there will be clarification of the many different solutions that have been at stake in this area. Of course, I acknowledge that the Socialists can see the problem. It is very important, it is very nice, and it also applies to the Minister for Employment, but there is both an opportunity to change the power of local authority and an opportunity to change the practice of the Compensation Board. And there's an opportunity to make some other insurance schemes for public employees who have this particular working environment. It can also be said that it can end up with either the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, the Minister for Justice or the Minister for Employment. Moreover, it has already been a little difficult to put in the process. If all these possibilities are clarified, are they simply set up and assessed together so that we have something to decide on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151745	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151747	Now I do not know the process in detail, but I am sure that the people who are going to talk about this will try to put them up against each other and ask: what is legally possible and what is practically possible? I can only say that I have the expectation that there will be a solution to this. Because no one can be served by that, at least in the Social Democratic Party, we agree that the situation we have at the moment continues.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151810	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left. Here you go. I'm not quite sure if sir. Bent Bøgsted will be rapporteur in the end. That's what I was told. No, sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428151859	Thank you, President. There can easily be misunderstandings when it is the same rapporteur who has to give the rapporteur's speech and then is also the rapporteur for the proposers. It will be all right, and I hope that the President will keep a close eye on my time in that situation. The problem here is precisely that there are a great many employees, especially in the public sector, who work with clients, where some may be severely brain damaged, it may be autists who are not really aware of how they react, or it may be disabled people who do not know how they react. In this context, violence can easily be committed because they have some reactions which may not be intended but which come automatically because the client is unable to formulate himself properly. This creates some problems for public employees, that is to say those who are to help them, and can lead to long-term illness, because it can also lead to something mentally important it doesn't have to be permanent but, but it can lead to something mentally important and it can lead to some damage that can be done to the individual, the clothes can be ripped apart in such situations, and you can get some nervousness when it comes to meeting your client again. That is why, of course, the proposers also believe that we should be able to provide proper compensation to the employees who go in and work with people who have problems. You know in advance that it is very difficult to work with those who cannot express themselves in the right way. Therefore, it cannot be compared with the ordinary labour market, but there is a tendency to do so where it is actually said: this is a matter of occupational injury, it is a matter of the Working Environment Act, and it has to come up in tripartite negotiations. However, tripartite negotiations are usually between the government and the union and employers. The municipalities are not really in the picture there, at least not as far as I am aware. This is not the big problem in private jobs, but it is where the employees work, you can say clients who cannot express themselves, who are outgoing, and therefore it is necessary to provide the right funds • perhaps they can take out liability insurance so that you can get compensation for lost earnings. This is really just about putting those who are covered by occupational injury insurance on an equal footing in the normal way, and then those who work with people who are outgoing and where they are subjected to violence. I do not believe that this violence is so widespread again in the private labour market, it is more in the public sector. We also know that, of course, they also have problems with violence in the workplace. There are many places, but you just have to be careful not to say that this is in general. Some specific groups are particularly vulnerable, and we must, of course, take that into account. I hope that we can obtain broad support for this proposal. We have heard that the Minister will bring something. It is just incomprehensible why nothing is happening, and that is why this proposal has been put forward. Why isn't something happening? There was a report in December, and then we have to go and wait. When we put forward the proposal, it is said that something must now also happen when the government has come so far that it can review the report that has come and make a proposal. In the Danish People's Party, we do not have much faith that this is happening immediately. We have to hope, then, that the Minister's words stand up to believers. I certainly hope that the proposal will receive the support of more than the four parties behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152316	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152321	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. We can agree that this is serious and that something needs to be done about it. But I need to hear about something. If, as a public servant of an institution, you are defeated, is it not possible to obtain compensation in what is called the Compensation Board?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152348	After all, it takes you to sue someone who strikes you, but if it is someone who is severely brain-damaged and outgoing and cannot explain himself, it may be up to you to sue him. Therefore, it was better that there were arranged conditions that there was a liability insurance that covered so that it could be covered. I don't think sir. Peter Juel Jensen himself thinks it's fun to drag someone who's seriously brain damaged through a trial.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152417	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152421	Thank you. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that it will not be good. But the municipalities are self-insured, so what prevents the municipalities from compensating for this in the case of an employee who has experienced this at their workplace, so that if you get knocked down, if you get your clothes destroyed, etc., you get compensation similar to what has now happened? What prevents the municipalities from ensuring that as an employee they receive the compensation they are now entitled to?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152457	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152458	This is a very good question that comes from Mr. Peter Juel Jensen, because none of those who have been subjected to violence can really explain that they are not being compensated. That is why it is necessary for there to be firm rules as to how this situation is to be dealt with. Apparently, they do not get compensation for clothes that have been destroyed, they do not seem to get compensation for lost earnings. Then it may be, sir. Peter Juel Jensen says that there is nothing to stop the municipalities from giving the compensation, but they obviously do not do so at least not everywhere. I do not have any figures on how many people have received that compensation, but at least a great many have not received it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152537	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152542	Thank you. I can start by saying, as I said from the platform, that we in the Socialist Group fully agree with the issue raised here. I'm actually just gonna check in with Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, if it is not the case that in the Danish People's Party it is also a good thing that on such an issue as this one involves the social partners in the discussion that is, as is actually being done at the moment by the government, to ensure that you get an agreement that is both balanced but also that you have the support of both employers and employees because all corners are covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152616	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152617	Yeah, but a lot of it, like sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen talks about here is how to prevent violence. We are in complete agreement on this. When agreements are reached between the two sides of industry, Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen then guarantee that all parties will be involved so that it is not just the LO and DA who will be sitting in the negotiations? This is what is usually characteristic of the social partners, so it is the LO and DA. But it is right that the trade unions and an area such as this should be included. FOA is directly represented in such some negotiations. It is not fair that it is the municipalities that have what is represented in the negotiations. I'm not gonna be smart about how many people are being called in for these negotiations. If you could make sure that all those affected by it were included in such negotiations on how it should be made, then that is an option. It is possible, they participate in advance, I shall not immediately make myself aware whether everyone is with or is just represented by some others in the LO.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152732	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152734	So, I fully agree that the parties that have the relevant information, those who are involved and know something about this, are the ones who should be present. As far as I am concerned, I know that the FOA is a member of the LO, and it is just as natural that they should be taken along. But I am just whispered in the ear by the Minister that the FTF, the KL, the regions are also involved in this. Now I am answering questions from the rapporteur, and that is quite right, but does it not give an answer as to whether it is really covered in relation to having a proper discussion and debate on how this should be done in a proper way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152809	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152811	Well, it doesn't matter if something happens, but now it's gone since December, and nothing has happened. If there is then an agreement that they can be compensated for damaged clothes and for lost earnings, then that will be a bright spot. There is just no immediate indication of that. But that's just what we're waiting for. That is also what this proposal proposes, namely that there should be clarification as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152841	Thank you to the rapporteur. As there is a small time problem for Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, she has been allowed to appear in the rapporteur's series. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428152851	Thank you very much for that, President and the other rapporteurs. On the conservative side, we are co-sponsors of this proposal because we believe that it is quite obvious that it is unfair not to get the same compensation when you are exposed to violence at work and thus treated less favourably than if you are exposed to the same thing on the open street or because you have been involved in something on a bar on Saturday night. Normally, it is not the case that as an employee you are exposed to customers beating you or that the suppliers rip your clothes off, but you work at a residence or residence for example. In other words, very sick, mentally unstable persons or criminals are part of everyday life. This is known, and of course both management and employees are trying to equip themselves to handle this in the best way possible. Nevertheless, no matter how professional an approach you have to this, sometimes it happens in places where you work with some of the most vulnerable and violent citizens. Therefore, it can cause not only physical damage and damaged clothes, but also really bad situations that can cause lasting physical or psychological damage. Sometimes things can go completely wrong in situations where the perpetrator can in no way be said to be in his right mind and therefore may not even be legally held responsible for his own actions, but that does not change the fact that the damage has been done and that one helper, for example. have been subjected to quite serious abuse. That is why we also consider it quite reasonable that public institutions should be in line with, for example, the European Parliament. private kindergartens must be able to take out liability insurance on behalf of users, such as: a teacher should not drag a severely disabled person through the judicial system in order to get the compensation that would have been paid if he had been knocked down on Saturday night. It is absolutely unworthy, and it is not for the benefit of the disabled or the educator in any way whatsoever. It should also be remembered that this staff is being subjected to violence by people whom they are otherwise trying to take care of, and that it is their calling in life to help these people and to look after their welfare. So it's really hard, also psychologically, to have to run a civil trial. Moreover, it is also quite unreasonable to drive through it, since it is actually a working relationship. But there are a great many complexities in this, and that is precisely why the resolution does not ask for a fixed and finished solution that we have been working together, but precisely for a comprehensive report which makes it clear how to solve these dilemmas, because nobody can be served by the debate, and that is what the debate bears the stamp of the fact that things are as they are today. It must be possible to do better, and we hope that we can get support for this, and at least there is evidence that there is also a sensitivity around other parties. There is sometimes an advantage in putting forward this kind of motion for a resolution, because it can sometimes encourage the sensitivity around us, including in other parties, to get these things sorted out. Let me make it quite clear that this is, of course, a question where we need to involve the social partners. I am also so much the labour market rapporteur, and I have always stood on this platform and said that we must leave as much to the social partners as possible. But one of the problems that has been raised here, namely the possibility of taking out these assurances, is that of local authority, and the social partners do not have any influence on it. That is why it requires to be seen here as a larger overall picture, where the social partners can contribute with theirs, but where the rest of us will therefore probably also contribute with ours. That is why we are recommending that we have a comprehensive report and resolve it here, because, frankly, no one can think that it is fair as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153309	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153312	Thank you. I just need to hear something from the rapporteur. If you are now a public servant of one of the institutions described by the rapporteur and you are unfortunately being defeated, is it not possible to obtain compensation from the Compensation Board?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153330	There is an opportunity to go through the general rules on occupational injury. However, if you had been knocked down outside the workplace, on the streets, you do not have the same opportunity to receive compensation because of the municipal authority. In fact, we do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153348	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153353	I do not think that is correct. So it is with the Compensation Board that it was set up, because unfortunately many are being beaten down and you never find a perpetrator. In other words, in order to obtain compensation from the Compensation Board, there is no need for civil proceedings at all. That's the whole point of the Compensation Board. If you have been subjected to violence, you have the opportunity to receive compensation. In addition, I also think that we should try to keep the municipalities firm that they are the employers; they are the ones who must ensure that there is a good working environment; they are the ones who must ensure that employees are treated in a good and proper manner and receive the compensation they need and claim if they are exposed to a bad working environment at their workplace. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153439	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153440	As I also said in my question to Mr. Peter Juel Jensen, I also believe that we should hold employers responsible to ensure the good working environment. That's just not what this is about. I also believe that we should hold them responsible for taking care of the consequences when things go wrong, but there is only the fact that according to a reply from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, the local authority actually prevents the public employers from taking that responsibility by, among others. to take out the insurance. It's just one of those corners it's worth looking at in that report.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153508	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper with a brief comment to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153515	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that what is the problem with the victim compensation board, as is mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left, is that the victim compensation board has decided that if you have a job with, among other things. We have accepted the risk, as they say, and that citizens, because they suffer from severe diseases or problems in other ways, do not have a purpose like everyone else, and that is why compensation is reduced in the victim compensation board if a public servant comes there and asks for compensation. So when the Left tries to wipe this problem off on the victim's compensation board, it must be said that the public employees have tried to do so before they went to the members of the Folketing. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153604	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153606	I'm not the legal rapporteur, but that's about how I got it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153612	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153622	Thank you. Let me begin by stating that I fully acknowledge the issues that this resolution wishes to highlight. At the moment we are discussing with the social partners the possibilities of a more modern and modern system of occupational injury. These discussions and discussions are based on the recommendations of the Committee of Experts on Occupational Injury of December 2014. The Committee shall have, inter alia: recommended the introduction of the possibility of compensation for pain and pain and compensation for loss of earnings. To the extent that the recommendations are followed, the problem of compensation for people who have been subjected to violence at work will be significantly reduced. Against this background, bearing in mind what the Minister also very rightly said, I think it is most natural that we await the discussions between the parties and the subsequent political discussions before considering launching new initiatives. Let me say even more clearly: it is my clear view that the negotiations of the social partners are progressing and that we have reason to be optimistic. If that happens and we hope, of course, that it does not end up in a solution, then it is clear that we need to look at it here. For that is clear: a solution must be found on the table. On the basis of what I have just said, the Government cannot at this stage support motion for a resolution No. B 79.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153814	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153821	Should I understand that the radical rapporteur actually says that we should not deal with this in any way until the government comes up with a proposal on the basis of the report which came in December that until then we should not deal with this, but wait for the government to talk with the social partners?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153850	No, I think it's nice and perfectly obvious that we're discussing it. That is also why we are here today. It gives all of us an opportunity to find a solution and that is what I am laying down here, that is to say we are interested in it. It gives us the opportunity to discuss this and become even sharper that it is important to find a solution. But I think it is important that we wait for the work that has been started. I also believe that this is the best basis on which to make a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153915	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153918	It was just because it may well be that there were a few words I did not just catch, because when I was listening to the rapporteur's speech, it seemed as if it was a more pronounced rejection of the proposal than we have heard from the Social Democrats and the Left, who, after all, had a little favorable about it. I do not think there was much of that from Radicals, and that is why I ask whether it is just such a blank rejection. Now I hear that the rapporteur says: well, we can discuss it, but it is not something that really worries Radicals very much. That's how I sense it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428153958	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428154002	Well, I am sorry that the rapporteur senses it that way. That is by no means the case, that is, from our point of view. We fully recognise those issues, as I started by saying. We ourselves are also concerned when situations arise where the employees who have been subjected to violence or threats do not receive the compensation that I believe they should receive, even if there are different ways of obtaining compensation. I also believe that it should appear more clearly that it is the employer's responsibility to provide for his employees, not only when it comes to repairing, but also when it comes to preventing. Overall, I just did not want to repeat many of the things that the Minister had said very well in advance. But there's full government agreement on this. I hope that is a little clearer now for the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428154056	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428154111	I think it is very serious that if something happens to a municipal car, a vehicle, it is relatively better insured than a municipal employee who is subjected to violence. This is not a sustainable situation. With regard to the possibility of other replacements, I would like to mention an example I have here with a primary school teacher who was beaten and kicked by a 13-year-old student. The Compensation Board has sought compensation from, and they believe that this was an educational conflict that developed and they would not provide compensation. This means, therefore, that a teacher or another public servant in such sectors simply has to accept that they can be beaten more than other people in society. That's not fair. Well, we need school teachers, and we need SOSU employees. There are also elderly dementes who beat SOSU employees. All the functions of society must be filled. As a society, we need them, and in some cases it is becoming violent. There I have to say that we in the SF think it is reasonable that it should be the case that, as a public servant, we are regarded as victims of violence to the full, just as if we were walking on the streets as a random citizen. That is why it is wrong as it works now, and it is thus an entirely unsustainable situation. The motion for a resolution describes that, if you are just kicked, nodded or beaten from the back of the street, you can usually expect compensation through the judicial system; there you can get compensation. However, if you are a public servant, it is not certain that you will actually get quite a lot more than the insurance for accidents at work, which is different from the compensations that are involved if you are subjected to violence and go to the Compensation Board. So it is simply not reasonable that, if I may say so, we should settle for an occupational injury insurance scheme which everyone is given, even in those professions where we are not subjected to violence. When you are subjected to violence, there has been extra damage, and this, of course, justifies receiving compensation, as an ordinary victim of violence, if I may say so. This case, as has also been highlighted in several speeches from the platform, is very complicated. It has also been mentioned and it is true that if it is to be resolved, it must involve both the Ministry of Justice in relation to the compensation rules, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior in relation to the municipal mandate and the Ministry of Employment, whose minister is present today. I have to say that I believe that the most reassuring way of doing this will be by doing what the motion for a resolution says, namely to set up a committee with relevant experts and interest groups. And the organisations mentioned here in the motion for a resolution are the Alzheimer's Association, the Danish Employers' Association, the Danish Regions, the Compensation Board, the FOA, Insurance & Pension, the FTF, the National Association of the Municipalities, the National Association of the LEV, the National Attorney General, the National Police Department, the SIND and the National Association of Social Pedagogues. Lawyers are also mentioned who specialize in these cases. I think that will be the most reassuring method to use, because it is something that goes much further than just the question of ordinary occupational injury insurance and the problems that can be discussed in this context. If this is to make sense in the light of what the rapporteurs of the governing parties and the rapporteur of the Left have said, I think it is necessary to say that it is promised that this problem will be resolved through the method used, namely that there are tripartite negotiations and subsequent political discussions. Then a promise must be made that this inequality, which is for victims of violence, depending on whether you are an ordinary citizen or a public servant, will be abolished. I have heard some declarations of intent in this direction, that is to say that it is in this direction that we are working. But I would very much like to call for it to be said with a very, very clear text that this discrimination against victims of violence, depending on whether it is a public servant who is subjected to violence in this regard, or an ordinary citizen, promises to be brought to an end when it comes to this report by the Jørgen Søndergaard Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428154610	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428154618	If employees on e.g. A social residence or a residence is subject to violence by one of the residents, it is an occupational injury, and it is a case of violence, in other words both. In practice, however, public servants cannot be paid the same compensation for pain and loss of earnings if they are subjected to violence at their workplace that other citizens could have if they were not at work when they were attacked. Even if the civil servant has the case on the victim compensation board, you will not be able to get the same compensation because it has established that if you work with citizens who have an outgoing behaviour, for example. Because of a brain injury, another physical handicap, or because of major social problems, which also exist for some outgoing young people, and it could also be people with an abuse, one has been aware of the risk, and then there is not really any intention on the part of the citizen; the citizen does not do so on purpose, but has some circumstances surrounding their situation that make them react as they do. Therefore, the public servant cannot receive the same compensation as a person who, for example, is being beaten down on the street. This could then be solved if the municipality took care to take out liability insurance for residents such as: is in residences or otherwise in the custody of the municipality, but this cannot be done because it would be contrary to the municipal authority of the municipalities to assume responsibility for the harmful behaviour of citizens. So that option is also out of the question. In the end, a public servant has to bring civil proceedings against the citizen and claim compensation under the Civil Liability Act if you are to have the same compensation for pain and pain as any other citizen who is subjected to violence. First of all, it is not fair that you, as a public servant, do not have the same conditions as everyone else. Secondly, it is also not fair that you should either report or prosecute a citizen who has some sort of out-of-action behaviour. This will mean dragging a citizen through a very hard and confusing legal system for them to obtain compensation. It could also, as we hear from many of the public employees in institutions, harm educational work, for example, if we are to face each other in a cold trial and then have to continue a relationship for the citizen and as part of the employee's work. We do not believe that this is something we can offer to public employees. It is employees who work with citizens who have as many challenges in life as these people have and who are doing a huge amount of work on behalf of all of us, and they love their work. Everyone I have met thinks it is quite fantastic, even if it involves an incredibly low salary, I would say, and even if they are more exposed than others to the risk of violence in their work. They must, of course, like everyone else, have the compensation to which they are entitled. It's not something you just have to neglect. If you do that, then I do not think you have any understanding of the great and important work they are doing. It is clearly the position of Enhedslisten that the best solution at present. would be to allow municipalities to take out liability insurance on behalf of citizens who are in their custody and who are searched for offers under the Services Act and who therefore have an out-of-date behavior. But it's extremely complicated matter. In fact, it took us several months, in cooperation with the other motion for a resolution, to find out which minister could possibly help us with this problem, because it is, of course, something that lies both in the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. We believe, as a starting point, that part of the solution to this can lie with the social partners, but it is also something that is quite simply about the fact that, as a society, we have rules that properly address the victims of violence. That is why we would have liked to have started this analysis of the various solutions so that we could have the best possible, but we have also heard that there is good will in the government, and that is, of course, the positive thing we need to focus on today, so we take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155131	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak... yes, sir. I think Bent Bøgsted wants to, and Mr. Bøgsted wants to. Bent Bøgsted wants to quit? Yeah. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155158	Thank you very much. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is to instruct the government to draw up a report on various solutions that support workers' ability to obtain compensation when they have been subjected to violence at work. We think the intention is really good. In other words, it is, of course, primarily a question of focusing on countering the emergence of violence in the labour market. I know that a great deal is being done for this, both in the public sector and in the private sector. And many of the solutions we really think are best if they are found in jobs. We cannot support this resolution because it is, of course, a question of drawing up another report. And since there is work going on right now, which is about finding solutions, we think it is rather untimely that we in the Danish Parliament should start another report in this area. We do not think that is necessary. If it is the case that the parties have specific solutions which they believe will address some of the problems that may be, then bring them to the market, and then we can talk about them. However, the preparation of another report is not something that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155326	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Then there is a brief comment from the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155340	I just feel the need to clarify this debate which, incidentally, has been a good debate, I would like to emphasise. In order for there to be no doubt at all about this, I would like to say that I have heard all the parties, including the governing parties, recognise the problem raised in the motion for a resolution by the four parties. And what we have tried to say very precisely is that negotiations are currently taking place on the basis of the Jørgen Søndergaard report on occupational injuries. It is actually relatively far advanced. I don't think we're gonna finish until summer, but I think it's done after summer. What is clear is that this problem is a real problem. And if this problem isn't solved when the work is done, well, then the problem is still gone, and then it has to be solved in another way. However, I believe that this can actually be resolved in the work we are currently doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155430	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155434	I would like to ask the Minister for Employment whether it is the case that the Minister will simply promise that there will be a solution where victims of violence, who are public employees, and their means of compensation, are equated with if, as a normal citizen, you are subjected to violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155458	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155500	I'd like to say to Mr. Eigil Andersen, that I won't go into that kind of detail at this point even though it's not a detail. What is my clear point here is that all the parties in the Folketing have recognised that there is a problem here. Then we are a few parties who have said that we agree with that, but we actually think that there is an opportunity to resolve it in the dialogue, the negotiation that is with the social partners, where all the parties are present. There, too, we believe that we will succeed in resolving this problem. If this is not the case against expectation, then the problem is still there and it must be resolved. And exactly what the solution, if any, should be, I will refrain from being detailed about today. Of course, a solution must be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155543	Thank you. Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155545	As the Minister himself says, this is not really a detail. That is the main point of this debate. I mean, if I walk on the street and get knocked down, I have some replacement options. And I'm taking a risk walking on the street. If I'm a public servant and I get knocked down by my work, I'm hit in two ways. On the one hand, I have been subjected to violence, and on the other hand, I have suffered an occupational injury. Of course, I must be compensated for the damage caused by work, and so do I, but my question remains: will the Minister promise that, as a public servant and victim of violence, if you walk the streets as a normal citizen and victim of violence, you will be treated equally?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155624	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155627	I'd like to say to Mr. Eigil Andersen, that is exactly what the whole debate here today has been about where the resolution is clear and where the parties that are not behind the resolution have recognised the problem and that a solution must be found to it. I am just saying that I think we will find it in the negotiations that are currently under way. If, contrary to expectations, this is not the case, the problem is not gone, and then it has to be resolved in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155649	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155658	Thank you, President. I think I will start by saying thank you to Enhedslisten, SF and Conservatives for cooperating on this motion for a resolution. I think we have had a very good debate here today, and it is not the case that the resolution has been rejected by any party. So it is positive and many positive statements have been made. I think there may be some misunderstandings as to how the whole system works, because there is the fact that a municipality cannot take out liability insurance if one of the clients is under the provisions of the Services Act. Then you can't take out liability insurance for the citizen. That, then, is what may seem to be some misunderstandings about. What I am taking for good goods from the Minister is that a solution is being found to the problems of those who work with citizens who have particular problems. I think we've come a long way. And we have received a clear statement from the Minister here in the end that the problems will be solved. And if they are not resolved in the trialogue negotiations, the Minister is prepared to find a solution. I'll take that for good. After all, we do not know who will be in government after an election. Maybe it's another minister. We don't know. And we don't know what color the minister is either. However, I think there is such broad support that whatever government we have after an election, there is a basis for finding a solution to this problem. I feel that there are commitments from all parties, namely that no matter how a solution is to be found. I would like to thank you for the good debate and I look forward to the outcome that will come at some point. Then it's just the question when it's coming. The Minister cannot say that now and here, but it will come in the near future. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155905	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155907	Thank you. It might be interesting to hear what the rapporteur sees as the role of municipalities in all this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155915	The fact is that the municipalities are employers for many of the people who are subjected to violence. It is the municipalities that are employers, so of course they play a major role. Among those who are victims of violence, there may also be people who work as disabled workers and who are directly employed by the disabled person. So, of course, municipalities play a major role as employers in this regard, but there is just the fact that they cannot take out liability insurance because of the fact that the citizen is subject to the provisions of the Services Act. It's such a problem that needs to be dealt with if we're going to solve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155950	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428155952	Is it not the case, then, that the state and the municipalities are called self-insurers? I believe that a good pool of money is reserved in the state if insurance problems arise in relation to state equipment. I guess the municipalities are doing the same thing. that they place a pool of money, and then you have the opportunity as a municipality to go in and compensate, so that you live up to the responsibilities that you have as a municipal employer and ensure your employees the best possible. So I guess the municipalities have a part to play in all this, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160020	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160022	Yes, they do, but apparently there are a lot of people who can't get that compensation paid, and then we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160028	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160045	The debate is open. First, the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160116	First of all, thank you for being able to deal with the two motions for resolutions together, which also makes sense. It may well be said that this question has to be said gradually to be such an old acquaintance on the agenda here in the Folketing. This is an issue that has been discussed in connection with the financial laws of recent years, in the spring of B 93, and most recently in the Employment Committee we have had a conciliation where it has also been discussed. The government's position on working clauses is very clear: we are in favour of this. We see working clauses as an important element in the effort to prevent social dumping. Since the government came to power, it has been our top priority to put an end to social dumping. This is among other things. have been made possible by the Finance Act agreements we have concluded with the Enhedslisten. I'd like to sign for that. The government, together with Enhedslisten and SF, has already taken a large number of initiatives to ensure that we continue to have fair ground rules on the Danish labour market. We have increased the use of clauses, among others. by requiring state companies to use working clauses in all public procurement of construction projects by removing the threshold of 37.5 million. kr. and by increasing the use of work clauses in both municipalities and regions. More than 670 million have been set aside. kr. to strengthen the authorities' efforts from 2012 onwards, and we have increased control in the workplace, where we have, of course, just strengthened cooperation between the police, the SKAT and the Labour Inspectorate. We have tightened up the requirements for registration of foreign companies and we have strengthened the sanctions; we have strengthened the efforts in the cleaning industry with control and the introduction of responsibilities; and we have allocated funds to combat and control illegal goods transport. The use of working clauses is one of the effective means of combating social dumping. Therefore, and precisely for this reason, the government and Danske Regioner and KL agreed during the economic negotiations last year that working clauses in municipalities and regions should be applied to all works contracts and other tender contracts where appropriate. In my view, this has actually worked. On 12 March this year, the KL published a study of, inter alia: the use of work clauses in the municipalities. This study shows, among other things, that 97 per cent of the population in the United Kingdom are in the Netherlands. of the municipalities use work clauses or consider adopting guidelines for their use, and that 83 per cent. of the municipalities often apply work clauses in works contracts. I think that somewhere it proves that we are on the right track, that it has been possible to increase the use of work clauses in municipalities by voluntary means. Nor do I think that it will be a great surprise for the proposers when we say in the government that we do not think it is the right way to impose working clauses on municipalities and regions. The fact is that if by law we impose working clauses on municipalities and regions, we will move exactly into an area which we traditionally leave to the social partners. If the commitment of municipalities and regions is to make sense, it must be clear from the law what working clauses should look like. If we were to legislate, we would have to state clearly in the law which part of the salary is to be included in the statement of salary for the employees employed to carry out the work in question. Salary is not something we normally legislate about in Denmark. This is a matter for the social partners. I would like to summarise how the government views the two motions for resolutions. It will not be legally possible to oblige municipalities and regions to use working clauses through circulars. It would be legally possible to oblige municipalities and regions to use working clauses through legislation on this, but the government believes that this is a bad idea because it will require legislation on pay conditions, and thus it would not be in line with the Danish model. In fact, we believe, and we also believe that it is documented that the way of volunteering works. So we cannot support the motions for resolutions, but we support, as everyone knows, the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160522	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160525	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I recognise that it is an old travert, but it will now continue to return until we convince the government that we must do something to actually secure a principle that I would like to hear if the Minister agrees: does the Minister agree that taxpayers' money should not be able to go to social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160549	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160551	I agree with that. That is also why we are doing everything we can to ensure that there are orderly conditions. That is why I think it is very good that Mr. Finn Sørensen to make this question fill really, very much in the last elections to regions and municipalities. That's why I think it's really good that I can experience around where I go in the country, that it's actually something that you're municipally preoccupied with. So there I agree that this is a way to go, and that has also proved to be effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160625	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160627	Thank you, and thank you for the rose. I now think that deliveries from the municipalities are going a little slow, because three quarters of a year ago I asked a question in which, excuse me, I ordered a statement from the Minister on what it actually looked like in the municipalities. So it didn't come here until March. The minister referred to it and this despite the fact that KL broke out with his arms and said that everything looked rosy, that almost all municipalities use work clauses. But will the Minister confirm that the same report shows that yes, when we talk about construction, there are about 90 per cent. of the municipalities, who state that they always use it or consider it, but it is only 35%. of the municipalities that use the work clauses always? This means that there are a large number of services in the municipalities which do not ensure that working clauses are applied and that proper pay and working conditions are guaranteed. Why will the Minister not be involved in ensuring that this happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160735	I am not going to confirm the figures because I do not have the report in front of me, but Mr. Finn Sørensen usually has the tickets in order, so that's probably right. And then, rhetorically, it is a good question: why does the Minister not want to be involved in securing... that is what the Minister would like to do. However, I have made it very clear that some have been involved, together with Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, putting this question on the agenda... no one discussed anything like this until we got a change of government... it's the government together with Enhedslisten and also the SF. That is why we are continuing the discussion in this area. We note that the municipalities are using this as an effective tool more and more, and I just think that this is a welcome thing, and we should all be delighted about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160819	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160823	Thank you. The Minister says that no one has discussed this area before the government came in, but perhaps it is because social dumping has become more widespread after the present government has arrived. Because there has been a sharp increase in it, so perhaps that is why it has only come on the wallpaper now. Because the convention dates back to 1955 and so it is the case that, in the territory of the state, we have to live up to it. Because the Convention states that all public contracts and public authorities must be subject to its provisions against social dumping. Then the question is: why does the Minister think it is okay to have working clauses in the territory of the State and that there is compliance with the Convention, but that in other public areas there is no need for regions and municipalities to do so. For then there is something about the social partners, says the Minister, and you should not step on your toes and you make wage formation if you do so. But you do it in the state field, it's quite okay to use work clauses. I just don't think it's connected, because in my universe, regions and municipalities are also public bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160933	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428160937	I would like to congratulate Mr Seligman on his excellent report. Bent Bøgsted resigned from his responsibility that nothing happened until we had a government responsibility, that was quite elegant, perhaps not credible, but elegant at least. Let me say that we have had a very precise and also relatively long consultation in relation to when the ILO agreement was implemented in Danish law, and then the then local and regional authorities were not included, and there is also what I have explained very precisely, that if we choose to legislate in this area, then it is that we have to take the decisive step that I do not want to take, namely that we depart from the Danish model, where the social partners are, as agreements, what pay and working conditions are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161024	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161026	I understand that the social partners do not always... [Sound emission]... pay and working conditions in the field of the state. I guess that's the conclusion you can draw. After all, work clauses can be used to the full. The social partners have been excluded from influence. That's how I interpret it. It is just a little mysterious that the Minister has said on several occasions that the government will not judge municipalities and regions to be public bodies as far as this convention is concerned. They're all the way outside. I just don't think it's connected, because of course it doesn't say "regions" or "councils," which say "public bodies." I just need the Minister to confirm that regions and municipalities are not public bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161115	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161117	If sir... Bent Bøgsted is interested in this, I would very much like to send my speech again in the context of the consultation we had, where it was made very clear in this way that when we introduced this ILO agreement into Danish legislation, it was before we were a member of the European Union and everything else, and there we did not have the regional and local authorities. That's where the dividing line is, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Legally, there is no doubt to me that this is the case, and if you want to go that way, what I think is going to be a fangango with the Danish model, and I and the government do not want to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161156	Thank you, sir. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161200	I think we have to make it clear that in Denmark today, taxpayers' money is being spent in the municipalities for social dumping, and this can be justified, among other reasons. Some of those numbers, sir. Finn Sørensen mentioned earlier. I would add that there is only 25%. the municipalities, which always use work clauses, in other words require Danish pay and working conditions in respect of services. There are 31 per cent, by the way. the municipalities which do not control compliance with the rules. So it runs something at best push a lot of places, and there are tax dollars that are being used for social dumping. For me, it is very difficult to understand why the Minister thinks that this is legislation on pay and working conditions, bearing in mind that the provision contained in the ILO Convention says that wages, working hours and other working conditions must not be less favourable than those applicable to work of the same kind in the relevant occupation or industry. It is simply a reference to the level of pay which is in the region and which also applies to the state's supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161312	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161313	I would like to say two things. First of all, I do not think that Mr. Eigil Andersen can be so square that he throws out some percentages and then says that then I get to think that some of the things that are referred to here are something that works so locally in the municipalities that there you have it under control etc. However, I have not said that we have reached the target of clauses in the case of municipalities and regions. I'm just saying that we've come a very long way, and I'm happy with that. Secondly, I must say that it is, of course, difficult for me to have such a legal discussion where things were referred to in conventions. My conclusion is, in fact, very clear and, as was also stated very clearly in the consultation which has now been referred to twice, there is no doubt at all for the lawyers in the Ministry, the government's lawyers, that if you pursue the clue that, according to the legislation, there are working clauses in municipalities and regions, you go across the Danish model. It is the legal assessment that is there, and that is what I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Eigil Andersen, that there I am not so legally founded that I dare to judge one thing or the other. In fact, I choose to follow the instructions and recommendations I receive here from the government's legal experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161426	Eigil Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161428	Unfortunately, I must disappoint the Minister by saying that the consultation which is being discussed and which the Minister considers to be very clear, I consider to be extremely unclear. I certainly do not think that this has been properly clarified on that occasion. But then let us take the attitude. When it is the case that there are a number of municipalities which do not apply these working clauses and require Danish pay and working conditions, and that is thus underpaid when you do not make it a requirement, then the Minister is not prepared to follow up on this, so that in 100 per cent. of the cases in the municipalities in Denmark are paid on Danish terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161509	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161511	I still think that consultation was quite clear, but we can continue to discuss that. I would like to say that I really believe that Mr. Eigil Andersen of his heart's goodness is on his way to becoming the enemy of the Danish model. Because if you're gonna make it to 100%, it's gonna have to be done through legislation, and then I've made it clear what the consequences are. They are that we are about to legislate on pay and working conditions, and I do not want that. So there is, of course, a political difference between Mr. Eigil Andersen and me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161543	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428161550	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing B 85 and B 155 on working clauses in all public contracts. After all, it is becoming an annual habit for us to meet in Parliament and discuss proposals on this subject, and for those who remember my rapporteur's speech from last year I can see that some of the rapporteurs who are sitting here are the same as the previous year, what I am saying will probably not come as the big surprise, because the authors of the motion have found a way of resubmitting their proposals, but the Left has not changed their views on the matter since last time. I hope, of course, that this is not too much a disappointment for the proposers. The left is against social dumping. We just do not believe that the solution is legislation. It sounds sympathetic, at least immediately, when the proposers want to strengthen the Danish collective agreement model and combat social dumping. And it also sounds quite attractive when the proposals aim to ensure that Danish tax dollars are not used for contracts with private companies which undercut the contractual conditions. However, the problem with the proposal arises when one tries to legislate one more time out of the challenges. After all, the Danish model is precisely about the social partners, employers and employees, agreements, working conditions in terms of wages, working hours, etc., in an agreement. Therefore, I do not think it is surprising that it is a step in the wrong direction when the proposers want to regulate the labour market. An interesting question could be whether you want to do as you do in Germany and to table a resolution tomorrow on a fixed minimum wage. I do not think the proposers would like to do so, but we can, of course, discuss it later. It will then be just a matter of time before we have such a stranglehold-like relationship, where politicians in this Parliament are interfering in everything that is going on in the Danish labour market. The Left is not in favour of this. In addition, we believe that the proposals have a number of negative consequences for companies that are burdened with excessive burdens, and chain liability is problematic for small and medium-sized enterprises because they will have difficulty competing with the larger ones so that it will distort competition. In short, chain liability will exclude a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises from offering public services, since they simply do not have the resources to meet the high transaction costs which the proposers' proposals will entail. I am quite sure that the bill for this unequal competitive situation, with additional bureaucratic costs, will end up where it is customary, namely with consumers and therefore also with citizens and taxpayers. The Left simply will not be involved in this. At the same time, it is also worth thinking the idea just a little bit further, and I have done so compared to last year, so what I am saying now is perhaps more surprising. If we start to discriminate against companies through different rules in Denmark, other EU countries can do exactly the same. And this means that skilled Danish companies that are competitive at home will find it difficult to become competitive abroad, as the rules will be different. Of course, the work in Denmark must be carried out within the limits laid down in the law, but it is primarily the responsibility of the various authorities to check that the law is observed. I also believe that only the largest companies actually have the resources, the ability and the knowledge necessary to control their subcontractors down to the last detail. And that will, of course, be the consequence of chain responsibility. I also think it is worth taking into account the uncertainty as to whether the proposal is contrary to EU law. I mentioned that last year too. It is doubtful whether the State can impose on regions and municipalities the application of labour clauses which, according to the ILO Convention 94, are not covered by them. New in the re-submission of the resolution is the fact that the Ministry of Employment issued a circular on working clauses in public contracts in the summer of 2014, but this does not change the fact that the proposal is detrimental to competitiveness and the Danish economy. Instead of looking at the figures, we can see that the 3F report shows that a large part of the country's municipalities can of their own accord find a way of applying work clauses without interfering with it. That is why I find no reason why we in this House should decide to legislate on behalf of everyone. We in the Left have confidence in the social partners. We have confidence in the Danish model and we do not need to make demands on companies about what salary their employees should have, how working hours should be etc. etc. We do not believe that we should legislate out of everything, and that is why the Left is voting against the motions for resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162037	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162042	Thank you. It is not surprising that the Left says no to it. As Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt says, the Left has said earlier that they say no to the use of work clauses. That is quite understood, and it has been made clear several times. What I really would like to ask is that this should help to stem social dumping, and we have seen a sharp increase in the incidence of social dumping. I'm just gonna listen, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, if he cannot confirm that since this government has arrived, we have seen a sharp increase in the number of cases of social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162125	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162127	Now I do not consider myself to be the oracle of Delfi, but it is quite possible that Mr. Bent Bøgsted is right that the number of cases has increased. As an additional remark, one can at least note that the Minister, who was in the Chamber just now, and the government believes that the best way to combat dumping is by means of bilateral agreements with different countries. And, of course, the Liberal Party, together with the Danish People's Party, has also voted in favour of giving a bag of money to combat social dumping in the 2014 Finance Act. And one of the areas of action is bilateral agreements with the various countries. I recently asked the Minister about this: how are these bilateral agreements going? The government has rushed quite slowly in this area. In fact, the first agreement was concluded in mid-April, i.e. one year and three and a half months after the work was started in the Assembly Hall. That is also why I look under my brushed eyebrows down at the proposers and think: if you now make this proposal and you do so, I really think it should be more interesting to ask why it is that the government is hurrying slowly in the areas known to be operating in the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162230	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162231	Well, that's an interesting question. It may be that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt can get the Minister to answer that question. At least I can't answer that. But it is a little remarkable to see that there is an increase and the Left still says: we do not want to legislate in this area, it has to be found out by the social partners. Does this mean that the Left sits back and says: it is quite fine that there will be workers in Denmark who work below the wages we have in Denmark, just as employers benefit from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162311	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162313	I support the Danish model. I believe that employers and employees should make agreements and agreements in relation to how to pay and organise work. That is why I believe that the proposal put forward here is a frontal attack on the Danish model; that is why we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162328	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162331	Thank you. Thank you very much for the great, warm concern of the rapporteur for the Danish model. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is opposed to the rules that apply to the state and state companies that are not in competition in this area. After all, these are rules which say that the state, state authorities, state enterprises which are not in competition must demand pay and working conditions under this ILO Convention that we are talking about. Is the rapporteur opposed to those rules? And does the opponent think that these rules are an interference with the Danish model?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162411	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162413	That's a good question, I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Finn Sørensen. I believe, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that this will be a problem for our private companies, especially the smallest ones. Now it is the case that most government organisations are experts in bureaucracy, capable of moving papers and also capable of controlling the companies with which contracts are entered into. Therefore, it will be much more possible for public institutions to be able to control subcontractors and subcontractors to subcontractors out in the end, and I think that is in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162443	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162445	Okay. It took a little while for something to come up that looked like an answer. Yes, I listened a great deal, and allow me to interpret it in such a way that the rapporteur is not opposed to the rules that we have, that the state, state authorities, state enterprises which are not in competition, should require collective agreements, not necessarily collective agreements, but collective agreements, pay and working conditions. That's right, I've interpreted it that way. I would just like to ask, and the rapporteur does not answer, whether it was an intervention in the Danish model. I would just like an answer to that. But if the answer is that, in the rapporteur's view, it is not an intervention in the Danish model when we make those demands, what is the reason why we should not make the same demands on regions and municipalities and all other public authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162535	Thank you. And that is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162537	I believe that this is an intervention in the Danish model. I believe, in fact, that many public institutions would benefit more from the tax dollars put into various projects if they were not spent on bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162553	Thank you. Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162557	Thank you. Convention of the United Nations Labour Organisation, ILO Convention No. 94 contains nothing about what an hourly wage should be; it does not contain anything about the length of working time; it does not contain anything about increases for work at odd times. It states that wages, working hours and other working conditions must not be less favourable than those applicable to work of the same type in the trade or industry of the person concerned in the region where the work is carried out; there is nothing about the size of the hourly wage, which does not relate to the length of working time. It is a mystery to me how it can be turned to the fact that this general rule, which refers to the general wage and working time in the relevant occupation in the region, concerns legislation on pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162658	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162700	As far as I understand, there are some restrictions on EU law. Well enough, the state has ratified ILO Convention No. 94 but one can only use the Convention in accordance with EU law, and the EU legal rules relate in particular to the right for other than Danish companies to bid also for Danish state tasks, including manifesting themselves in the EU Posting of Workers Directive, the fact that if you demand working conditions to be respected, it must be clear to everyone what it is for some working conditions to be respected, and a requirement or a reference to Danish conditions and Danish agreements to be followed is not clear enough. Danish agreements are also based on the fact that you cannot just point to a pay and general working conditions in crowns and ears. The Danish model, and that is why I bind it together, is based precisely on the fact that the trade union movement, using threats, conflict and working tools, can force employers to enter into a collective agreement with the clauses, it is precisely the government that does so, not the workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162756	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162800	There was essentially no answer to what I asked. The fact is that the collective bargaining that exists in Denmark goes on as usual when using ILO Convention No. 94. But I will then turn the question and put it in a different way, because the rapporteur has used the term 'legislation on pay and working conditions'. Today, as has been said, the state demands that wages and working conditions be paid according to Danish wages and conditions when it offers a job. Is it the case that if, I hope, the Left does not win the elections, the Left, like the Government Party, will remove the existing rule that the state should offer work on Danish pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162843	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162845	Well, it could be enticing to bring breaking news from down here on the site, but I have simply not taken a position on that. What we are discussing now is the motion for a resolution tabled by the authors of the motion for a resolution, and it has been decided in state forums that tasks should be carried out in this area. I do not believe that the same regime should apply to private companies. That's what I've been arguing for on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162907	Thank you. And then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428162919	Thank you. The motion for a resolution B 85 and B 155, which we are discussing today, place the fight against social dumping on the agenda and, of course, as a Socialist, I would like to sign it. Work in Denmark must be on Danish pay and working conditions. You have to have a wage that you can live on and some working conditions that don't make you sick. That is the clear position of the Socialists, and it has always been. We will not tolerate some not playing by the rules, because this undermines our labour market, and we must combat that. So today's debate is good. It also shows that there is a large part of the Folketing which continues to focus on ending social dumping, and we can hopefully build on those intentions. And there's definitely a lot to build on. While the Socialists have been in government, we have taken many important steps in the fight against social dumping. And it was needed because 10 years of a bourgeois government was one long desert migration in relation to the fight against social dumping. It was not on the agenda, it was not a priority. So there's enough to get to grips with, and it takes a lot of bets and a long cool move. Fortunately, we are strong forces, even here today, who are willing to do so. The Minister has already explained very well a number of measures taken by the government in the fight against social dumping, but I would nevertheless like to highlight some of the initiatives that have been under way and which have been launched in the last 31⁄2 years. We have secured more controls and actions against employers who break the rules. And if they do, we have also ensured that it can be felt on the wallet and that it is on the economy that the sanctions can be felt that you are both caught and punished if you cheat. This has not been the case in the past. We have also ensured that there are major state construction projects taking place on proper pay and working conditions. And we have increased the use of work clauses in municipalities and regions. We have also strengthened the trade union movement and the organised labour market by among others. to ensure a higher deduction for professional quotas. This is good because a strong trade union movement is a unique and indispensable weapon in the fight against social dumping. But like I said, it doesn't stop here. The fight against social dumping continues and it is absolutely crucial that we continue to have a labour market based on the Danish model. Both of the motions for resolutions we are debating now aim to make it compulsory to introduce working clauses when all public authorities conclude contracts. As it is today, only state authorities are obliged to enter into agreements on work clauses. For municipalities and regions, however, it is voluntary. And as the Minister has also explained well, there has been a great deal of progress in the last few years, compared to how seriously it is taken in municipalities and regions. In other words, voluntary schemes have actually begun to have an effect. This is really, really pleasing, because if we're going to go along with this long, tough move, it's crucial that there's also ownership in municipalities and regions. It brings some local attention. It creates some local commitment to ensuring good pay and working conditions, and that is what we see the effect of now. I think we can get very far along the road of volunteering. I am glad to see that, unlike four years ago, the number of municipalities taking this seriously has increased. You have actually begun to make the demands when you send things in tenders, and I think that the fact that you have local ownership also means that you not only demand it on paper, but that you also have a political will to control it and sanction it if you catch someone who does not comply with the rules that have been agreed. And that is absolutely crucial, because otherwise it will be just words on a piece of paper. I think that is at least now the most effective way to go. I am glad that municipalities and regions have got their way. I am glad that we are now seeing an increase all around. I am, of course, proud that it is primarily the red municipalities that have been seen taking the lead in this fight, but I am pleased to see that it is also spreading in other areas of the country. I think we should build on this through municipal agreements, through the tools we now have. That is why the Socialists cannot support the two motions for resolutions. And I should like to greet the Radical Left and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163355	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163400	Thank you. Well, we are all happy and proud of every progress, including the small ones that are taking place in the fight against social dumping, and we are happy and proud of the cooperation we have had with the government and also expect to have in this area in the future, also after the next parliamentary elections. But we want to move on, because then we will be very proud when we have achieved the principle that it must not be the case that taxpayers' money can be misused for wage dumping. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with that principle. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur support the demand, want to call it what the LO and the FTF have, namely that it will be compulsory for all public authorities to use these working clauses?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163445	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163447	I am opposed to when our common tax dollars are used to a great extent for social dumping. It is part of the drive that I spend so much time in this area at all, and that we too together, sir. Finn Sørensen and I have spent many hours in this work. At the same time, as far as I am concerned, I can say that I could never vote for a municipal politician or a regional politician who did not take this seriously and who did not work to incorporate it where I live. I hope that people will take the same view when they vote for the Folketing. This is a very important matter, and I am glad that we are now starting not only at national level but also at regional and local level to bring this up and take it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163530	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163533	Thank you. I do not doubt the good intentions of the rapporteur in this area, and they have also been reflected in a number of good agreements we have made together. We must remember that there have also been others with the SF and the Radicals. We appreciate that. I asked a question: does the rapporteur support the proposal from the LO and the FTF, which has recently appeared in the electoral documents of the two main organisations, namely that it will be compulsory for all public authorities to use these working clauses? If the rapporteur were to say yes, I would like to hear something about how the rapporteur imagines that it would be compulsory, so that somehow we should be able to impose these working clauses on regions and municipalities. If so, how is this to happen? But first I would like to know whether the rapporteur supports the proposal from the LO and the FTF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163622	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163623	Thank you. Now it's not the only way to make things happen that we in this room decide. Sometimes it can be enticing just to decide everything. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that it actually means something in practice, that it has not been pulled over the heads of the municipalities, but that through some agreements, through dialogue, we have made the municipalities realise that it is necessary to have a debate raised here, has made clear what the municipalities really have to do and then I believe much more strongly that they are actually concerned that it is being checked and that it is being sanctioned and not just words on a piece of paper. In my view, this means that in practice we have gone much further than if we force it down on the municipalities from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163711	Then the next sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163715	Thank you very much. The Socialist rapporteur very much outlines that there should be voluntary agreements or voluntary use of working clauses for municipalities. Is it to be understood that if we then know that there are a number of municipalities that do not require Danish pay and working conditions, then it is okay with the Social Democracy, because you will not do anything about it? So is it okay with the Social Democratic Party that there are some municipalities that do not demand Danish pay and working conditions, that there are municipalities that do social dumping for taxpayers' money? Is that okay from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163750	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163753	No, it's definitely not okay. I have been after a large number of politicians in the community, who didn't take this seriously enough, and who had one case after another with Romanians who didn't get paid when they cleaned up the local public school, and had to eat lunches that the students had thrown out from the trash cans. It's not okay. However, what we are discussing today is how we can best achieve this, how we can get to where we all want to go together, namely that our common tax dollars are not spent on social dumping. And I don't believe that here, where we are now, where there has actually been a move in the municipal and regional context, where there is ownership, where a lot of politicians have started to do a lot about this, so from here it has to start to legislate in the way it has been put forward here because in my view it won't be the most effective where we are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163846	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163848	My conclusion to this is that I am glad that the Socialist rapporteur says that social dumping for taxpayers' money is not in order, but I think that the Social Democrats accept in practice that there is social dumping for taxpayers' money, because it is precisely not going to take that step and say that then the municipalities must always offer their work on Danish pay and working conditions. Then you accept it in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163918	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428163920	I believe that this should also be looked at a little more broadly, because my aim is not just to have it in all the contracts across the country, for all the public authorities. My aim is that those words not only become words on a piece of paper, but that there are actually people sitting on the other end who feel so much that they are actually being enforced that resources are being used to control those people, for example. builds the local primary school and that, if you find out that the rules are being broken, you will also be sanctioned. And we know very well that I think we all know that it is not enough to make the demand, which must also be followed up, and there must also be the political will to take action if the rules are broken. I believe that local ownership in this context is very important, and that matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164011	Then we have one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164015	Thank you. As I understand the debate with the last two authors, I can conclude that the Social Democratic Party does not support the proposal by the LO and the FTF to introduce work clauses. That's the way it must be understood. Then there's just one question. The rapporteur says that it is clear that we must come after them if they do not meet the requirements, but if the working clauses were introduced, they had a legal requirement, so that they had something to do with those who were offered, and they do not now. Now it is at will who can now come after whom, and who can now make sure that they do not break the rules. The rapporteur stands by and praises the municipalities and regions and says that it is wonderful that so many people use working clauses, but how will the rapporteur get the last to use the working clauses?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164115	Then it's Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164117	Well, sir. Bent Bøgsted may in fact be able to answer better himself, because it is not actually the social democratic municipalities that are lagging behind; it is the blue municipalities that are very much lacking in the end. These are the last of them, sir. Bent Bøgsted talks about it, it's not my municipal politicians. I therefore believe that the Danish People's Party should consider whether there should be any more municipal will. Furthermore, I do not understand the rapporteur's long explanation that if it is just on paper, it will also become reality. We have a host of examples of what has been required, and then we have thought that we have now done what we should do, and then we have closed our eyes to whether or not it actually became a reality. In this context, the words on a piece of paper are not much more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164206	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164208	We are confused at a higher level, because the rapporteur is now saying that it is not the social democratic municipalities that are having problems with, but that it is the blue ones. I actually thought that a rapporteur as a Social Democrat would like to hit the blue municipalities. You don't do that here, because now you go out and protect the blue municipalities. It doesn't quite add up. But fair enough, I will not say anything about that, but it may be that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt would like to thank the rapporteur for protecting the blue municipalities. I really thought it was social democratic policy that one wants one's rules, that one wants them to meet the requirements that exist to avoid social dumping, but I understand from the rapporteur that she says that it is quite all right, we have our municipalities under control, it is the blues, it is wrong, but it does not matter, as long as we have control of our municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164300	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164302	Now perhaps I think that the rapporteur should take a little care to interpret what I am saying. To the contrary, I would like to say that I think the municipalities that are lacking should take a certain body part with them, because this is extremely important, and it provokes me when there are local politicians who stand and pull a little on their shoulders and say that they would rather have it cheaply, because it reflects exactly the views we also see in some blue parties in this Chamber, that is that this is not so important and that it might be more fun just to get a little more for the money in the short term. I just think it is more expensive in the long term, I think it costs Danish jobs, and I do not think we are served by a labour market that does not comply with these rules. So, of course, I am in favour of our common tax dollars not being spent on social dumping, and I am in favour of all the tools that can get us there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164347	Thank you to Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Eigil Andersen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428164403	I would like to start by saying that for SF the fight against social dumping is one of the most important political battles in today's Denmark. It is a great injustice if the jobs of Danish employees are undermined by foreign labour, which is underpaid and where health and safety rules are not complied with, and where there may also be frauds on the part of employers, so that income tax and VAT are not paid. This is totally unacceptable. I would also like to start by saying that a great many good things have happened under the current government. It was true, both while the SF was in government, but it is also true, in the period after we are no longer in government, that a great many good things have happened, and it is quite another way of dealing with social dumping and the fight against social dumping that has been made after Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is no longer prime minister. Hundreds of raids have been carried out jointly between the Labour Inspectorate, SKAT and the police, and many, many illegal acts have been revealed. There are increased fines for infringement of various rules that have been made more effective control, I would say, at least, with social dumping in the truck sector, what is called illegal cabotage and a large number of other things. And when you look back at the parliamentary term that is about to end, one of the things that pleases the SF very much is that there has been this great effort against social dumping. We are very pleased about that. If we then look ahead and turn it against today's proposal, I would say as a start that, alongside the fact that it is important for us that the jobs of Danish employees are not undermined, it is also very important for us that we do not undermine the Danish companies who want to comply with the rules and who want to follow the Danish agreements. Sometimes I think this is an overlooked aspect of this debate. Fortunately, there are many employers in Denmark who want to pay their people in a proper way and give them proper working time rules, namely those in the collective agreements. And that means that it is a form of piracy on the part of the employers, who then want something else, and that has been the case for example. some of the foreign companies operating in Denmark. So it is really also a protection for Danish employers who want to behave properly. Then there is another aspect, and that is that the fight against social dumping is, fortunately, a popular issue. It is for two reasons: firstly, it is very easy to identify with it if your job disappears because someone comes to the country who works for underpayment. And when they work underpaid, we all have to remember that it is employers who are sinning themselves in these contexts, because it is employers who are making the most of the labour force in order for employers to be able to score the money themselves. Secondly, people can also see that local and state welfare in Denmark is simply deteriorating if there is social dumping. It will be so that if payments are underpaid and there is fraud with payments, income tax and VAT, it means less money in the boxes of the state and the municipalities, and that again means that there is less money for our common welfare. SF's demand is therefore that all municipalities and regions should always require Danish pay and working conditions in all areas of work, which is why we support the two motions for resolutions tabled by Enhedslisten and by the Danish People's Party. It has been mentioned here in the debate that there are problems with municipal control in cases where there is also a principle that there must be Danish pay and working conditions, and it is also quite true that there is 31%. the municipalities, which are not currently in control of compliance with their work clauses. It is therefore those who, as the Socialist rapporteur has mentioned, have introduced these working clauses, but they do not check whether they are being complied with, and this is, of course, a major problem with which work should be carried out. In the SF's view, it is a natural thing to involve the trade union movement as a municipality in such a control work, for who knows how to read Danish agreements and decide whether they are being respected? Yeah, it's the trade union movement in particular. Finally, I would like to say that I am thinking with horror of what will happen if the forthcoming parliamentary elections bring a bourgeois majority. It is clear from today's debate on the part of the Left that they are opposed to demanding Danish pay and working conditions, and no clear answer was given to keeping the rule within the state system. So this means that there is a risk that the Left will conclude that even when the state offers a job, Danish pay and working conditions should no longer be required in future. Another party within the black political majority, which could become a reality, is the Liberal Alliance. With the Liberal Alliance, we know that it is said that hourly wages of DKK 30. This has nothing to do with underpayment, says the Liberal Alliance, which is an expression of healthy competition. It is, after all, liberalism in its consequence that is at issue. So I have to say that the Danish employees are faced with a really nasty reality if there is to be a bourgeois majority in the forthcoming elections. I sincerely hope that the Danish employees will take into account the fact that some very bad things may happen in the fight against social dumping if a bourgeois majority and a bourgeois prime minister suddenly appear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165026	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165056	Thank you very much. With these motions for resolutions, the authors of the motion for a resolution want to dismantle the Danish model. The Danish model is characterised by the fact that agreements apply only to employers who have signed an agreement or who are members of an employers' association. So these proposals represent both blowing and having flour in your mouth. We want agreements to remain private and to be concluded by the social partners. We agree with that part, but we also want them to apply to everyone. We cannot agree with that. The strength of the Danish model is precisely that it is the social partners who conclude the agreements. We think that should be guarded. If it is the case that one wants to legislate to maintain certain pay and working conditions, then the law must state what the salary should be. That's why it's a break with the Danish model when you want to introduce this type of clause. We cannot support that in any way whatsoever. I would like to say to the SF rapporteur that it is sometimes a little incredible what to listen to. We've never said anything about that 30 kroner. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. The rapporteur cannot find a single quote on this. What we have said is that we support the model we have in Denmark, where the starting point is that wages and working conditions are agreed between the social partners. This also means that today it is the case that there should be an employer or worker who could agree on DKK 30. I mean, it's not gonna be illegal. I don't think that's gonna happen in Denmark. I am not aware that this is happening, nor do I believe that the rapporteur will be able to find many examples of this happening. That is for some very different reasons. We are also of the opinion that this is being implemented, and then the role of the trade union movement in Denmark is being undermined, because agreements must be abolished into law, and they will have to, it is no longer the trade unions who are going to see to it that the agreements concluded by the social partners are respected. Then you could send someone out from the Factory Inspectorate who could take care of it. That is why we do not believe that the consequences of implementing such legislation have been fully thought out, because it will mean that we will have a fundamentally different labour market from what we have today. This will mean that we politicians will have to decide to a much greater extent than today what the agreements should contain. We do not want politicians to do that on the part of the Liberal Alliance. We believe that this is a good thing for the social partners, who today have tools that they can use if they want a company covered by collective agreements and they do so to a large extent today. You might think about that what you want, but it sort of works well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165432	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are two brief comments, first Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165437	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's contribution. Either the rapporteur has not bothered to read this proposal, read the ILO Convention, read the circular issued by the Ministry on how to recommend the use of work clauses, or the rapporteur is deliberately trying to confuse what this proposal is about. So I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that nowhere, either in the ILO Convention or in the Ministry's circular on the use of work clauses or in the proposal from Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, is there anything at all about the need to legislate on the level of wages. Would the rapporteur not confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165524	That is correct: there is no mention of that. But that would be the consequence. In other words, if it is the case that companies have to live up to the agreements if it is to be in the law, and it would be necessary to impose chain liability on companies or on these work clauses which contain chain liability, then they need to know what they have to deal with. That is why it is necessary to stand in the law as to what kind of pay you have to pay, for example. You can't get around that. There is not today because you do not have this type of legislation, but that will be the consequence. The consequence will be the introduction of a statutory minimum wage, and I am not sure that you are interested in it either by the trade union movement. I think it is working quite well, as it is doing today, that it is the trade union movement and employers who jointly agree on what kind of pay and working conditions should be in the individual companies, because they know much more about this than we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165627	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165630	Thank you. I do not know where the rapporteur gets it from that one then has to legislate on the level of pay. The rapporteur is free to elaborate on this. But I can perhaps get an answer by asking a new question: does the rapporteur, the government, the Enhedslisten and the SF, believe that what we have done is illegal, in that we are imposing on all state authorities and state companies that are not in competition, to demand pay and working conditions under this convention and that we resolve it by referring to the most representative agreements? Is this an illegal model we found there?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165710	No, it is not an illegal model, but it is an inappropriate model and we do not agree with it. But it's not illegal. But I think, and it is quite obvious, that the Enhedslisten also interprets Article 94 of the ILO Convention quite broadly, even more broadly, than there is reason for us to do, in relation to what we have adopted in Denmark, where this applies only to the state. It will also be extended to municipalities and regions. There is no basis for that. Denmark has not agreed to this, so this proposal is the one that cheats on the weight.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165755	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen from SF for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165759	Thank you very much. Well, actually, I'm very fond of sir. Joachim B. Olsen's confirmation that hourly wages of DKK 30 is perfectly in line with the Liberal Alliance's view, because that is what I said. This is based on the fact that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has said that the wage agreed between adult people, namely an employee and an employer, should not be interfered with. That is how I understood what was said from the platform, i.e. that it was also true if it was 30 kr. It's an hour. It is, as the rapporteur has said, healthy competition that this is the case. There is just a huge, deep dividing line between the Liberal Alliance and the SF when we talk about public service offering some work. There we will ensure that none of the private companies pay their employees 30 DKK. It's an hour. We want to ensure that they receive what is equivalent to a collective wage. And so, as I said, there is an abyss of difference between the Liberal Alliance and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428165903	I believe that what I said, and that is what I stand by, is that pay and working conditions are something I believe should be negotiated between the social partners. It is quite true that I have said that my starting point is that if adult people, adults, authoritative people, enter into an agreement on pay and working conditions you get x number of crowns to do a job, and we agree on the price I do not see that it is up to others to interfere in that agreement. This is also the way the Danish model works today. Then there are all kinds of other conditions that mean that we don't see wages at $30. per hour in Denmark. It has something to do with us being very productive. That is what, like, provides the foundation for high real wages. We've invested. Massive investment has been made over decades in companies, which means that new technology, new machines, new computers, etc. are available to increase the workforce of employees. After all, there is a competition between employers to attract labour. It is the competition between employers that also pushes up wages over time. They have to pay what they need to get the manpower they need. It is all such conditions that make us have high wages in Denmark. It is not what you want to introduce chain liability or work clauses or anything else that makes us have high wages in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170029	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170031	Well, we just have to say that what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen emphasizes in relation to the Danish labour market model, the right to underpayment is the right to underpayment. That's what it's all about. That right also wants the Liberal Alliance to maintain when it is the public who is providing a job. The Liberal Alliance is opposed to the demand by the public for Danish pay and working conditions with taxpayers' money. I hope, then, that the electorate will note that this is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170105	No, what we think is important is, moreover, just as the Government's Productivity Commission also recommended, namely that these work clauses are not used precisely because they increase the process when they have to solve a task in the public sector, is that they get the best product at the best price. They don't have to pay more to build anything than necessary. Of course, they must have built something of good quality, something that can keep it up is something that will get the price up but they shouldn't have to pay more for it than most necessary. Because if they do, there's less money to spend on other things. Then there is less money to spend on cancer treatment, there is less money to spend in the education sector, and we therefore think that is important. We therefore believe that the important thing is that, as a public authority, taxpayers' money is spent with the utmost care. And it is not as wise as possible to give more for a product than is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170200	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170203	Thank you. I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen about this, that you shouldn't interfere and that you should protect the Danish model. It is also fair enough that we also think so in the Danish People's Party. But now that LO and FTF go out and recommend the introduction of work clauses, does this mean that the LO and FTF look big on the Danish model and that they really don't care if the Danish model survives? Because it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen says that it is on its way that you are ready to destroy the Danish model if it is introduced. Does this mean that the LO and the FTF are completely wrong and misunderstood the situation when they go out and recommend the introduction of working clauses?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170255	So, the Danish People's Party's concern for the Danish model may, in our view, lie in a rather small place. I believe that it was the Danish People's Party which, a few years ago, helped to table resolutions to break into conflict law. We weren't part of that, because it was an intervention • a violent intervention • in the Danish model. And yes, it will be an intervention in the Danish model, as the Danish model is understood today, if it is the case that this type of work clause and chain liability is introduced, which means that the LO's agreements must be extended to all employees. That they should also apply to the Christians, and I do not know about Mr. Bent Bøgsted thinks it's a good idea. At least we don't think it's a good idea. This will mean that private schools, for example. Denmark's Radio and all sorts, which are somehow supported by the public, must have work clauses, and this is a break with the Danish model. We cannot avoid that, we cannot explain it away in any way whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170359	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170402	Well, what the rapporteur is saying here is very good, but that means that what the rapporteur says is that in the state sector, where rules have been adopted that they should use work clauses, no one can be allowed to work if they do not work under a LO agreement. Is that what the rapporteur is saying? As I have seen today, there are some who work in the state field who have an agreement with the Christians, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen mentions here. Does this mean that they have been wrongly allowed to work there, even if they are not allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170441	I shall not be able to say that, but if that is the case and that is what I understand from the motion for a resolution; then I may have misunderstood that it is the general wage and contract conditions that are to apply, it will in practice mean that these are the agreements that the large organizations, for example. LO and DA are included. And then you have to legislate on it. And I do not know whether the Danish People's Party is prepared to legislate on what should stand, what should be paid, i.e. introduce a statutory minimum wage. It will mean that de facto. I do not know how to come to the conclusion that it would be claimed that this is not an attack on the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170520	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170533	Thank you, President. These two proposals we are discussing today are, after all, almost identical to those we have discussed before. And let me just start by saying that from the Conservative People's Party we have not changed our position. On the whole, I hope that no one in this House is opposed to the fight against social dumping. But it is as if the proposers are going to forget about it and the debate also bears witness to the fact that in Denmark we are actually world famous for the Danish model. It is a model that ensures that it is primarily the social partners who have an influence on labour market conditions and a model that works very well and that we can be very proud of. But the prerequisite for the Danish model and for the Danish model to work is that we politicians dare to leave influence and responsibility to the social partners. This does not mean that we do not legislate, because we do, but it means that we are careful to legislate. And we have regulated a number of rules in the area of health and safety, for example, and we have done so in consultation with the parties. Here we have jointly assessed the need for legislation to ensure the health and safety of workers. But when it comes to pay and working conditions, we have a great tradition that these are arranged between trade unions on the one hand and employers on the other. At the same time, it is the duty of the parties to ensure that these conditions are respected. That is how we want it to be in the future both because it is the least bureaucratic way and because we think it is the most effective way to regulate pay and working conditions in Denmark. This is also the most effective way of preventing social dumping in the long term. If we make a lot of complicated rules, we are not just undermining the Danish model; no, we are also risking that it is the big companies and only those who can understand the rules and who can handle the extra bureaucracy that will keep up with the extra costs. So we will have a situation where small businesses cannot compete with large companies when public tasks are being offered, and at the same time we risk putting Danish companies at a disadvantage compared to their foreign competitors. And both can ultimately cost Danish jobs. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170748	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170754	I just want to hear whether the rapporteur will recognise that it is contradictory on the one hand to stand and say that it is not really desirable for taxpayers' money to be spent on social dumping and so on, or that it is taking place at all, and on the other hand to say that it must be possible to compete completely freely on wages. That's what we're seeing here. That is why we are putting forward the proposal. This is because we have some rules in the European Union and in this country that allow foreign companies to come here or for Danish companies to import incredibly cheap labour to push prices. So you can't mean one thing or the other. Would the rapporteur just acknowledge that what the rapporteur says is contradictory?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428170837	It took a little while for Mr. Simpson to come back. Finn Sørensen got in, and I actually stayed standing because I was hoping and thought that there might be some questions, and fortunately so did there. After all, we have had a great many debates in this Chamber, even though I am no longer an employment rapporteur, but I have to admit that we do not share this view. After all, I find it shameful when Enhedslisten makes such a proposal here, which will mean that smaller companies will be out of business because they will not be able to deal with the regulatory bureaucracy that goes with it and which will mean that chain liability will make smaller companies bankrupt because they have suppliers who may not pay their VAT, and it is ultimately the little carpenter master who will be responsible for one of the suppliers. We simply do not think this is right, and it has been a good custom for 100 years now that it is the social partners who are making the agreements. There is a reason why we do not have a minimum wage in Denmark. In a few moments, both of you, sir. Finn Sørensen and myself in the election campaign, and there's a minimum wage just not a tool you can use to outbid each other with. I can imagine that this might be something that might come into play from Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten's page. Then you would just come up with a small proposal to raise the minimum wage, and then you could attract some more voters. I am very pleased that we have neither chain responsibilities nor working clauses in this way, and hence not a minimum wage, which would mean that it could be used politically in an election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428171003	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428171005	I would just like the rapporteur to answer my question, namely whether it is not contradictory to speak against social dumping on the one hand, and say that you do not want such a thing, but that on the other hand you say no when there are proposals that can limit it and that can ensure that small Danish craft companies are given a chance so that they are not undercut by Eastern European companies, because that is what is happening. That's what we're gonna make sure of with this, but you don't want to. Then there must be free competition on wages, even in the sense that wage dumping, which we also see in public contracts, must be allowed to take place. That is contradictory, and that is just what I wanted the rapporteur to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428171043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428171044	Sometimes I think it must be incredibly nice to live in the world of Enhedslisten, because if there is a political problem and you are not exactly in favour of the solution proposed by Enhedslisten, then it is both contradictory, contradictory and all sorts of other things, and I have to reject that entirely. As a matter of fact, I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen should be pleased that the Conservative People's Party is concerned about social dumping and wants to combat social dumping, and then recognise that there is the political difference and that we just do not agree with the solutions outlined by the Enhedslisten. That's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428171118	There are no further brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr B 85. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428171142	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and thank you for a good debate, in which I think progress is being made by two leaders. Firstly, that we are now three parties that think it is a good idea to do what Enhedslisten proposes and Dansk Folkeparti has their own; it is an obvious opportunity, which I will return to at the end. Secondly, that we have had a great deal of clarity, I think, about the arguments for and against, and that is always good. This is just another step on the road that will eventually end with the Folketing having to ensure that taxpayers' money cannot be misused to support social dumping, and that is, of course, at the heart of this matter. Period, that's all there is to it, so why should it be so hard? Do we have a problem here? Of course, you have to ask yourself that question. Yes, we do. The trade union says it's the construction union that 40%. of the cases involving wage dumping concern public contracts. I do not think we need to pull out more evidence in a relatively limited amount of speaking time. Otherwise you can go to 3F's website or on the page called underpaid.dk. That's where you're gonna see what's going on. That is why it should be a narrow matter to agree that the requirements that apply to the State and to a number of state enterprises should also apply to all other public authorities and companies, but there is then a majority against that in this case. Let us look at the reasons used. The first argument: it is best to do so by voluntary means, we are told. I recognise that the use of work clauses by municipalities has progressed. This is probably due not least to the debates which a number of trade unions and some parties in the Folketing have held, but, despite many years of debates, there are still plenty of municipalities, about half of them, hanging on the brakes. This is clear from the KL's own report, which it then took almost three quarters of years to get rid of them. Only 35%. I hope that we will agree that this should apply not only to building tasks but also to all services. Most municipalities, that is about a quarter, do not exercise control over compliance with the contract. Only about half use the chain responsibility needed to enforce it. Only 30%. ensure that they can apply financial penalties to contractors and suppliers if they do not comply with the contract and only slightly more than 60%. uses the Department's excellent circular on this question. So it should prove that there is a need for us to proceed more effectively so that we reach the goal of a principle that everyone says they agree on. The second argument is that it is an intervention in municipal self-government. Oh, my God, you have to laugh or you have to cry. That argument comes from a government and from a majority of the people who exercise a true budgetary tyranny towards the municipalities with financial sanctions if they do not comply with the budgets and accounts that they must. That argument comes from a government and from a majority of the people who, through law, force the municipalities into compulsory privatisation, the so-called free elections. This argument comes from a government which regulates the activities of the municipalities in the field of employment in detail in the absurdity of an overall legislative and circular collection of approx. 30,000 pages on how the municipalities should behave in employment policy. So shall we laugh or weep over the argument of interference in municipal self-government? We can, of course, mention hundreds of other examples of legislation in which the Folketing either split or unanimously regulates the details of regions and local authorities' behaviour, so why not here when it comes to the use of tax dollars to ensure good pay and working conditions. The third argument: it is an intervention in the Danish model. The argument is that if we use legislation to impose these working clauses on municipalities and regions, then we must also legislate on the level of wages. It is an intervention in the Danish model, and we will not, and that is why we do not want to be involved in it. It's a glorious circle that's been made there. But I'm sorry, it doesn't add up. Why is it an intervention in the Danish model if we are legally requiring regions and municipalities to use work clauses, but it is not an intervention in the Danish model when we are requiring the state and state companies to do so? There is nothing in the ILO Convention or in the Danish Order about it that demands should be made for very specific pay and working conditions. The Ministry's circular recommends that reference be made to the most representative agreements, and we have to assume that when the parties have entered into an agreement it is because they have the necessary clarity in terms of how to pay them. It is a system on which we agree, in the state field and for state enterprises. So there is no reason at all for this to be a trickle out of the hat. If we now impose on the regions and municipalities that they have to apply work clauses, then suddenly we have to go all the way down to crowns and ears indicating what the salary should be. It is also very interesting that the trade union movement does not therefore have a view that it would be contrary to the Danish model if we implemented the Enhedslisten's proposal here today. On the contrary, the LO and the FTF want it to be compulsory for all public authorities to apply work clauses under this convention we are talking about. The two organisations are not concerned with whether this should be done through legislation or through some sort of agreement between the authorities, trade union movement and government, or how it should now be combined, but they are of the opinion that it should be compulsory, and they are certainly not of the opinion that it should be an interference with the Danish model if it is implemented in the way that the Enhedslisten is proposing here. Behind it all, of course, is the argument about EU law: it is EU law that dictates that if we make any legislation, then we also have to legislate on the level of wages. However, that argument has been put down by the Minister himself through the answer I have received to my question 183, because here the Minister confirms that there are no EU judgments that say that if we impose on regions and municipalities the application of the provisions of the ILO Convention, then we must also legislate on the level of wages and that the amount of wages must then be in line with this Posting Directive, which dictates that we should not demand more than minimum wage and overtime payments for foreign service providers. There are no convictions that say so. This is something you invent because it is a convenient excuse for not supporting this proposal. I am not surprised that the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party are opposed. At the end of the day, they put the right of employers to flunk wages higher than that of the public sector to be a good role model in terms of pay and working conditions. I must reject the claim that this proposal would affect small businesses. That's not true. Small Danish craft companies will have a fair opportunity to compete if we introduce these rules and also what we are going to talk about shortly, namely legislation on chain liability. This will prevent foreign companies from coming here and dumping their wages, because then they will have to comply with the contractual level we have in Denmark, just as it will prevent them from pardoning me the word 'fake companies', Danish companies which very much want to import cheap Eastern European labour in order to be able to dump their wages. That is, of course, what we ensure courage by implementing such a proposal as this. But it is no wonder that the bourgeois people are going against it with the Left in the lead, with the Danish People's Party as an exception, as those parties, despite all possible incantations that they will not interfere with the Danish model, are very much in favour of it and we have confirmed this here today that there must be competition on the salary, as is actually the case, just as the Left has also proposed an intervention in the conflict law, so that employers can shop around freely and take the cheapest agreement without the trade union movement being able to do anything about it. Then one might wonder a little bit why the Radicals are on that team. After all, they have been involved in making good agreements on social dumping, and they have also helped to impose these working clauses on the State and state companies. So why don't you go all the way? But it is shameful that the Socialists do not want to be involved. They should then, if anyone, take the lead with the rest of us to get this nail in, because it will be one of the most effective tools in the fight against social dumping that we can use at all. And it is all the more disgraceful that the Socialists will not support the proposal from the LO and the FTF that it should be compulsory for regions and municipalities to use working clauses. The same Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen actually thought at an earlier stage that it should be compulsory. So, dear Social Democrats, pull yourselves together. After all, we are in a unique situation where, if the Socialists want to participate, there is a majority in favour of implementing what we are proposing here. So take your chance. I am quite sure that if they did so, that is to say, the Socialists, it would significantly improve our ability to maintain the majority we now have in the forthcoming parliamentary elections, because it would be a clear signal to the many professional activists who carried this government into the government offices in the last parliamentary elections, that one lives up to one's promises to combat social dumping effectively. Here is the opportunity to use a sharp tool, so let's use it. I really think you'd be happy about that yourself, Social Democrats. As far as the Danish People's Party's proposal is concerned, of course we also support it. We just believe that our proposal shows how this can be done. However, it would also be good to oblige the government to make the circular they have created for state and state companies binding on regions and municipalities. And then we could negotiate how we do it. So, of course, we can support that too. So thank you for the floor and thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172205	Thank you. There are two brief comments, first from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172212	If, for example, a primary school... buys a new toilet, the proposers believe that there should then be chain liability imposed on the entire process. In order to make sense of madness, there must surely also be chain responsibility if the same public school buys computers for a similar amount of money. I believe that the competition against which electronics companies in Denmark are up against, the wage competition they are up against, is far, far harder than that against which the construction industry is up against. So if there is to be any sense in this madness, then we must also demand chain responsibility when public authorities, for example, are called upon to do so. Buying electronics, huh?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172304	In other words, we have not reached the proposal for chain liability. We have come to a proposal to require all public authorities to impose proper pay and working conditions when buying services of all kinds. That is what the proposal is about. So I think we should stick to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172326	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172329	That is why the rapporteur can answer the question. I guess that's a relevant question. In other words, this resolution also contains chain liability, so if it is the case that there must be chain liability on the whole process, if you are to have a toilet installed, why should there not be one if you buy a computer for a corresponding amount? It is about protecting certain industries from competition. Why is it only certain industries and not all sectors that are to be protected against wage competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172408	Again: I do not think that the rapporteur has read the proposal because it is clear that it is any kind of service, that is to say the provision of a computer; it is the provision which is a service. So, of course, it applies to all services. You're welcome to read what it says.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172434	Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172438	I just noticed a single sentence, like sir. Finn Sørensen said, and that was that it was the Enhedslisten that brought the government into the government offices. So I'm thinking, if this is heart blood, if this is really something that's really, really important, why is it that you don't pull the blanket off under the government? Why, then, is it that one goes on apparently backing up a government with which one disagrees so much and with which one obviously cannot find common ground? Some may wonder.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172505-2	I do not think the rapporteur really listened. I didn't say the Enhedslisten carried the government into the offices. We didn't. We are a parliamentary basis for it, and we have no problem with it. I said that there were a large number of professional activists who carried the government into government offices. Indeed, it was all the many activists who were involved in the fact that we were now going to have a new government. Those are the ones I was referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172536	Mrs. Mai Mercado? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the second rapporteur, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr B 155. Bent Bøgsted from Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428172553	Thank you, President-in-Office and congratulations on the new job. It's always nice when something changes. But back to motion for a resolution No. B 155: It's all about working clauses. And it is a little remarkable that we have had a consultation in which the Minister explained why it should apply only to state and not regional and municipal areas, although the Convention states this: this Convention applies to contracts which fulfil the following conditions: at least one of the parties to the contract is a public authority. In this context, we see regions and municipalities as public authorities, at least in the Danish People's Party. The Minister does not do so in full, and yet in the circular the Minister recommends that municipalities and regions apply work clauses in works contracts according to the guidelines set out in this circular regardless of the size of the contract and in other contracts where appropriate. That is why it was reasonable to say: why not take the step to get it all in full, so that it was the case for regions and municipalities? The Minister doesn't intend to do that. We have heard a lot about the fact that it is an interference in the Danish model and that it is an interference in the self-determination of the parties, but it is okay if it is in the territory of the state that you may be allowed to do so, but in the territory of the regions and municipalities you cannot do so, because then it will be at the expense of the self-determination of the municipalities. And then it's like sir. Finn Sørensen said that there are a great many other areas where legislation is being made that go beyond the self-determination of the municipalities in this regard. In the Danish People's Party, we have changed our attitude to this over time, as developments have been, where we have been able to see that there is more and more social dumping in the country, and that is why it was a necessary step to say: should we not look at how we get this spread to all public areas, at least in the first place? This is something more difficult in the private labour market. However, the public is able to feel, for there is the Convention, which Denmark ratified in 1955. So it was simple. But it is not, after all, because there are a lot of explanations as to why it cannot be done in the regional and municipal areas. We have heard that several times today, and we have heard that it is not possible to do so. In the Danish People's Party we think it should be the case that we do not get anything, what to say, abuse of cheap labour, social dumping. That's not fair. For us it is a little strange that when the LO and the FTF recommend that work clauses should be made, we hear that what they have proposed is not really good. I have always thought, and I may be the one who is wrong, that the LO knew at least what could be an intervention in the Danish model. I have always taken that for granted, and I assume they know that too, because otherwise they would not have recommended that this should be introduced. But it may well be that some misunderstandings have occurred, and then you can become wiser, and then they have to explain why it is not an intervention in the Danish model when it is claimed during the debate that it is an intervention to introduce work clauses. However, as development has been, where we have been able to see that there is a large influx of cheap labour, particularly from Eastern Europe, and when it can help to limit the abuse of labour, it is necessary for us to see how we can curb it. And there are working clauses, as laid down in the Convention, an option. The circular agreed by the Minister, which recommended that they should be used in works contracts, was certainly an opportunity to be widely used. I don't want it to be like that. The government does not want this, it wants a large majority in the Folketing not to do so, but it calls for it to be done by voluntary means. The question then is whether it will ever happen that you can get everyone along the way of volunteering. It's not given. However, I would like to thank you for the debate. We look forward to the handling of these motions for resolutions. We can of course sense that there is no majority for either the Danish People's Party or the Enhedslisten's proposal, but thanks to the SF and also the Enhedslisten for the support, which is mutual. We may not make much progress on this at this stage, at least, but we never know that changes can sometimes take place in relation to what is happening. If all of a sudden there is an even greater abuse and there is even more social dumping, it might well be that the time was ripe for it anyway. However, right now, it seems to be too early to believe that it can be implemented. There is certainly no prospect of it being this year, perhaps not next year either. We don't know, but we're still working on it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173156	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments, so Mr. Bent Bøgsted is finished. That also means that no more people have asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173222	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173238	There may be some repetitions in relation to the last debate, but that is fair enough. Then we can have it repeated. The Enhedslisten, with this motion for a resolution, once again focuses on how to ensure orderly conditions in the Danish labour market when foreign companies and employees get jobs in Denmark. This is a good debate. The government has said many times that when it comes to foreign companies and their employees, they are welcome in Denmark. But Danish rules must be respected and the Danish labour market model must be respected. Fortunately, we are in the situation where the vast majority of companies comply with the rules that are in Denmark, and they must then be allowed to do their job. However, there are also companies that do not comply with the rules of the game, and these are the companies that we must take action against. That is why we have, together with the SF and Enhedslisten, set up a number of areas of social dumping historically. It is going to be a bit of a review, but I do not think it can be said enough times that all the efforts we are making with the joint authority in relation to the Labour Inspectorate, SKAT and the police have proved to be effective, and that is good. There is the RUT register, and a strengthened effort towards specific industries. All this has proved to be going in the right direction, and that is a good thing. Then I am also a little pleased that I have managed to reach agreements with Poland, Lithuania and Latvia on better regulatory cooperation in recent weeks and months precisely to counteract social dumping, and I have a legitimate hope that there will also be an agreement along the way with Slovakia. These are precisely the countries from which we have the most representatives, so it is also a crucial thing When it comes to chain liability, we agree with Enhedslisten in securing orderly conditions on the Danish labour market. We agree that this is an important objective, but we do not agree that chain liability is the best way to ensure fair and proper conditions. The government cannot support the motion for a resolution. In general, chain liability, according to the government's assessment, will lead to increased uncertainty, and this will also lead to increased administrative burdens for companies that are not in line with their efforts. If chain liability is to be used, it must be done again through voluntary action, such as the one we are discussing here. is the case with municipalities which have chosen to use chain liability in the enforcement of work clauses. Chain liability in relation to wage and contract relationships is not based on and does not accord with the Danish model. As you know, there is no tradition of doing this in relation to pay. This is a view which, fortunately, the government is not alone in. The social partners themselves want them to be responsible for regulating pay and employment conditions in Denmark, and this is the model that the government supports. That is the model that has served us all well, and therefore the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173549	Thank you, Minister. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173553	Thank you. I recognise that we easily come out in repetitions, and that is the disadvantage of dealing with two overlapping proposals, at the same time there is not quite the same energy when you come to the second round. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that in the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten there is no mention whatsoever of the need to legislate on pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173623	I guess there's some Duracell over all of us, so I guess we're gonna be okay. Let me put it this way: one thing is what it says, another is what the consequences will be, and that is what I referred to both in the previous debate and in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173641	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173643	I am pleased to say that the Minister agrees that our proposal does not provide for Parliament to legislate on the level of wages or working hours or anything else, because our proposal clearly states that what can be made chain liability is, of course, what has been agreed and can be supported by some labour law decisions. That is what the proposal is about. I'm glad we can just clarify that. And then I still miss an explanation, but at some point we will probably get the long, thorough explanation why it should be so that when you implement this, you will also have to legislate on the level of pay. We have still not received that explanation, which is an airy assessment of EU law or something mysterious, but we do have that for good, but we will probably not get it this afternoon.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173734	You cannot know that, but it is certainly the Minister who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173737	I do not agree that it has not been given. I think I've said it so many times that sometimes I can take myself dreaming about it at night. But it may have something to do with the way the receiver has taken it down. I think I have said this very carefully in consultation and on other occasions. It is true that you can have different assessments of it, but of course I do not want to judge that the Ministry and the government lawyers working with this are in any way airy. In fact, I listen with interest to what they say and follow their legal advice as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173812	Duracell or not, there are no more brief comments to the Minister. We move on to the first rapporteur. This is from the Left, Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428173827	Thank you. As our rapporteur in this area is unable to be present in the Chamber at the moment, I have promised to read out the speech from the Left. The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution on the introduction of chain liability can be called an old travert. At least we've seen it many times before, but in different versions. This time the resolution goes further than we have seen in the past. The main contractors and main suppliers are responsible for the breach by subcontractors and subcontractors of obligations vis-à-vis the authorities, wage-earners and the decision of the trade and civil-law system on these matters. The left is, of course, against social dumping. It is important that people are recruited in good conditions and given a fair and proper payment for the work they are doing. There is no doubt about that, but today we also have bodies which can deal with the problems when an agreement is not followed or there are bad working conditions. The example of the Metro Company, which is highlighted in the motion for a resolution, shows precisely that our system is working. The case was solved and the 22 million. kr. has been paid through the applicable professional law system. In addition, the Left is also convinced that the solution to the problem of social dumping is not legislation. The Left wishes to maintain and respect the Danish model in which the social partners agree on pay and working conditions. If we choose to legislate for demands for chain liability, we risk tampering with the Danish model, and we are not interested in that at the Left. At the same time, the motion for a resolution means that small businesses in particular will have an enormous responsibility to look at their suppliers. This is an unreasonable burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. The Left does not want to impose new and unnecessary burdens on Danish industry, and that is why we should think carefully before affecting the legislation of companies in an area where we traditionally do not interfere on the part of legislators. The Left cannot therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to introduce chain liability, as we believe that we have a system which can address the problems that arise. Furthermore, the Left does not want to change the Danish model. Social dumping must be combated and we must keep in mind that all people work in good conditions in Denmark, but legislation is not the answer. I'm sorry, President, I think it got a little long.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174058	Not at all. We are clearly below the permitted speaking time, as far as I can judge, and as far as time is concerned. But sometimes it can feel like longer when you read other words than when you read your own blossoming words. But Mr. Finn Sørensen would like it to take a little longer, because he has asked for the floor "No, sir." Finn Sørensen has resigned, and I can thank the rapporteur on the Left. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174126	Thank you. Like the two resolutions we have just considered, B 110 is essentially about combating social dumping and, as I have already explained in my previous speech, the position of the Socialists is very clear: working in Denmark must be done on Danish wages and working conditions. Again, there is reason to sign the Enhedslisten to take up the fight against this injustice. In this area, not much separates us, and it has to be said that Enhedslisten and the government together with the SF have achieved a great deal of good and great results in recent years compared to that particular battle. As far as the specific resolution is concerned, it is, of course, a general law to introduce chain liability broadly in Denmark. When we say broadly, it is in relation to the working environment, tax and salary, and in relation to the professional and civil system. Already today there are municipalities that have voluntarily chosen to use chain responsibility in enforcing their work clauses, which were at the heart of the recent debate. The position of the Socialists is that it is very good if you want to use chain responsibility locally. In addition, we have also used chain liability as a state employer when sending out things with work clauses attached. That's a really nice way to do it. However, the motion for a resolution B 110 which we are debating here goes very, very far, covers very, very wide and covers more things than what is just a piece of legislation. It will therefore be very far-reaching, and we cannot therefore support the proposal on the part of the Social Democrats. The same applies to the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174319	This time, sir. Finn Sørensen a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174323	Thank you. I just want to say that what divides us is that every time we get to some really sharp tools like this. This is what can really ensure that we meet a common objective, so that the Socialists support it. That's too bad. Then I just need to correct a misunderstanding. The specific proposal we have here does not involve chain responsibility for compliance with health and safety regulations. This could also be done, and we have already mentioned this in a more far-reaching proposal that we have had in the past. We have chosen in this proposal to build on a proposal from the BAT cartel, which is why we have not included it. We recognise that, if we are to make chain responsibility for health and safety regulations, it is far more complicated than if we are to talk about pay and working conditions and the payment of tax and VAT and social contributions. So it was just to correct that misunderstanding. Otherwise it will be a repetition of the previous debate. I should just like to ask the rapporteur one thing: does the rapporteur recognise that we have no problems with EU rules in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174426	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174428	Whether there should be individual parts of the many, many different parts on which the rapporteur and the Enhedslisten would like to introduce chain liability, which conflict with something in EU law, I should not be able to put my head on the block and answer here and now. However, there are a large number of these things that could easily be done without EU law coming into play, but which I think is politically very far-reaching. I regret to the rapporteur that I included the working environment. It could go even further, and it is not. In this case, however, we cannot be there either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174509	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174511	So let me ask more specifically about the issue of pay and working conditions. It is, of course, one part of the chain responsibility we are talking about here, which the contractor or contractor can be entrusted with, that is to say, a responsibility all the way down the chain. Does the rapporteur think that there are any problems with EU law with that part of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174529	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174530	What may be the problem, I think, is in relation to the way we have the labour market model in Denmark. And precisely this part, there is actually quite a lot of concern about our professional friends, at least if you are out there that it means that there is legislation on collective bargaining. It is much easier with regard to the things that we already decide in here, that is to say those things that are legislative, but with regard to the things that are contractual today, you have to tread much more cautiously.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174605	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen and pass on the floor to the next rapporteur. And this is sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174619	Thank you for that, President. This proposal, as I see it, is a partial re-submission of an earlier proposal to which the Danish People's Party at the time said no. This is where the ordering responsibilities were taken. This is more acceptable, it is more edible for the Danish People's Party, and we are positive about the proposal. We do, however, have a number of things to clarify in connection with the work of the committee, and I think we should also look at what concerns the Social Democratic Party raises and whether they can be drawn a little closer towards it. I also believe that Mr. Finn Sørensen is prepared to see if you can get quite clever about whether Social Democracy is to rock anywhere about this. But the Danish People's Party is positive about it. We need to clarify this with main contractors and main suppliers in relation to subcontractors a little more: what is the position there? How far do you go down the line? Do you have a responsibility all the way down, or how and how? I do not think I can see that here, but I think that during the committee's work I can get an explanation of how it is all connected. However, as it looks now and in relation to what we have said before, the Danish People's Party is, as I said, in favour of this proposal. But before we can take a final position, we need clarification in the work of the committee. I don't think we can get that right now. But we are ready to look into it and get an explanation from Enhedslisten. I have seen what the BAT cartel has come up with, and I understand that it may be more or less that I have misunderstood it is their proposal that lies here. It may be that Mr. Finn Sørensen can clarify whether this is directly their proposal. However, as I have said, we are, from the outset, very positive about this and are ready to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174841	There are brief comments. I've registered Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen I don't know if that's true. That's not true, it's a mistake, so we'll skip it. Then we move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen, and it's probably not a mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428174854	Thank you to the rapporteur and also thank you for the positive expression in terms of working on it. I can confirm that the model is not, from words to words, the model proposed by the BAT cartel, i.e. the trade unions in the building industries. They have come to the conclusion that now they actually want to have legislation on this, and they do not think it is a problem to do so in relation to the Danish collective agreement model. In reply to the rapporteur's question, I should just like to clarify this straight away: yes, the proposal is that chain liability applies all the way down the chain of subcontractors and subcontractors, so that the contractor or contractor can be held responsible, including for what happens at the extreme. And if you do not, it will lose its value, because then there will always be a place where wage dumping can take place, where workers cannot have their rights and where taxpayers cannot get their money in the form of proper legal tax payments. So it is true that it is all the way down the chain. And then I just need to hear from the rapporteur whether this is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175001	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175003	That is what we are talking about. We would like a subcontractor to hire another subcontractor to hire the other subcontractor to be held responsible for it, that is to say not to let it go all the way up, but to hire the fraudster who is responsible for it. That is the problem we are interested in, and that is what I thought we could at least clarify during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175036	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175038	Okay. Thank you for making that clear. We are, of course, prepared to continue working on this issue. It can be screwed up in the way that you first have to turn to the next link in the chain, that is, just above yourself, and then up, and if you can't get through, the bet, the bill, will end up with the main contractor. Or a model can be chosen and this is the one we've been thinking about where you can go directly to the main contractor. However, it is certainly worth discussing how it can be combined, and there are different arrangements in a number of EU countries that we can look at to see how to turn this together. We can, of course, make a report about this or how we can now proceed with it. So it's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175124	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175125	I think this is a positive approach to it and we are ready to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175130	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. And we can then move on to the next rapporteur, and that is from the SF, and that is Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175145	SF thinks this proposal is a good one. It is clear that it is an unsustainable situation that there are foreign companies that can run off from the bill quite frankly, disappear somewhere in Eastern Europe, no one can get hold of them and no one knows where they are, but there is no payroll or there is no tax or VAT paid. This is an unsustainable situation. There is a good idea of chain liability because it means that the main contractor will think twice before he enters with a company that is not quite fine at the edge. I also believe that introducing chain liability will mean that there will be more Danish companies, and also smaller craft companies, which will be used for this work, because there will probably be a tendency for the Danish companies to have more orderly conditions in general than some other companies that come here. What we can then say is that in any case, chain liability is a good idea in terms of non-payment of taxes, VAT and fines. These may be fines under the Working Conditions Act, as is also mentioned in the proposal, and may be fines for non-subscribing to the RUT register. Then there is the question of pay. There we also think it is a good idea to do it through such chain liability as described here, but SF knows, of course, that an agreement or a proposal has been made by the organisation CO-industry on the part of the trade union movement and the employers' organisation DI, where one operates with a model in terms of pay, where one has to collect a contribution from all Danish employers. This means that honest employers also have to pay for dishonest employers. It is, of course, a proposal which one can say does not have the same preventive aim, and in this way the starting point is that it is probably not such a good idea to do so. It is all the more reasonable that those responsible for what is going on should be paid. All right. This is an unfinished discussion, and there are probably different debates about it • perhaps also about some kind of legislation • and SF has not at this moment taken a position on how we will deal with such a possible proposal, so we will do so at the time it is available. What is clear, however, is that in any case, it would be an excellent idea to make chain liability with regard to non-payment of tax, VAT and fines. It will have a good preventive aim, no matter how the wage discussion ends. So we support the Enhedslisten proposal. I would just like to add that, in his speech, the Minister for Employment mentioned that he has also recently made agreements with Poland and Latvia on social dumping, that I think it is very welcome, because the companies that come here, which are posted companies under EU rules, are in fact required to have an existing company in the country of origin. The famous mailbox is not enough. There has been a great deal of inertia in the system as regards whether Poland and other countries provided the information that the Danish authorities need to be able to determine whether it is now a genuinely posted company or not. There we welcome it with great pleasure in the SF that the Minister for Employment has made agreements with some of these countries that there should now be a good way of information when the Danish authorities ask for this information. We also look forward to agreements being made with a number of countries, as the Minister mentioned here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175548	There is one brief comment. It's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175551	Thank you and also thank you for the rapporteur's support for our proposal. The Enhedslisten, of course, shares the rapporteur's satisfaction at the success of some agreements with these countries. However, I also understand the rapporteur's view that it is not something that can replace us making chain responsibilities, because these agreements do not in themselves ensure that those countries also work very well and actively with things, or that they are able to manage their own businesses at all. The rapporteur referred to this proposal from the CO industry, etc. I really don't want to deal with that today. Does the rapporteur agree with the Enhedslisten's proposal as it stands, or is it only that part of what concerns chain liability for tax and VAT and social contributions? I think that is how I am going to ask for full clarity on this matter. Does the rapporteur agree that it is also good to make legislation on chain liability for wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175651	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175653	First of all, it is quite right to see that these agreements with Poland and other countries are good for them to provide information on whether foreign firms actually exist in Eastern European countries, but that they cannot in any way replace chain liability at all in relation to the fight against social dumping. After all, we all know that it is a multitude of tools that need to be used. With regard to the issue of pay, the SF Enhedslisten's proposal supports, also in terms of remuneration, as it stands today, as we agree that the wage requirements that a main contractor has to meet if a subcontractor runs off the bill are the wage requirements where there is a professional or labour law decision that says there is a wage requirement. That is what this is all about. That is certainly our view. However, when I touched on the second question, this is because if at some point there is a proposal for a different model similar to what appears to be working on both in the organisations and perhaps also politically, then we will take a position on that model when it comes to it. However, as things stand today, we support it on that point too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175802	Sir. Finn Sørensen? No. And there are no more questions for Mr. Eigil Andersen, then sir. Eigil Andersen is finished. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428175837	Thank you very much. I understand that this proposal, among other things. This is because there should be a desire in the trade union movement to introduce chain liability. When there is such a desire, we believe that it is an expression of both blowing and having flour in your mouth at the same time. On the one hand, you will have private agreements which you yourself agree to, and which are at least what has been the intention so far to those who have joined them, but on the other hand you will still have the help of politicians to spread them so that they apply to everyone, at least to all foreigners who have the courage to come to Denmark and offer a sensible product at a reasonable price. Basically, it is absurd for the trade union movement to ask politicians to extend the agreements to all people. When there are collective bargaining, the trade union movement will be all the way up in the red if there is so much as one politician who makes a single pep about what such an agreement, for example. could contain in relation to ensuring Danish competitiveness etc. Then you get mad. But obviously you want the same politicians to spread these agreements to everyone. So you want to decide the content, but you want politicians to spread it to everyone. Basically, we believe that the desire to introduce chain liability is an expression of fear of international competition, and we should not be. In Denmark we should not be afraid of the competition that exists between Denmark and other countries. This is something that we must take to heart; it is something that we must be capable enough to get something good out of, and we can do so in Denmark without introducing all sorts of fancy solutions to how we get rid of the competition. It is also noteworthy that employees who are exposed to long, by far the hardest wage competition are, in fact, those who complain least. Try to think of the wage competition faced by employees in companies such as Danfoss and LEGO and other manufacturing companies. It is far, far harder than that which employees in, for example. The construction industry is exposed to. In general, this whole discussion is probably an expression of the fact that the limits of what is competitive and what is like a domestic market are constantly changing. It's moving in these years too, there's no doubt about that. We see that there are more foreign companies and employees coming to Denmark and offering different services and products, and we in the Liberal Alliance think this is a good thing. In fact, we think it is good that there will be competition, including in the construction industry and other industries, because we can see that we have very high costs of building in Denmark. That is why competition is a good thing. We believe that we must support the Danish model, which says that pay and working conditions are something that is agreed between the social partners, and that is something that is guaranteed by the social partners, and this bill will be a dispute with that. That's why we can't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180241	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180247	Well, I would just ask the rapporteur to confirm that this proposal is not about making a law that says that agreements should apply to all and the whole of the labour market and that this proposal is not specifically aimed at foreign companies. It is more so for the sake of clarity if there are any citizens who followed this debate. So I would like the rapporteur to confirm that content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180316	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180319	I can't confirm that. I can't. If it is the case that you want to introduce chain liability in Denmark, then that must apply to everyone and not just to some people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180333	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180336	Then the rapporteur was indirectly confirmed that it is not specifically aimed at foreign companies. Thank you. This applies to all companies. Will the rapporteur also confirm that this proposal is not about the fact that agreements should apply to everyone? That is just what I would like the rapporteur to confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180354	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180357	I firmly believe that this resolution is aimed at foreign companies. That is what we are hearing in the debate. When you stand up, it is a problematizing that foreign companies come to Denmark and, in quotation marks, subjugate Danish agreements, as if when two parties have agreed a certain price on a product, in this case labour, it would be problematic that some others sold the same product at a lower price. It's not something we're problematizing in all other areas... that we think it's a good thing that there's competition... but you just don't think so in this specific area. So, no, I cannot confirm that it is not specifically aimed at foreign companies either. They are not mentioned, but that is the intention. People are trying to convince someone that intention is different from that, but I don't think anyone is seeing this debate that believes in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180457	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180501	You can imagine a lot of things when you're talking about chain liability. There can be a Danish and a foreign and a Danish and a foreign; there could also be a foreign and then seven Danish. Well, there's a lot of combination options. What I really want to say to the rapporteur is that when we have been very aware in other legislation that in such a chain of tasks there may actually be problems, for example. when we want to be sure that water, heat and sanitation are in order in such a building when it is delivered and also a number of years later, because it is expensive to repair, or that electricity is in order in such a building as you hand over, it has meant that you actually have the opportunity to make subcontractors responsible. And there is a fairly widespread system in which the main contractor in any case makes sure to have serious companies doing that sort of thing. I am just saying this because it is, after all, a strange distinction that exists in the Liberal Alliance, where things like this really have to be right, but not in terms of pay and working conditions; you can just do that as it suits you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180603	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180605	Well, I don't get it. It's a distinction that's only in the Liberal Alliance. As far as I can tell, unless something wild happens to the rest of the discussion of this motion for a resolution, there is no majority in favour of it. But what will happen if we introduce such chain liability, in which the main contractor must therefore be liable for pay and working conditions down the chain and it is respected all the way down, is that it will be much more expensive to build things. That's one. Because, if you are responsible, you have to make sure that you can pay in the end, and that means either you have to insure yourself or you have to set aside some capital which, moreover, has to last a long time, because such cases will be able to run for many years afterwards. This means that there will be a lot of money that will not be working; a lot of capital that will not be working in society where it could create new growth and employment. That's one thing. The second thing is that if you introduce chain liability by law, it is the authorities who must ensure that the law is observed. This means that the trade union movement will undermine its own role as those who ensure that there are agreements in the companies and that these are respected. Then you might as well put a public health and safety inspector to do so, which is why I am not sure that it is really in the interests of the trade union movement to introduce such things. One of the reasons why the trade union movement is relatively strong in Denmark compared to other countries is that we do not regulate such things, so that we leave it to the social partners and not to the authorities to ensure that things are in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180753	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180755	Thank you. I still think it's a weird and weird mix-up of all sorts of things. Let's say it's SKAT you owe something to, yes, of course the authorities go in; the union doesn't take care of that. Of course, if it is a question of working conditions, the authorities also go in and control it; but it is rare that it can happen in a chain. If it is a question of plumbing, electricity, or a building having to be delivered on time, then I must promise the Liberal Alliance that the hammer will fall quickly either in the form of fines or fines to the underlying contractor or those under him, or of long court proceedings afterwards. We have known about this, and that is what makes it a little more expensive to build houses where the quality is in order than if you just get some fuckers to build them. That is why I do not understand the artificial distinction between it, whether the technical is in order and the timetables are in order, and whether the pay and working conditions are in order, i.e. that it is something quite different. Can one not see it as a whole, so that all things must be in order when we build houses in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180859	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428180901	The distinction is, of course, that we have some regulatory requirements. That is the whole point of paying a certain tax, for example. If you don't pay that tax, then the authorities will come after you. And there we have chosen to say very deliberately in Denmark that exactly the pay and working conditions are something that the social partners themselves stand for. That is the real difference between the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance and also several other parties, I sense. Just when it comes to pay and working conditions, it is therefore in the Danish model that it is something that the social partners stand for, whereas paying taxes and then we can discuss whether it is too high or too low, and we also have many discussions about this kind of thing that has been agreed in the Folketing, and therefore it is precisely the tax authorities, i.e. public authorities, that come out if there are problems in this area. That is just what I am saying: we are not interested in the fact that pay and working conditions and the respect of agreements become a task for the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181007	No one else wanted to make a brief comment. I thank Joachim B. Olsen and give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181021	Here too, Conservatives understand very well the intention of the proposal to avoid social dumping and to avoid EU rules on the free movement of workers undermining our labour market. We Conservatives fully agree that this is unacceptable and must be stopped, because it is unacceptable when foreign companies or foreigners operate in Denmark outside Danish laws and regulations. This is precisely why we have created the RUT register, in which all foreign companies must be registered if they are to operate in Denmark. Although we sympathise with the idea behind the proposal, we do not believe that it is the right solution to be proposed. We Conservatives want to safeguard the Danish model, and this proposal, like the two previous proposals, challenges the Danish model. As I also mentioned in the previous proposals, it is and must continue to be the social partners who agree on the definition of pay and working conditions. In addition, it seems somewhat difficult to see through the economic and legal consequences of the proposal. If, as a private person, a company or public authority, you suddenly get to hang on to a huge bill because, for example, subcontractors. Cheating on VAT will, of course, keep everyone from getting jobs done in the future, and a lot of activity in Denmark will stop immediately. It is not really very solidarityal. Who, as a private person, wants to build a new house, which municipality will send out an assignment and which company will even use suppliers? The only people who get really busy, and they get really, really busy, will be law firms, because there will be years of wrangling and fighting. We Conservatives agree with Enhedslisten on the issue, but not on the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181200	There was just one brief comment to make, Mr President. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181207	I would like to repeat what I said to the Liberal Alliance: it is strange that the cost of ensuring that wages and working conditions are in order is a problem, while the cost of providing the quality of a house, plumbing and other things is something else. So there is no one to refrain from buying a house or building a house, because you know that there are authorized rules on how it should be with water, heat and sanitation and electrical installations, and even if you can hang on to it as the main contractor afterwards, you build the house anyway. There's no problem with this. There is only the problem, then, that one has a wild aversion against the workers being protected in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181245	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181249	It's not that simple, sir. Christian Juhl. It is precisely the case that if there is a subcontractor who slops or cheats with, for example, VAT or with the accounts, it will end up being the small master craftsman who is stuck on the bill. It's so unsolidarous. In fact, I do not understand at all, nor does the rest of my party, how the Enhedslisten can get itself to put forward a proposal that would make the conditions and opportunities worse for small businesses. They're gonna be extra hard hit by these rules. They won't necessarily be able to handle a subcontractor who cheats, and they won't have a Chineseman's chance to discover that cheating. They want to go bankrupt, and so Enhedslisten has de facto taken the livelihood out of the mouths of these small traders. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181343	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181346	I do not think Mrs Mai Mercado knows how this is really happening. The construction is a hard business, and if a main contractor is to have a subcontractor, he will take care in the head and elsewhere to ensure that the subcontractor and the subcontractor's subcontractor can do what they have to do on time and, secondly, that it is according to Danish legislation. This means that if anyone in the chain cheats, they'll be counted at box one. That is why I find it strange that, when we have all this system to ensure the quality of a building in terms of formal technical matters, it should be a huge problem, that there is also a small sentence in the very material that is being made, in which it says that it also applies to pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181433	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181436	Well, it has to be said that Enhedslisten is not the small trader's party. By the way, Enhedslisten probably never was. But this proposal will exactly mean that if a subcontractor cheats and I would like to see Mr. Christian Juhl guarantees that there will be no cheating; it may be with accounts, VAT; it may be with all sorts of things hanging the master craftsman on that bill and ending up going bankrupt. I just have to say that the Conservative People's Party does not want to take the livelihood out of the mouths of the small master craftsmen. In fact, we want more jobs to be created. We want to strengthen the Danish business community, not to weaken it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181515	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. It's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428181529	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Mai Mercado very much for taking up the substance of this matter. So there is enough reason to just outline how it is actually intended that such chain responsibility should work and what effect it should have. After all, the main contractor, the main provider of a service, can be made financially responsible for what has happened further down the chain, all the way down the last link of the chain. That's what it's all about. What effect will this have? This will have the effect that it will be a competitive advantage for all the companies that have order in the papers, all the companies that pay their taxes and their VAT and their social contributions on time, and all the companies that pay the wages they have now agreed with their employees. It will be a competitive advantage for those companies, and that is, I believe, the majority of small Danish craft enterprises. They're companies like that. This would be a major competitive advantage for them, because it would mean that if such general legislation were to be drawn up on chain liability, all main contractors would think more than once when they hired subcontractors and subcontractors. They would then secure themselves in the contracts through e.g. a guarantee that there was cover, that the rules had been complied with all the way down the chain. And that would be an advantage for the companies that have order in the papers. That's what it's all about. A general law on chain liability will really separate the sheep from the goats on the Danish labour market. I hope that this argument will convince Mrs Mai Mercado because I have responded to her concerns about it. If I cannot convince her by that, it is, of course, possible to obtain the suspicion that is also evident in relation to other rapporteurs who have been up here, that she actually has the view that there should be no regulation under these conditions. It's gonna be like the Liberal Alliance's, uh, sir. Joachim B. Olsens says, be free competition too, free competition where you don't pay tax and don't pay a proper salary or don't pay the wage that has been agreed. So that's the core of this whole case. How can this be done practically? It's not that complicated. In fact, the construction has already developed a good model for how to secure as a main supplier or supplier with subcontractors against unreasonable losses. There is, in fact, something called the building guarantee system in the building industry, I think it is still called, where it is necessary to obtain a certain amount of contract, that a guarantee sum, which can then be written off on a regular basis as the quality of the building is found to be in order, is made available as a supplier or contractor. The same model can of course be introduced in relation to chain liability, which is also about wages and taxes and social contributions. So it's not that complicated. Such arrangements exist in a number of other EU countries, and it has obviously not caused the huge fights to get there, so why should it be so difficult at home? Then there is the discussion over and over again that it will then be an intervention in the Danish model. It's some kind of construction you've created there, so you have an excuse to stop participating in it. It is clearly described in the proposal that this should be the salary now agreed with the employees. There is no need to legislate on this. So I would just like to refer to the fact that no one has really used it, but it is, as it were, still a little underlying in the Minister's arguments at least, perhaps also in the Socialist Group that this may well cause some problems in relation to EU law. The Socialist rapporteur would certainly not give a clear answer to the question. I just have to say that there is no reason for these concerns, because there is, after all, a so-called enforcement directive which clearly states that it is perfectly legal for the Member States to introduce chain liability. A very limited form of chain liability has been described in this enforcement directive, which cannot really be used for anything, but at the same time the directive states that Member States are free to apply more far-reaching schemes than those described in the directive, which also applies in other sectors. So there is no problem; it's kind of just about getting started. I think that all the effort we have made with the government to combat social dumping shows that it is needed. When you look at how many companies are actually caught up in the fact that things are not right, there is a very good reason for introducing such legislation as we are proposing here. There we can point to the fact that SKAT has demanded payments of up to a few hundred million kroner in the course of their visits to the companies. I would therefore like to question whether all this money is now coming back in. Are all the fines that we have imposed on companies for lack of RUT registration, etc. coming in? There is a chain liability, after all, a really effective means of doing so. One last thing, which is also important, is the trade union movement's difficulty in recovering the debts they have. The trade union movement in the construction industry reports that they have 30 million. kr. For the benefit of foreign companies from trade union law cases... money that they probably never see, and to the extent that they get them home at all, it takes a huge administrative cost for the trade union movement to get that money back home. This problem will also be resolved. So to the end: something that is also important in the resolution that we have tabled here is that if you implement it, it will be a really effective protection against undeclared work • probably the most effective tool you can possibly put in place there. For such a motion for a resolution as this will lead to the separation of the sheep from the goats on the Danish labour market, and this will be a huge competitive advantage for all the companies that are in order. And that is why we have not encountered any protests from any of these small craft companies, which the bourgeois wing in particular is pushing ahead of them, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428182230	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak either, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. If no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428182250	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428182313	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party will with B 73 require the government to make legislative proposals that adults working with e.g. people with development inhibition in institutions, in communities of residence and similar places, after consent, must submit an adult certificate. The certificate shall show that the person concerned has not been convicted under the criminal code for a number of specific criminal offences, including sexual offences. The motion for a resolution is inspired by the children's certificates. Such certificates are compulsory for sports associations, scout clubs, day-care institutions, etc. to catch up. They must do so before hiring or employing persons who must have direct contact with, or have permanent contact with, children under the age of 15 and who have the possibility of direct contact with them. The government fully agrees with the proposers on the importance of preventing, among other things, For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The Government therefore believes that the intention behind the proposal is both sympathetic and important. But if we look at the proposal, we have to note that it is unclear on a large number of points. In addition, it is unclear whether the solution outlined is in line with the scale of the problem. We have asked in KL, and they have stated that they do not collect information in this area. Furthermore, KL is not immediately aware of specific examples of employees who have previously been convicted of criminal offences. All the unclear elements must be seen in the light of the fact that already today you can obtain or ask for consent to obtain criminal records and that with the supervisory reform, we have been given a tool to ensure managemental focus on working targetedly to prevent abuses in housing offers. That is why the government cannot support the proposal. As I said, the resolution is unclear on a number of points. That is why we do not know how extensive it really is. DF proposes to negotiate that the proposal not only covers sexual crimes, but may also include, for example, sexual crimes. violence and theft. So we don't know what to actually include in an adult certificate. It is also not clear how long DF imagines that the information should be on the adult certificate. Is it for a shorter period, or e.g. to the registered person's 80th birthday? Nor is it clear whether the proposal covers persons already employed and working with the target group or whether it is aimed solely at new recruitments. If the proposal covers persons already employed, it will update a number of employment law issues, for example: the consequences of the employment law if a staff member refuses to consent to obtaining the adult certificate. Nor is it clear whether the proposal includes any volunteers who are established among the residents and help the residents but who are not paid for the effort. Finally, I have also noted that the DF has not indicated in the motion for a resolution how it should be financed. So it's also unclear. All these uncertainties must be seen in the light of the fact that, firstly, the government has already taken initiatives to prevent the target group from being subjected to sexual abuse and other abuses. The initiatives of the supervisory reform, which entered into force in 2014, shall contribute to ensuring that staff in the boforms covered by the supervision do not commit attacks against the target group. The Social Protection Agency shall decide on the approval of tenders on the basis of an assessment of whether the 24-hour offer is of the requisite quality. Quality is assessed on the basis of an overall assessment of a number of themes which are concrete in quality criteria. One of the criteria is that the offer prevents abuse, including both physical and psychological and sexual violence between citizens in the offer, abuse by citizens against employees and abuse by employees against citizens. The approval is a condition for the 24-hour offer to be included in the municipal supply. The target group referred to in the motion for a resolution is weak citizens, and it is precisely for this reason that supervision has strengthened the focus of the heads of 24-hour services on preventing violence between all citizens and employees. It is a responsibility that the leaders must take on, and it is a responsibility on which supervision is measured. As far as I am concerned, supervision and quality work are a very good instrument for working targetedly to prevent abuse in everyday life. The offer must focus on preventing violence every day and not only occasionally in connection with staff recruitment. Secondly, it is already an opportunity to obtain criminal records. The rules relating to the criminal record and criminal records belong to the Ministry of Justice, which has informed me that there are several possibilities for obtaining criminal records and decisions on criminal offences, the law on drugs and the restraining order. As the rules are today, it is possible for private and public authorities, with consent, to obtain private criminal records containing information on criminal offences which may be relevant to those who work with the disabled. Decisions will be based on the private criminal record for 2, 3 or 5 years, depending on the penalty. It is also possible, in a number of cases, for public authorities to obtain, with or without consent, public criminal records which also contain information on, inter alia,: Criminal offences. On a public record, the decisions are based on 10 years. Thus, both public and private employers today have the opportunity to obtain or request consent to obtain a criminal record where appropriate. From this point of view, I believe that the proposal here creates a great deal of automatic and, in other words, unnecessary bureaucracy. New types of criminal records and new cases for both public and private employers will therefore have to be developed. This must also be seen in the light of the fact that I am quite sure that all the parties that are in here today have so much advocated debureaucratisation. Finally, I would like to point out that with the rules we have for private and public criminal records today, a decision can be seen for a certain period of time. The rules reflect a balance between, on the one hand, considerations of inter alia: the citizens and, on the other hand, the opportunity for rehabilitation that we, as a society, should give to those who have endured a punishment. For example: a theft committed in youth many years ago prevent a person who has endured his or her punishment and has embarked on another life course from working with people with disabilities many years later? The Ministry of Justice has informed me that there is currently work going on in the Ministry of Justice to look more generally at what role the criminal records should play in the future and whether the balance in terms of rehabilitation should be adjusted. I believe that this is the right way to deal with the ideas expressed in the motion for a resolution, rather than creating different types of criminal record tests for different specific areas and where special rules should apply for catching up and application. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the government fully agrees with the intention of the proposal, but it is already possible to obtain or ask for consent to obtain criminal records. With the Social Protection Agency, we focus on preventing abuse and, as I said, work is currently being done in the Ministry of Justice to look more generally at what role the criminal records should play in the future. It is therefore very unclear whether the proposal, which even involves bureaucracy, is in line with the problem. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183102	There is one brief comment. It's from Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183105	I think it was a thin round from the Minister, precisely because the Danish People's Party is suggesting that this is something that we should discuss together and also in relation to the demarcation. Something else is that the minister says they've contacted KL. Why has the Minister not contacted the disability organisations? Why has the Minister not contacted LEV to learn about their experience in this area? The fact that nobody really knows a lot about this is because there's probably a lot of blackouts in this area. But then I would like to hear the Minister: what does the Minister think should happen if there are nursing staff who commit an attack? Now it is the case today that you can get away from the court for up to 5 years, when you cannot work with people, but you can then do so, even if you have committed sexual abuse or anything else. What does the Minister think it takes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183159	I am a little sorry about that question because I have spent 7 minutes and 13 seconds explaining the government's position and, as a matter of fact, what is already happening, for example. that criminal records can already be obtained where necessary and appropriate. I have explained what the Ministry of Justice is doing, and it is currently working to look at this area, and so I have also explained how unclear this proposal really is how much bureaucracy it can actually bring about. There is no provision for funding, and unfortunately it is just really, really difficult to understand. I could understand the intention, but I have no problem with that, but it is a very, very unclear proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183243	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183245	That is precisely why we are proposing to have a discussion on this, on what these certificates should contain and where the demarcation should be. In relation to the economy of this, I just have to say that I am aware of the fact that 8 million people are smoking. kr. This is because no draft law on the adult provision is being implemented, it is being withdrawn. There was an opportunity to implement it. You wouldn't discuss or look at this area at all to see how big the problem is, even though we actually know that these things are going on. I have a whole list of what has happened, also in relation to sexual abuse and to thefts. Then I just think it is a pity that the Minister will not discuss this at all and take it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183329	There I think we should correct ourselves, because we are on this platform in turn all to discuss the proposal. Shooting me in my shoes, not taking it seriously, I think it's just gross enough. I have to say that quite clearly. After all, I used my speaking time, the 7 minutes and 13 seconds, to tell you that we are actually taking it seriously and that I agree with the intentions of the proposal, but I also think I explained that it is possible to obtain criminal records in all sorts of other areas, both for private and public, and I also think that somewhere I explained how bureaucratic this is likely to be, and I do not think that anyone is being served by this. This isn't about us not taking it seriously. If there is an abuse, it is a police matter, and I know that the right authorities will, of course, deal with this matter. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183425	This has led to a few more brief comments. The first one's from sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183432	I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for a proper and serious examination of a serious issue and for clear signals that this is, of course, something that society must take seriously. I have tried to have wise people find out whether we have had any specific cases on this subject, because it should be the case that what the Folketing is doing is rooted in a reality we know about: if there have been police cases, there have been cases mentioned in the press and so on.? I haven't been able to find them. It is possible that the Minister, who has a slightly larger helper, has had the opportunity to find such cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183511	Well, as I said, we've asked in KL, and they've also informed us, as I said, that they're not collecting information in this area. But it also includes the fact that KL has stated that they do not immediately know or know specific examples of employees who have previously been convicted of criminal offences.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183529	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183532	So I just have to ask the Minister: is it usual practice for the Folketing to make legislation on gut sensations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183543	I would, of course, like to warn against making legislation based on gut feeling, but sticking to cooking instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183554	It might be interesting to have a scientific study of whether this has never happened, but let us move on to the next brief remark. It's from Mrs. Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183605	Thank you. We are dealing with a bourgeois group which cannot resign itself, and they may not be able to ask for their own help. We have clear knowledge from abroad that there are abuses in this area too, and yet we choose to say that this is what we are pouring down the board, and we must by no means deal with it, because at the moment a resolution is voted down in the Chamber, nothing is going to happen anymore. Is that how I should understand the attitude of the Minister of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183642	I think it's sad that you start shooting each other like that in your shoes. I think the Left should try to deal with the content of the motion for a resolution, because I am so surprised if the Left supports this proposal. I thought the Left was a party that went against bureaucracy. At any rate, I have heard that from both the party and from some of the negotiations we have had. I also do not think that the Left is looking forward to hearing very much about what is going to happen to the people who are already employed. I would also like to look forward to hearing the views of the Left on the people who are volunteers in the various places. I look forward to that very much. But that does not mean that the intention is not accepted, and I have said so. If there is an attack, it is a police task and the Ministry of Justice is actually looking into the area of certificates. So that is the way it is and I would be concerned if it were the opposite that a criminal record can already be obtained today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183741	Mrs. Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183744	The Minister could have a conversation with his colleague, the Minister for Culture, because it is not many days ago that we voted in this Chamber for one to be a student in the country's libraries, one must also have a child certificate that is clean. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183805	It is, of course, that when you work with children, it is by its very nature that there must be a child certificate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183812	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We go further in the rapporteur's line and the first is Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428183830	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has tabled this motion for a resolution, which deals with the fact that adults who work with the disabled and people with physical and mental impairments in institutions, communities of residence and the like must, after consent, submit an adult certificate showing that they have not been convicted under the criminal code for violation of a number of specific provisions. These must be defined after negotiations with the parties of the Folketing. In other words, an open debate has been set up in which we can contribute together to a description of exactly what we want to do with it. The background is, of course, that we have a knowledge that sexual abuse is taking place against the disabled and against people with physical and mental impairments, and that is why it is a reasonable idea for us to create a similarity between the well-known child certificates which were introduced several years ago and the adult area of people with this disability and development impairment. Yes, the Left is very much in favour of the proposal and is happy to support it. We think that this should be a logical consequence of the fact that we have introduced certificates in the field of children. And yes, we would like to be the mouthpiece to also provide a shielding and protection for our adults who have a evolutionary inhibition. These are weak citizens, and all we needed was for us not to put up a defense, so we are sure that we are at least hiring someone who has not been punished in the past. In addition, it will happen that the employees who are on the spot will thus remove the suspicion that may fall on them if there is an attack. A requirement for adult certificates is about more than the certificates themselves. After all, it sends a signal to the responsible leaders to pay attention to what is going on and what behaviour there is on the ground. We believe that it is important to take this responsibility very seriously when, in the day-to-day work, you manage settlements and institutions and that you are aware that things are working well. The reality is that even if you make the acquisition of adult certificates compulsory, we are aware that we cannot make a waterproof guarantee, but we can at least be sure that any violators do not have a chance to get employment in areas where there are developmental obstacles. After all, we must bear in mind that invaders do not start by standing in a register. In other words, an infringement must first be committed before they can be registered. Nevertheless, we are convinced that it is better that a clean record has been handed in when you get a job, and so we are quietly concerned that we know what the area is like. We'd like to take a positive view of this. We would like to see a committee procedure where we can do an objective job on it, and we are not as concerned as it seems the government is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184149	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184154	Thank you to the rapporteur. I should just like to ask what the rapporteur says about the fact that we know that there are a number of abuses taking place. Could the rapporteur then tell us where the rapporteur has his knowledge? I have read that we have some foreign studies, but are they transferable to Danish conditions? I know the Danish institution's preparedness fairly well and know that there is an even very high ethics in this area. I would therefore like the rapporteur to share with us whether there are Danish examples of what they say.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184236	At this moment, I would like to be the voice of our developmentally handicapped, who cannot speak up for themselves. We have foreign investigations which show that there is a high risk and a high likelihood of abuse. Then you can take the talk with the organizations in Denmark about what they evaluate. When we see that there is a situation in Denmark, what do we do? There's nothing we can do today. We can hire him in another institution later. There won't be an eye that will know that something has happened. My acquaintance has made an anonymous record, and I can say that it is worrying if there is just one case. It's too much for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184326	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184328	I think we share that view. This should not mean that we should neglect anything, but we should not create unnecessary fear for the residents who are in residences or institutions in different ways or for the staff who do a great deal of work for this society on a daily basis. So I ask: when we already have the opportunity to obtain criminal records and we are deliberately working to have a proper staff policy and a proper ethics with regard to the residents, what is this tool that the rapporteur lacks?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184407	I would like to help create a direct parallel to the child certificates we made together many years ago. Only a few weeks ago, we voted in favour of the Minister of Culture's homework certificates. I do not see the big difference between being 17 years and 9 months and being 18 years and 2 months, but there is a sky of difference at the moment, because the moment you round the 18 years, you are in the adult area, and then you will not be guaranteed protection of any kind at all if you do not require a certificate from the place of employment. As long as we cannot say that there are clear lines and we have everything under control, I would like to help make adult certificates as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184503	I thank Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, and that is for the Socialists, Mr President. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184520	Thank you. I do not think there is any human being who will speak against the good intention of trying to protect people who find it difficult to defend themselves against abuse or exploitation. That's not what this speech is about. However, the motion for a resolution tabled here today raises a number of questions of principle and a whole series of uncertainties, as the Minister has also mentioned. Institutions, municipalities and regions in charge of the operation of housing services for people with reduced physical and mental functions are currently responsible for ensuring the safety of residents in everyday life. It is part of the ethics involved in the training which justifies recruitment in these offers. It is my experience that the institutions and the offers are very much aware of their responsibilities in this context. The proposal is aimed at institutions, communities and the like. It is therefore a very broad spectrum to which the motion for a resolution should apply. In a lot of these offers, not to say all of them, residents have the status of staying in their own homes. So what are the rules that apply? In addition, we have legislation that makes it clear, as the rapporteur of the Left said a moment ago, that all people will be of age. How, then, will it be ensured that people, regardless of their degree of function, are also people with independence under the law of authority? Are we going to go so far as to take the initiative of being under-enhanced in order to protect a citizen from possible alliances which the outside world considers inappropriate? It goes without saying that people who cannot be sure of this themselves must be protected, but the proposal here raises a great many unresolved issues, and we must also ensure that the group can retain rights in its own elections. Of course, own elections must be based on equality, and if that is not the case, it is, of course, a police matter which the Minister has explained. We do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184759	There is one brief comment. It's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184803	I have to say that I would also have been surprised if the rapporteur were to do so. But is the rapporteur aware that there are studies showing that people with disabilities are more at risk than others, that they are at greater risk of being exposed to both theft and other crime, as well as abuse and sexual abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184828	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184831	Yeah. Is Mrs Karina Adsbøl also aware of the great amount of professional work that is going on in the institutions in which they are in, and that this work risks being discredited by the fact that it is being called into question and that this is something special? There are tools to obtain a criminal record; there is an ethics of the institutions around; and there is a great awareness that there is of course a need to ensure equality in this area. So I can't see anything but that you're back into something that's going on in your gut. And I do not think it is good enough to make legislation on the basis of gut feeling or what has happened somewhere abroad, to which reference is made when we already have the tools to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184921	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428184925	Now I am a social and health worker myself, and I am also a social and health assistant. I have also worked at an institution and have also handed in a child certificate and would be happy to do the same if I were going to work in a place where there were people who had a disability and other things. So it is not at all to discredit anyone, it is also to create security among the staff and, of course, among the residents. However, when the rapporteur puts it that way, perhaps the rapporteur can say what the difference is in relation to the fact that we are protecting children today with child certificates. In those cases, you can also obtain a criminal record if that is what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185001	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185004	The main difference is that children are children, and that is the way it is, and children do not have the same opportunity to know what is the norm in society. And that is why the crucial difference is that children are children. And we must respect the fact that the people with disabilities are also adults and can make their own choices, but it must of course be based on equality, and that is what Mrs Karina Adsbøl is again going in and having a little question mark over it, saying that there is enough snag to pick up, and we do not like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185042	I say thank you to Orla Hav. Then I understand that Mrs Karina Adsbøl would like to use her speaking time in such a way that she takes 5 minutes now and 5 minutes at the end, and that is a possibility that exists. So the floor is Mrs Karina Adsbøls.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185054	Thank you. To conclude, I would like to say that these people are not always 18 years of age in their minds, but that some of them will be much younger, among other things. Maybe six years. However, this resolution is about protecting some of the most vulnerable in our society and requiring the government to make proposals that adults who work with the disabled and with people with physical and mental impairments in institutions, communities and similar places should, on consent, submit an adult certificate showing that they have not been convicted under the criminal code for violation of a number of specific provisions. We wanted these to be delineated in negotiations with the parties of the Folketing. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that it is important to prevent sexual abuse of the disabled as well as people with physical and psychological impairments. Therefore, as well as the well-known children's certificates, adult certificates must be introduced for people who work with the disabled and with people with physical and mental impairments. The Danish People's Party wants this to be introduced for adults or persons aged 15 and older who are to work in communities, institutions and similar places, and we also believe that the certificate can be based on the children's certificate. For example, it may be relevant to include convictions for violence, rape, sexual abuse and theft in an adult certificate. The Danish People's Party is open to a debate on the details of the adult certificate. This is intended to protect some of the most vulnerable in our society, and we would like to discuss it with the parties of the Folketing and, of course, also with the economics. As I said earlier, we know, of course, that we have allocated funds in the rate pool for implementation and amendments to the Services Act, which will not materialise in this session, and that is why we may be able to use the funds allocated to finance this. Now the people of the Ministry have reportedly contacted several of the rapporteurs on this motion for a resolution. It was safe to ensure that they did not come into the minority. But here, from the platform, I would say that the Minister or the people of the Ministry have not contacted me to discuss this important issue or find solutions together. I hope all my colleagues in the Folketing can see the importance of preventing and finding solutions for the most vulnerable in society. At the same time, I would like to inform the rapporteurs of a question which I have put to the Minister for Justice and I quote from question 284 of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs: Will the Minister explain whether recruitment to institutions, communities of residence and similar places with developmental disabilities and with people with physical and mental impairments requires the production of a criminal record after consent? The answer given by the Ministry of Justice is: the Ministry of Justice has by decree no. 881 of 4 July 2014 on the processing of personal data in the Central Criminal Register (Criminal Register) the issuing of criminal records. However, these rules do not concern the question of in which situations, for example. an employer requires the production of a criminal record. Thus, the Ministry of Justice is not aware of whether or not recruitment to institutions etc. as mentioned in the question, the production of a criminal record is required. • Therefore, I see that there are grounds for increasing the focus on this issue, and I also look forward to us getting a good deal of this, and at the same time I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Left for their positive attitude towards this. I am dealing here with a number of cases which I am aware of in relation to these overruns, and I also know from foreign research that, unfortunately, there is not so much research into this in Denmark, and we would like it to be done that people who are less developed and who are socially and physically exposed are at greater risk of suffering an abuse, and I could actually read from one of them in relation to this. There has been a violation in an institution where the defendant, who was employed as a social and health worker, has had intercourse and other sexual relations with a pre-arranged resident of the institution. The defendant has also been convicted of this and has been deprived of his right to work in the area for three years. There we can discuss whether, when you can come up with such things, you should only be deprived of the right to work within the profession for three years. It is my own professional group that we are talking about, because I myself am trained as a social and health assistant, and this is not a hetz against the staff or anything else. It is simply an aid to them too, so that they can go to work safely every day, but also in preventing abuse and other acts against those who are most at risk in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185551	The minister has asked for a comment. He gets the chance from up here, and he gets up to three minutes. And then we'll wait with Orla Hav... maybe he'll ask Karina Adsbøl a question, so she shouldn't run too far away. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185609	I just want to take the floor a little unusually. It is the case that when one's officials are described in the way I heard in the speech, in other words that they have contacted the other political parties, it is important to emphasise that officials do not. It is rapporteurs who contact the other political parties. There's a big, big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185633	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185641	I would just like to thank the Minister for the clarification and that the Minister can confirm that the rapporteurs have contacted other parties, but certainly not the proposers. And then I will be sorry if I have said something wrong with the official work. Of course, that was not the intention, but that was how I understood it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185705	All right, then I think that this matter has been settled satisfactorily for everyone. I can see that the Minister is nodding, so that's okay with him too. Then I give the floor to Mr. Orla Hav for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185713	Yes, because I would like to ask the same question that I put to the rapporteur of the Left. In relation to the knowledge expressed by Mrs Karina Adsbøl is of course present, Mrs Karina Adsbøl does not share with us what that is. That knowledge must have been collected somewhere. And when a specific example has been given, in addition to which there is a conviction, it is an example of the functioning of the system we have. And the equivalence that there must of course be in relation to two people who hitter on braiding fingers, or whatever it is, must of course be there. We don't disagree with that. But I would like Mrs Karina Adsbøl to tell us where the knowledge comes from that makes it so necessary to make legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185804	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185806	That knowledge is, of course, in relation to those studies. Another thing is that I have asked the library to find a number of court cases precisely in these specific cases. And the Orla Sea could also ask the Library of the Danish Parliament to do so. In addition, I think it is important to distinguish, because this is not about some braiding fingers, it's about some of these people being, you might say, back in their development and maybe being six years inside. And all we know is that people who have a disability and a physical impairment are at an extra risk, and I think that should be the case when Orla Hav should have a talk about it with those who know something about the handicapped, among other things. LEV. I'm sure you could tell Orla Have something more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185855	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185857	I can assure Mrs Karina Adsbøl that I have had a lot of contacts with this environment. However, when Mrs Karina Adsbøl comes up with a proposal to cover not only the disabled but also the physically and mentally handicapped in some way, it is a very, very broad spectrum, plus that it is an area where there are real, very many feelings and where it is very important that there is a great deal of trust between the staff working there and the relatives and the residents involved. And I don't think you hit the dial and support the confidence that should be there. So I'd like to know what kind of research you're building it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185947	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428185948	I will make them in my next rapporteur's speech when I go up in the end. But is it all about trusting? In other words, there is a reason why we put forward the proposal on the children's certificates at the time. This is the same principle. This is about protecting children from abuse; it is about protecting those who are most at risk in society from abuse. I know that there are very, very many people who are doing a huge job; there are skilled educators who are skilled social assistants and social and health workers. We have some really good staff. But sometimes, among all these talented people, there are also some individuals who appear in cases that are not talked about and that are, like, in a grey area. And there's also a dark number in this area, because it's kind of taboo, and it's kind of hard to talk about. But I just think it is important to raise the debate, because this is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190047	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no more brief comments and we can move on to the next rapporteur in the series of speeches, and that is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190103	I am here on behalf of SF's social rapporteur, Trine Mach, who unfortunately has become ill. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party raises a debate which we must take seriously. In the SF we are ready to act in one way or another if there is sexual abuse against the developmentally handicapped. It is appalling, brutal and totally legal and morally unacceptable if employees or others who have to look after the people who are suffering from development are attacking them. If that happens, of course, those people have to go to court. And it may be necessary to look at the management, supervision and organisation of the institution or residence concerned. We have to do everything we can because we are not going to do that. This is a very serious suspicion expressed by the proposal. If it is justified, we must, of course, pursue it, and in that case we must do so in respect of the many skilled workers who work with the people with disabilities. However, the comments on the proposal do not contain anything about the scope and nature of the problem, and the SF must have added further knowledge, facts and reasoned assumptions rather than being able to support any legislative changes in this area. This does not happen with this proposal from the Danish People's Party, so we cannot immediately support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190203	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190210	Thank you. We're in Enhedslisten very much in line with SF, I can hear. I do not think that, as the Socialist rapporteur said before, there is any human being who cannot understand it and cannot understand the intention of the proposal. We can all imagine how difficult it must be for a person who does not have the skills to say that he is in a situation where there is a risk of abuse. That is why it is, of course, extremely important that we discuss how to avoid abuse. I think that the most important thing is to discuss how to prevent abuse. I believe that the most important tools in this context are to look at the treatment of abuse. That is the very long-term effort. We know that many of those who commit abuse have often been themselves violated. It is very important that we ensure that there are sufficient staff. It is very important that we ensure that they have the appropriate training to be able to carry out the job they have and also to be able to spot if there is any evidence of abuse. That effort is the alleral's most important to me. I also think it is extremely important to bear in mind that when we make an effort to prevent abuse, legal certainty is in place. This is where we have serious concerns about the proposal from the Danish People's Party. As several speakers have said, it is highly unclear what should be included in this proposal. There is no provision as to what offences are to be covered by the criminal code. I think it is worrying that, for example, there is a need for the European Parliament to have a say in this matter. Theft is mentioned, but it says, for example. It is not a question of how long one should be completely excluded from getting a job in this sector if one, for example, is to get a job in this sector. Once upon a time, he's been convicted of shoplifting. There's nothing about redress in this context. There is no mention of a definition of the area. All these uncertainties together mean that we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. I would also like to mention that, in the discussions on child certificates, we had a great deal of concern about the legal certainty that applies to those who have a duty to obtain certificates. That was a large part of the discussion at the time, because it became very extensive to have to obtain these certificates, and it was also unclear when new notices would be issued. Those who know discussion from then on may remember. This question is not at all touched on in this resolution. That was very much our reason to be critical of the children's certificates. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution either. Finally, I also think it is important to bear in mind that there was also a discussion in connection with the children's certificates, namely that there is a risk of adult certificates providing false security. There is, of course, not necessarily a guarantee that, if you have committed an attack once, it is recorded in your criminal record and that everyone is caught. There may well have been an attack which cannot be caught through a certificate. So there is a risk that if you think that the problem has been solved with a certificate, we will not get the effort that we need. I think that is important. But summa summarum is that we cannot support the proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190543	A brief remark from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190547	Is the rapporteur aware that it says that this motion for a resolution should be discussed between all parties in the Folketing? That is why I have written in the motion for a resolution that consideration can be given to which elements should be included and which should not be included. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that this is what the motion for a resolution says.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190612	I can confirm that this is what the motion for a resolution says. But that also means that it is unclear what they are saying yes to. There are some examples of what it could be, and I set out one of the examples where I think it is a worrying direction to take. But it is clear that there could be some things that could be discussed further. My main concern is that, not only in this area, but also in a number of other areas, time limits, access to justice, the question of the legal certainty of those who are obliged to obtain certificates, there is no clarification in this motion for a resolution. That is why we cannot vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190650	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190652	But what is being proposed is simply that you vote in favour of this debate; it has to be agreed between the parties of the Folketing. Should I then understand that the Enhedslisten will not even take the debate in the Social Affairs Committee? The Enhedslisten's rapporteur also says that it is a false security with these adult certificates, and one can say that, but one can also say that it has a preventive effect. We can also say that I do not know whether the rapporteur will say the same about the children's certificates: it is a false security. Nevertheless, I think that it gives a clear signal in relation to the children's certificates, and it would also do so in relation to the adult certificates, that we are, as we are aware, aware of this area. Because what happens is that five years after you've been convicted, this can disappear, and then, even if you've violated someone, you can work in the profession again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190740	In relation to the rapporteur's first question, I would like to say that we would like to discuss it. We have no problem with that in any way. It is always relevant to discuss how we provide greater security for those who have a disability. Nor do I believe that the fact that we are voting against the resolution is an obstacle to it. However, we are being asked to take a position on the motion for a resolution before us, and I cannot vote in favour of it because there are too many ambiguities. In relation to the second part on false security, I believe that it is a risk of both child certificates and adult certificates, which we must pay close attention to. For it is clear that if they have not committed acts of violence in the past, they will not be caught by this model of certificates, and then there is a risk that the problem will be solved. I do not think it is, and that is why it is so important that we have a broad preventive approach in this area. I think that is actually the best thing we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190831	Sir. Orla Sea, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190834	With the permission of the President, may I correct a mistake that I was guilty of? I was not able to say that my rapporteur's speech was also on behalf of the Radical Left, and I regret to the Radical Left and to the President that I have to do it this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190847	Well, you have to say anything in short remarks, so thank you for that. Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen, brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190857	Thank you. Now I understand that Enhedslisten wraps up a lot of words, that they are not actually interested in being the mouthpiece for the developmentally handicapped who cannot say away themselves. Is it then the case that Enhedslisten will not write a report in committee either? Because when we vote against it and it's done here, it's done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428190919	That depends on what we can agree on. I have been asked to take a position on a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, which is in writing here. We do not agree with the proposal, for example. because there are a large number of uncertainties. It is difficult to see how such an adult certificate should be built up at all. Is there a need for that? the debate has taken place here. What legal certainty is there in this? We cannot vote in favour of this, but we would like to discuss further how we can work on this area. I've pointed out some things that I think are important. It's about the training that's for our staff. It's about the standards we have. It is also about how we work to prevent sexual abuse, for example. in order to prevent a person who has himself been offended from being offended later. So, of course, we need to discuss on an ongoing basis how we can prevent violations from taking place. I think this is extremely important and we would very much like to take part in further discussions, but we do not support the proposal that is before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191011	Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191014	So the conclusion is: The Enhedslisten doesn't care, and there's no help for the devel opers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191022	I do not think that the rapporteur of the Left is going to have a debate or a discussion that is serious if that is the way to discuss it. I am not that I have not heard any other rapporteurs be, just because we do not think that what the Danish People's Party is doing is the right solution. Of course, we have to keep looking at how we're getting better in this area. I think it is a pity if it is the kind of debate one wants from the Left that one simply concludes that one's opponent does not care.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191047	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Thyra Frank.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191100	The Liberal Alliance is positive about the idea of adult certificates. They must show that the individual employees have not been convicted under the criminal code for a number of provisions. The comments on the proposal show that the adult certificate can benefit from the well-known children's certificates, which the Liberal Alliance also supported. It also appears that the authors of the motion for a resolution will leave, for example: violence and rape are included in such an adult certificate. In the Liberal Alliance, we look forward to further negotiations if this resolution is to be adopted and implemented in a legislative proposal. I should then like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191153	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. Then the rapporteur for the proposers has the opportunity to round off. Mrs Karina Adsbøl is on her way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191216	Thank you for that, President. People with disabilities have a significant risk of being subjected to sexual abuse. This is the conclusion of the literature study • Sexual abuse of people with disabilities, which is a review of foreign literature from 1980 to 2001 on the subject. A large proportion of the sexual assaults on people with disabilities are committed in the exposed's own surroundings at the settlement, day offer or elsewhere. In the vast majority of cases, the perpetrator is one who the person knows in advance, and the abuses are rarely reported to the authorities. Both adults and children and young people who are mentally handicapped must be protected to such an extent against abuse, theft and the like. In this context, however, attention should also be paid to sections 78 and 79 of the Criminal Code. It provides for the possibility to waive the right to pursue a profession if the circumstances of the case justify an obvious risk of abuse of the profession. These provisions are reported to be applied to a lesser extent to persons who have committed certain offences against, for example, the elderly or those with disabilities. There may also be cases of enrichment crime in which an employee steals from a resident in a settlement, which we have also seen flagrant examples of when it comes to the handicapped. The absence of justice means that the sentenced person must not take up work within the area for a period of time which varies depending on what he is convicted of. It's three years in the second one I read out, and in some cases it's five years. But that means that you will be able to work again in the area. There are three important comments on the existing regulatory framework. It is that the duration of 5 years may be insufficient. For example, in the case of sexual abuse, it should: be life-long. The provision is also said to be used to a modest extent, which may mean that there are some dark figures in the area. As I read out earlier, this is a 'can' clause which can be put into effect when issuing the criminal record; the Ministry of Justice is not aware that in this area this is the case in practice everywhere. I think that these factors, which are relevant in this area, underpin the proposal. A certificate, not least the employer's obligation to obtain it, could significantly strengthen the prevention of this type of abuse, etc. Therefore, I would also refer to international research in the form of a literature study from 2001, sexual abuse of people with disabilities, published by the SUS. It states that for people with disabilities there is a significant risk of sexual abuse. Developers are assumed to be at particular risk, partly because of the nature of their disability and partly because of the context in which they live in institutions where the abuses can be committed by several. For the handicapped, there is also a serious risk of being exposed to theft, fraud or the like. There are no actual studies, but Berlingske has run a number of articles from 2011, which have provided a number of examples. It is also obvious that consideration should be given to whether criminal offences other than sexual abuse should be included in the certificate. This must then be seen in the context of the concrete assessment under the criminal code. It may be that not all criminal offences are involved, but only those cases where a person has a job in which care is given to people with disabilities. For example, all cases where theft has been carried out by employees in this type of offer and institution should perhaps be adopted, but perhaps there is no need to include other enrichment crimes committed in other contexts. It's a balancing act. That is what I want to discuss with the other rapporteurs. We haven't seen a large number of these cases, but there are still a few a year. As I said earlier, I believe that there is a certain amount of darkness in this area. The cases are divided into two main categories: sexual abuse and theft and fraud. In both types of cases, the perpetrator is sentenced, in addition to imprisonment or fines, to the so-called disqualification of rights, which means that you cannot work within the area for a period of 2 to 5 years, but subsequently you can work in the area again. On our proposal, I also think that we are thinking, among other things. can talk about sexual abuse, including sexual intercourse or anything else, and that we can decide that if it has happened, one simply must have deprived the right to work with the most vulnerable in our society forever. Furthermore, I am also thinking that our proposal will increase the likelihood that employers will check certificates and obtain criminal records, because I do not think that is happening everywhere today. I have previously worked as a social and health worker and social and health assistant, also in home care, and have seen and heard that some have committed theft or emptied a resident's bank account and later been employed in private home care or other. That is why I think this is an important area and I think that we should take care of it, but at the same time I would like to thank the whole of the blue bloc: Liberal Alliance, Left and Conservatives for supporting the proposal and for thinking that we should act and do something in this area and also take the discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs so that we can find out what criteria should be included in the preparation of this adult certificate. This isn't about suspecting the staff. I'm a staff member myself, too, and I've been in the past. It is simply to ensure the most vulnerable. As I have said before, I know that a great many people are doing a huge job, but this is simply about prevention and about no people living in an institution being subjected to abuse or the like. Thank you for the floor and thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191904	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191922	Even if the night is our own, I would at least recommend that we keep to the speaking time and perhaps also ask a few fewer questions than we would otherwise do. The Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428191946	Thank you for the floor, President. I fully agree with that. In the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party will require the government to put forward a bill banning so-called chain-cousin marriages, so that the children of parents who are cousins may not marry a cousin themselves. The Danish People's Party justifies the motion for a resolution by saying that there is an increase in the health risks to children of parents who are related and that the proposal will promote integration. I recognise that there may be health-care challenges associated with chain-cousin marriages and cousin marriages at all. In this context, I would like to stress that the government naturally agrees that, for the sake of children, attempts should always be made to minimise health risks. When blood relatives, including cousins and cousins, have children together, there are increased health risks for the child. However, if you look at it factually, it is the case that the health authorities have indicated that this alone is a relatively small increase in health risks. In many other situations there may be a corresponding increase in health risks. This applies, for example, when the child becomes a test tube fertilization or when a woman becomes pregnant in the 40s. The health authorities have indicated that the average risk of having children in a chain-cousin marriage does not mean, from a purely medical point of view, that reproduction should be discouraged. Instead, good information, good advice and good grief should be provided. It is therefore a question of providing medical information and help to the cousins who want to marry and have children together. Having said that, a ban will also be difficult to regulate, as there will be a great risk of circumvention. For example, it will. be difficult in the case of birth certificates, baptism certificates or the like to prove to the marriage authority that one is not a cousin or a cousin. And it will be even more difficult to prove that your parents are not cousins and cousins. It is the government's view that all citizens in Denmark have the right to enjoy the same basic rights, and this applies among other things. the right to choose one's spouse. Therefore, it is the government's view that if cousins choose to marry each other and plan to have children, we must make sure that we do everything possible to ensure that they make their decision on an informed, health-care basis. This means that they know the risks associated with having children with blood relatives. It is not up to the state to impose a ban here. People must be allowed to choose for themselves, but I clearly see it as a state task to ensure that this is an enlightened choice. This must and must be achieved through health education and prevention. The free choice is important when entering into marriage, and the Danish marriage authorities must already ensure that this is not a matter of forced marriage. When we then turn to a specific group and talk about integration and, in this context, about the fight against forced marriages, social control and other honour-related conflicts, I would say that the government's national strategy against honour-related conflicts contains targeted efforts, which include: must help to ensure that no one marries against his will. And that is precisely where the real integration effort in this area lies. For if we are to effectively counteract forced marriages and social control, we must change the mindset that exists in some families, where it ends with involuntary marriages and, in this case, forced marriages. There should be no doubt whatsoever that the government wants these outdated traditions to be put to good use, but a ban on chain-cousin marriages will not strengthen integration or the fight against social control. A ban with the stated justification risks maintaining some in the view that Danish society particularly wants to restrict the rights of new dancers. When we say that young people who have to marry must be able to decide for themselves, it must also go the other way: that we should not regulate who people are going to marry. Thus, the health risks to children of parents who are chain-cousin spouses must be addressed through information and prevention. When you marry, it must be done according to an informed choice, so we must prevent and work on attitudes, as I have mentioned a number of times. That's the long, tough move, but we're on our way. Nor will a ban strengthen integration or prevent forced marriages. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192429	Thank you. I want the minister to stay right there. As can be seen, we are at first reading of motions for resolutions banning chain-cousin marriages by Martin Henriksen and others. I didn't get to say that. Now Mr. Martin Henriksen a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192447	Thank you. I need to know exactly what the government's attitude to cousin marriages is. So, is it the government's view that it is unproblematic and therefore can you just do it? All we have to do is to provide information about the risks, and otherwise it is, by and large, unproblematic. Is that the government's point of view? That was one part of it. Hopefully, if the Minister has given an answer to that, I would like to know if the Minister does not think it is a problem if it is that it takes place for generations. One thing, of course, is that once in a generation you marry your cousin or cousin, there may be many different reasons for that, but if it takes place in generation after generation, does not the Minister think that there is enough talk about an arranged marriage or some who have been squeezed into a situation that they do not feel quite comfortable about?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192538	It was such a chain question. Well, that's problematic, especially when it happens under the auspices of a forced marriage. As I also explained in my speech, there are health risks associated with it, but I think you have to divide it into two things. One is health, which is the way forward. It does not always have to be forced marriages, but we also know per. I believe that the cousin-cousin marriages which I think we are trying to prevent here, in other words to do something about them, when you also associate them with integration, are those that we also often see with forced marriages. That is quite clear, as I concluded by saying, the long, tough move that needs to be made. We have a lot of plans in this area. We have our national strategies in this area, and we can also see that it helps. Besides that, it is also forbidden to be forced to marry. That is also in the law as a whole. So if we're going to get rid of this, I actually think that's the way to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192640	Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192644	The Minister may very much respond clearly to whether the Minister believes that it is problematic or not problematic if cousin-cousin marriages take place over several generations and what practical steps will be taken to prevent them. I do not believe that the action plans for running campaigns etc. are enough. I simply do not believe that. It may then also be in some situations that it may be very, very difficult to demonstrate that a person is exposed to, for example. forced marriage. But what does the Minister think it tells us about a family and the environment in which some people grow up if, in generation after generation, they marry cousins and cousins? So is it a healthy environment? Is this a good development when we talk about integration, in the Minister's view, or is that something we should do more to prevent?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192732	It is quite true that it may be difficult to demonstrate, as the rapporteur also says, that it may be a forced marriage, but one can in fact reverse that argument and say that it can be really, really difficult to demonstrate that cousin-cousin marriage does not happen voluntarily too. That does not mean that you should not disclose. You have to. So on the very specific question of whether it is problematic that it happens in generation after generation. I find it problematic that one should continue to force one's children to marry people that the children do not want to marry. I have worked very well, as the rapporteur knows, to combat forced marriages for very, very many years and, as such, also cousin-cousin marriages that are involved in that coercion. My experience tells me that if we're gonna get rid of this, it's the long, tough move.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192824	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the first in the rapporteur's line of work, Mr President. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428192831	First of all, I would like to mention that we in the Left share the authors of the motion for a resolution in favour of successful integration, and we want, as a starting point, to take action in areas which prevent or damage the integration of foreigners in this country. In our view, there are also many areas where we can take action. We in the Left propose, among other things. a strengthened integration programme with a reduced performance which increases as the ability to integrate into Danish society increases. We also share the view of the Danish People's Party on forced marriages. We have together made the 24-year rule, for which we were thanked, not only in the Danish population, but also in the wider immigrant communities. When it comes to this specific proposal, we are a little more doubtful. First of all, if it was based on the fact that the essential and most important thing here was to avoid the risk of congenital diseases and disabilities in the children of cousins and cousins, I myself have understood that the proven risk is twice as high, although still small, in the case of cousins, regardless of their links, in relation to children of non-family relatives. So if it is the disease that is the reasoning behind the proposal, then the ban should actually apply to all cousin marriages in general and therefore at all stages, whether it is the first, second, third or fourth. Secondly, I also have to say that I do not find such a quite well-placed publishing house for the control of the families and marital relationships of the citizens particularly crystallized, and in my ears it does not sound quite realistic to carry out this kind of monitoring. It will probably also be somewhat administratively cumbersome. So, unfortunately, against this background, I have to deal with Mr. Martin Henriksen concludes that we in the Left cannot support the resolution. I should like to say the same thing to the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193102	Sir. Martin Henriksen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193104	I would like to know if the Left does not think that it is a problem if we see for generations that cousins and cousins get married. If the Left considers this to be a problem but cannot support our proposal, how do you want to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193122	What I consider to be most problematic is if you can see that there have been forced marriages generation after generation. It is in this way, whether cousins or cousins, or other types of marriages between non-family relatives are involved. So what I think we should do is also like to take further action against forced marriages, because that must in fact be the essential thing, that is to say, to take action against such a more cultural part of what is contained in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193200	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193202	If a person in Denmark wishes to be brought together with a person from abroad because he or she has married the person, it is of course the case that the immigration authorities, if they find that this is a cousin marriage, have the possibility of rejecting family reunification on the grounds that it is a cousin marriage, because one can then fear that it is a situation in which one of the parties has been forced into it. I assume that the support of the Left is that it should be included in the legislation on foreigners. If the Left supports that it should be in foreign law, why on earth would the Left not support the idea of marrying someone who is already in Denmark, so to speak, coming into purely national law? That must surely be the logic of it: if you support it in relation to family reunification from outside, you must also be able to support it in relation to, indeed, I was just saying, internal family reunification, where both parties are already in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193253	No, because I think the essential thing here must be to take action against forced marriages. This can be done with information campaigns, and this can also be done in other ways in Danish legislation. That, in my view, is the key point. The central issue here, when it comes to social control, is not whether you are married to a cousin or a cousin, because in my view forced marriages can just as well take place between people who are not familyly related. I think that is the key point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193328	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Ole Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193335	Thank you, sir. President. Like the others who have spoken in the course of the debate, I should like to mention what is actually reflected in the proposal, namely that there are two factors underlying this proposal: firstly, there is a health concern; and secondly, there is a need for integration if we are to pick up a long story briefly. It can be said that both health considerations and the reasons for integration are basically sensible and some that we, as socialists, also support. In relation to the health consequences, the Minister has already mentioned here that there is of course an increased risk, but it is relatively limited when it is closely related parents. At the same time, as the Minister also mentioned, there may also be an increase in health risks in other forms. I think the minister mentioned this with women who were a little up in the years. We had this and I think the Minister also mentioned it with test tube fertilization. So we had a number of examples that were advanced in the debate of where a stronger health risk could arise. It has to be said in this context that if we, as a society, say that we attach a decisive importance to the health policy arguments in this case, but we can see some other cases that are completely identical, what is the argument that we should not start to take an interest in the other cases as well? For me, this is an argument which in fact means that it is a little difficult to attach any significant importance to the medical arguments. Then we come to the implications of integration. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who mentioned that there might be certain control problems, and that is a concern I would like to endorse. But I agree to this extent that it is important to ensure that people take on more and more the values associated with the Danish society, that is to say, with the individual's freedom to choose and decide their own life and body, determine what life they want to lead. In fact, I regard this at its core as a fundamental Western value, and we want people to take it in and that it will be a part not only of their practice and their everyday lives but also of the identity they have. It is a constant struggle, but I think that the struggle lies first and foremost in the minds of the people involved in it, in the way they perceive society, in the way they treat their children. I would like to fight that battle, and it is in fact, I would have liked to say, a cultural struggle. We can see some different lines where that battle is going in the right direction. If we look at the number of children you get, if we look at how, moreover, you start to adapt to the values of Danish society, then the big picture goes the right way on those fronts. I think that is a good thing, and there I think that if we draw with the broad brush that we have improved at in Denmark over the past 10-20 years, perhaps we have been more clear about what we ourselves think, what we expect and what we imagine, and tell us more clearly what we have basic attitudes and values. I think that is really the most important thing we can do in relation to this problem, which I recognise from a few may be a real problem, namely that there is. We must do something about this, we as a society must state clearly, and I think that is really the most important support we can give to those who are struggling to have the right to decide over their own lives and bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193704	Sir. Martin Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193707	Thank you. In other words, if the Folketing is to report clearly, it is an obvious opportunity to do so. I just want to say that. I would like to ask a few questions about what is actually the Socialist position, because this is a discussion that has been going on for many years. And the proposal by the Danish People's Party is, in fact, an attempt to see whether we cannot find a reasonably reasonable place to put the cut. But there are also Social Democrats elsewhere who have spoken out about this. I could, among other things. I would like to refer to an article from Berlingske's website on July 19, 2013, which says: "The proportion of bilingual pupils in Copenhagen's special schools for disabled people is significantly higher than in ordinary primary schools. Therefore, Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S) of the Copenhagen Citizen's Representation wants a ban on cousin-cousin marriages. ▪ He then says, and I quote from the article: "You know well, " • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • But it's a risk you take. And that is where I believe that we, as a society, must decide whether it is the rights of children or the age-old family traditions that are at the top. This is what he says in an attempt to call out the politicians at Christiansborg, but one has to understand that this cry has not come all the way to the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, because I understand that it completely refuses to make legislation in this area, not only in the first part, but also in the second part.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193822	Now Mr. Martin Henriksen the ancient family traditions. So let me be as clear as I can possibly be: old family traditions which in any way promote social control, arranged marriages or forced marriages, I think we should try to combat them in every way possible. My point in the rapporteur's speech was that it is, first of all, an attitude struggle, and I think that some of the things we learned in Denmark and that was where I painted with the slightly wider brush is that we have to say clearly what it is that is the fundamental values of this society. We must take a clear stand against these things. Does this mean that the problem will disappear for that reason? No, it certainly doesn't, and I think, sir. Martin Henriksen is right about this, as is the party member of me he quoted, that there are some who come with some old-fashioned and old-fashioned, I even think Mr. Martin Henriksen called it patterns of how to marry. We want to reverse them, and that is exactly my point: yes, the basic Western value, that one has the right to decide over one's own life, that one has the right to decide over one's own body, we want people to take in. We know that there are problems with it, and that is precisely because we know that there are problems with it, that the government has come up with its strategy in relation to precisely some of these areas, that is to say, with regard to honour-related conflicts, including the issue of social control. Then I must remember to say what I did not say the first time I had the floor, namely that this is of course also on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193947	Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428193949	Well, there's a lot of parties merging down here in the Assembly Hall. That's the way it is. I mean, this whole thing about Mr. Cole... Ole Hækkerup says that we have to fight it in every possible way, is fine, and that sounds great, but sir... Ole Hækkerup doesn't mean it. For Mr. Ole Hækkerup doesn't think you can use the law. So these are not all possible ways that the Socialists want to fight this. Recognizes Mr. Mr Ole Hækkerup (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. It is a conflict that is persistent in society. We can make some, but we can't reach everyone. Thinks sir. Ole Hækkerup himself says that anyone who comes here, who is in this country and who operates with some of these values and standards, will correct, because Mr. Ole Hækkerup tells you to straighten it out? I guess you're not that naive with the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428194055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428194057	I think the first step to getting along well at all in that fight is to state clearly what kind of attitudes you have. That's point one. Paragraph 2 is that we must, of course, have legislation appropriate to those positions, and we really do have that on a large number of points too, as Mr Vandemeulebroucke has said. Martin Henriksen is probably also awkwardly aware, in relation to this very thing with arranged marriages and forced marriages etc. Is that enough to solve the problem? No, it's not. Then you do a lot of other things, such as what the Minister also mentioned, about what we can do in relation to honour-related conflicts and what we can do in relation to social control. Excellent. Here we go, sir. Martin Henriksen with a proposal that says: can we not do more with regard to the legislative part? If you took Mr. Martin Henriksen's starting point is what I said in the rapporteur's speech, namely that this raises a number of health-care problems, so we have similar cases which give rise to the same health-care problems. The Minister mentioned it with women who were +40, and we also have the question of test tube fertilization, which I think the Minister also mentioned. I would just say that it will not be a tiny bit problematic if we go in and say: that is a problem exactly in that case, as Mr. Martin Henriksen says, but in other completely similar cases where we have the same problem, we say: that is not a problem? Yes, it does, and that is why we do not think there is any basis for adopting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428194211	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I would like to stress that questions and answers in the first place are one minute, in the second half of a minute and not the double that we have seen here. Ole Hækkerup Unless what you have is very wise). Even if what is being said is very wise. Then we go to the Socialist People's Party rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428194239	The proposers propose a ban on cousin-cousin marriages for generations in order to reduce the health risks of family growth and to strengthen the integration of these immigrant families, and such a practice is a cultural norm. In SF we acknowledge that there may be health and integration problems associated with chain-cousin marriages. The Danish Health Authority has shown evidence that cousin-cousin compounds lead to a statistically increased risk of stillbirth, infant death and congenital malformations, where there is a doubling of the risk compared to children whose parents are not related. However, this is a very small increase which, overall, corresponds to other situations where the mother, for example, is in the same situation. has diabetes, and in such situations it is considered perfectly acceptable to have a child. So if we are to ban cousin marriages with the argument that it is dangerous to health, we should also ban mothers with diabetes to have children, and I do not think anyone in this Chamber is interested in that. We actually believe that all citizens in Denmark have the right to enjoy the same basic rights, including the right to choose their own spouse. Nor should it be the responsibility of the state to decide who to marry and have children with. Rather, the state should help to ensure that the decision to enter into a cousin marriage is based on an informed choice so that they know what is of health risks. It is therefore necessary to look more closely at how health services can contribute to informing and preventing health problems. In relation to the integration issue, we agree that there may be a danger that cousin-cousin marriages may be an expression of social control and forced marriages. However, there are already initiatives which try to prevent this. In the government's national strategy, there are already targeted efforts that take up the fight against social control, to ensure that no one marries against their own will. At the same time, with these preventive measures, we are sending out a signal that forced marriages are totally unacceptable. We do not believe that a ban could strengthen integration or the fight against social control, but rather push new dancers further away from Danish society and Danish values. This will maintain some in the view that Danish society will restrict the rights of new Danish citizens, and it will also create a larger ones and us, which we will not go very far with in terms of integration. Furthermore, it will also be difficult to document who is cousin and cousin, so that the ban can easily be circumvented. The law will thus ultimately be of no use; it will only create a greater gap between new dancers and Danish society. For these reasons, we do not believe that the ban is a good solution, so the SF cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428194525	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428194539	The proposal here, as several have said, is to prohibit a cousin and cousin from marrying if the parent of one is also the child of cousin parents. That is what the proposers call chain cousin marriages. But this is not a general ban on cousin marriages, only if it is in a chain. As several speakers have said, this may be due to health-care problems associated with chain-cousin marriages and cousin marriages in general, of course, if marriage leads to having children, it is not marriage itself that is a health-care risk. That's if they have kids. However, this is only a relatively small increase in the health risks to the child, which, as several others have pointed out, will also be present in other situations, for example. if the child has been born by test tube fertilization. We believe in the Enhedslisten that care should be taken in general to start banning people from having children for certain health reasons. Such risks should always be dealt with by information and information, so that people make a well-considered choice. I think that is what the Danish People's Party really means. In fact, I do not think that the Danish People's Party is proposing that we should take a long look at whether you can have children if you have diabetes. I think the Danish People's Party believes that you can. As you know, the proposal is also about a ban on marriage and not about having children together, which, as you know, can be done even if you have not got married. There's nothing illegal about that either. And that's why it's a little hard to believe that it's the health arguments behind this proposal. In the comments, the authors also mention the concern that marriage or very strong social control may be an expression of forced marriage if there is a family in which marriages with cousins and cousins are concluded for several generations in succession. I think it is appropriate to have a discussion on forced marriages, when they arise, how we can prevent it, whether there are some particular characteristics and whether there is something we can do to spot it earlier. As you know, forced marriages are already banned, fortunately, and the work on social control is unfortunately not so easy that it can be fixed by a ban alone. I can reveal that there is also a general prohibition of coercion in the criminal code; it is illegal to use coercion, you must not force people to do things, nor to get married. Recently, the Enhedslisten called the Minister of Social Affairs in consultation precisely on social control, including forced marriages. We discussed a very long strategy that the government has and where they have taken initiatives against coercion and social control in family relations. Innumerable steps have been taken, among others. in the form of the creation of a hotline where there are more and more requests, which is a good thing, because more and more people are actually looking for help. And there is conflict mediation, there are crisis centres • there are some places missing, but we are also discussing this with the Minister. All these things are good, but more can be done. There are problems with violence, there are problems with psychological terror and threats, there are problems with very strict social control in some families, which are also sometimes rooted in certain cultural backgrounds. I think we should take this seriously. However, I do not believe that this proposal can do so if only it were so easy. And if it was really what the Danish People's Party wanted to achieve, then I don't understand why we are talking about chain-cousin marriages and not cousin marriages in general. So, in reality, I would have liked to have put forward a proposal which could contribute more to a constructive discussion on what we can do more than is already being done to prevent forced marriages and strict social control in our small country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428195008	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it's the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428195015	I shall immediately inform you that I am not the party's rapporteur on the matter, that is Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, and on his behalf I shall read his speech. The Danish People's Party proposes that cousin-cousin marriages should only be allowed if the married are not themselves children of cousin-cousin parents. In today's Denmark, in the absence of actual data, it must be assumed that the proposal concerns a rather small group of people. Now, however, the proposal has been brought up and we are therefore giving it a few words along the way. The Danish People's Party justifies the proposal with the need to soften up some of the cultural standards which in some cases characterise the integration of families with immigrant backgrounds. And while it is true that very few Danes today marry their cousins or cousins, there is no doubt that cousin-cousin marriages were in the past quite widespread, including in Western Europe. Charles Darwin and Albert Einstein were both married to their cousin, and if we look under domestic skies, it is widely known that for example. Heir Prince Knud was married to her cousin, Princess Caroline-Mathilde. In addition, if you are a little interested in genealogical research, most people and probably many in this assembly will find cousin-cousin marriages among their own ancestors. The Danish cultural standard is therefore of recent date, and the practice that can be observed in defined immigrant communities is thus not significantly different from that which a few generations back had had great and accepted distribution at home. It is true and well known that there is an increased risk of cousin-cousin parents giving birth to malformed children. It is estimated that the risk is twice as high when the parents are cousins and cousins than when the parents are not related. It may sound violent, but the vast majority of cousins will have healthy children. At the same time, it is worth noting that the risk of malformations due to cousin cousin co-life is significantly lower than the risk is in an unrelated relationship, if the mother has diabetes, or where fertilisation has been done by the test tube method. Nevertheless, we probably all consider pregnancy and childbirth to be perfectly acceptable choices in the examples mentioned. The Danish People's Party is considering how their proposals can be implemented in practice. The model doesn't look very clear. It is mentioned, among other things, that future husbands must sign a declaration of faith and law that they are not themselves the children of parents who are cousins, that the cpr register must include the possibility for the authorities to check whether the parents of married couples are cousins and that couples who want to marry must themselves document a lack of kinship with the authorities. In the ears of the Liberal Alliance, it sounds much like more monitoring, heavier bureaucracy and difficult controllable arrangements with problematic legal consequences. When we sum up, none of the arguments of the Danish People's Party are really convincing. In the Liberal Alliance, therefore, we cannot support the proposal. We would rather maintain the freedom that exists today and, moreover, aim to ensure that information and social security are the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428195325	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers and for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428195336	One senses the radical glow of the Liberal Alliance, at least a little bit; but, well, I have to say, it got what it could pull. However, I regret that there is no majority in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal, but nevertheless we in the Danish People's Party believe that cousin-cousin marriages should be banned for generations, so that cousin-cousin marriages should only be allowed in one stage. This means that a cousin's marriage should only be allowed if the married are not the children of cousin's parents themselves. The reason for the proposal is that there is an increased risk of cousin-cousin parents giving birth to malformed children, and that there is a need to soften some of the cultural standards which in some cases characterise the integration of families with an immigrant background in a negative way. The Danish People's Party recognises that there can also be arguments for a general ban, even in the first indent, but we do not want to hit the very few cases where cousin-cousin marriage is entered into once in a family. That is why the cut in the motion for a resolution has been added to the second indent. In addition, in cases where cousin-cousin marriages take place in generation after generation, there is also a need to break the negative spiral in which certain immigrant families and their children are maintained by some cultural standards and social control systems which, in the view of the Danish People's Party, are harmful to themselves and to the integration process. In the past, the Danish Health Service, through the Minister of Health, has stated in a reply to the Danish Parliament that it is considered to be indisputable that cousin-cousin compounds lead to a statistically increased risk of stillbirths, infant death, congenital malformations and probably also death before adulthood. As a rough rule of thumb, it can be deduced from the figures that overall there is a doubling of the risk in relation to children with unrelated parents. We in the Danish People's Party want to break the chain of cousin-cousin marriages that take place in generations after generations, among others. In view of the increased risk that the child will have a congenital illness or a disability, but also in view of what I have said in the rapporteur's speech and in some of the questions I have put to the various rapporteurs, we believe that it is therefore a lack of integration in Danish society when, in generation after generation, you marry as a cousin and a cousin. We find it very, very difficult to believe that in any case I actually find it difficult to believe that this is the case to a very large extent, that they marry voluntarily. We therefore believe that there is social pressure from the community and from the family, and in fact we believe that this proposal, if adopted, would be a helping hand for some of the people who are exposed to arranged marriages and forced marriages.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428195618	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428195633	The debate is open. First of all, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428195655	Thank you. I shall be brief, as I also heard the President say that we should do so. There is no reason to drag things further than that, but the proposal here is, in fact, important enough for those, although few, who have been affected by the situation, that their land has been completely or partially washed in the water as a result of coastal degradation. We saw, among other things. Back here not long ago, there was much damage around the country, and that is why it is reasonable, as I and the Left think, that the municipalities should be able to exempt a citizen from paying a ground debt if his land has disappeared as a result of precisely coastal degradation. So with the few, but modestly well-chosen words, the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428195739	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. In the absence of a Socialist rapporteur in the Chamber, I now give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Susanne Eilersen, and then the Socialist rapporteur can come on later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428195758	Thank you, sir. President. Well, on behalf of our rapporteur, who could not be here today, I am going to present this rapporteur's speech to the Danish People's Party. As stated in the Minister's submission, this proposal provides for the possibility for municipalities to exempt a property in whole or in part from the ground or parts of the land as a result of coastal degradation due, for example, to: Storm. Today it is the case that the landowner risks having to pay full ground for a land, i.e. up to approx. Two years after the site disappeared or significantly reduced as a result of coastal degradation. In the Danish People's Party we have never found it reasonable that landowners affected by coastal degradation should pay full ground debts for and up to 2 years after a change in the size of the land due to e.g. storm before there comes a re-evaluation of the site. We believe that if the land has been washed in the sea, it should be immediately removed from the land. It does not make sense that until today the landowner has to pay ground liability for a land which has been completely or partially washed in the sea. The proposal will have to work retroactively from 1 January 2015 - it just lacked it so that landowners in e.g. Nordjylland, which was hit by storms and land reduction at the beginning of the year, also has the opportunity to be exempted from paying land debts. However, the Danish People's Party believes that this proposal is only the least of all that the government can do for the affected landowners. We are astonished that this should only be one of the possibilities for the municipal council to exonerate these grounds from the ground. We believe that there should be an obvious exemption from land liability if, as was the case in North Jutland at Nørlev Strand, a reason has been washed into the sea, and that is why we will also table an amendment describing this request so that, as a matter of course, one is exempted from the ground for a total or partial collapse of the site. Although the reason may have only partially disappeared, we consider that the rest of the site has a miserable value, since it will also be in the sea during a coming storm, and we should therefore be freed from all blame immediately. The proposal, as the Danish People's Party sees it, is the very least that can be put forward at all by initiatives. We in the Danish People's Party are very disappointed that the Coast Directorate and the government, led by the Minister for the Environment, have repeatedly rejected the forms of coastal protection which the landowners around the country have been asking for for years and in some cases even offered to pay for themselves. Whether it has been a tough coast protection or whether it has been with Poul Jakobsen's drainage pipe solution to secure the coasts, the response from the Coastal Directorate and the Ministry has only been more sand-feeding. The sand-feeding solution is like peeing in your pants and only a very short solution. So you throw the money directly into the sea. The Danish People's Party would thus like to call on the government to tackle once again the problem of coastal protection and not to have a fear of harsh coastal protection off particularly affected residential areas or security with non-traditional means of action such as: Poul Jakobsen's pipe dam, which has been found to work in some places. However, the Coastal Directorate has unfortunately rejected the Dutch company BAM's offer to shore-ensure large parts of the west coast of Jutland with these. This has happened, despite the fact that the price will be only about half of what traditional security costs and that the company was allowed to keep an eye on the coast; one can only intervene if the coast moves back if dams do not work as intended, despite the fact that two independent experts back in 2008 have concluded that this security works. We in the Danish People's Party believe that we see time and time again that the Coast Directorate's own solutions certainly do not work. So in addition to this small handshake, which this proposal is an opportunity for an exemption from the ground debt, we in the Danish People's Party want to ensure our coasts better, so that we do not encounter as many reasons that plunge into the sea as we currently see. We hope that many other parties here in the Danish Parliament will be involved in looking at these matters as soon as possible, and as I have said, the Danish People's Party would like to have an amendment to this bill so that the landowners can be sure of being exempt from land liability, so that it is not only a municipal option to grant exemption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200243	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I would like to give the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200252	Thank you. With this proposal, we allow the municipalities to grant full or partial exemption from land liability if the land has disappeared or substantially reduced due to coastal degradation. Today landowners are in danger of having to pay full ground for up to 2 years after their properties are affected by coastal degradation. This is because there is a delay from the reduction in the basic value until it takes effect on the ground. With the proposal, we propose that, immediately after the coastal degradation, the municipal council can relieve the property of the ground. The decision of the municipal council will then apply until there is a new property assessment. From the Socialist point of view, it is only right that landowners should be released immediately if their cause has been affected by coastal degradation. There is something strange about the fact that one can lose a reason for the sea and then still pay the ground debt. Nor do we think it is fair to have to pay full ground for up to two years for a reason that no longer exists. The storm Egon, which raged back in January, caused several summer houses to slip down or hang over the edge, just as we know that there are several summer houses and lands in danger of crashing during coming storms. It is therefore quite right that we should now correct the legislation so that we can address the problem. The Socialists therefore support the bill and, unfortunately, since the rapporteur of the Radicals is unable to be here this evening, I have promised to announce on their behalf that the Radical Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200431	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Social Democrats and the Radicals. And then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200440	It is a good idea not to charge land for reasons that do not exist or hardly exist at all. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200449	Thank you. That's how short it can be done. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200500	They can pay to clean up their mess. No. No, we don't think so. We support the proposal. We think it's a good idea not to pay taxes for a reason you don't have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200512	Thank you for Enhedslisten's surprising announcement. Then it should have been mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, but in the absence of his presence, I shall now give the floor to Mr Olesen. Lars Barfoed for the Conservative People's Party. No, sir, come on. Ole Birk Olesen, if so, sir. Lars Barfoed allows? Here you go. It was a little fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200543	People are very fast today. But this is also an obvious right bill. It is so obvious that even the government can find a way of putting it forward, and it is not every day that it happens. However, I have a question for the Minister. The proposal says that municipalities can exempt citizens from paying land debts if their land has fallen into the sea. This, on the other hand, means that municipalities can continue to charge land for a reason that has fallen into the sea. I would like to hear, when the Minister comes up here, why the government believes that it should only be an opportunity for the municipalities to stop taxing land that no longer exists. Why should it not be a duty for the municipalities to stop taxing land that no longer exists? However, in the absence of better support, of course, we support the draft law, but we would like to know why it does not go further than it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200644	Thank you. And then it's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200700	It is, of course, a proposal that is almost self-evident. One might ask whether it is reasonable to pay taxes for a reason that does not exist. No, of course not. So it is time for this proposal to be put forward so that we can eliminate the injustice that lies in people paying taxes for reasons that are not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200728	Thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed and all the rapporteurs. Then it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior who can conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428200740	When I was in North Jutland in January and met with the mayors from Hjørring and Frederikshavn, they drew attention to this problem because they have had a number of citizens who have come into trouble in connection with the big storm of the autumn. You pointed out this issue here and, as several of the rapporteurs have said today, it seems unreasonable that the municipality should not be able to exempt citizens from paying land debts if their land has fallen completely or partially into the sea as a result of coastal degradation. That is why I thought that we should look at that immediately. I can tell from the discussion in this Chamber today that most people may think that it is still mysterious that this is the case. But that's until we pass this bill. There we are getting rid of this obvious absurdity that because there is a certain period between public assessments, one may have to pay full ground for a property for up to about 2 years after the property has disappeared completely or partially as a result of coastal debriefing. After all, it was my view, as was the view of the mayors and today of all parties, that it is still strange to have to pay the ground for a reason that does not exist. I am therefore very confident that, as they have themselves raised this issue, the municipalities will be able to manage it fully. I have visited the municipalities and seen for myself the challenges that a hard storm can bring, and I have talked to some of the citizens concerned. That is why I think what is important is that, when we see that there is an inappropriate legal framework, we move quickly into action and ensure that citizens receive more fair treatment. I welcome the fact that so many support, and for the sake of completeness I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that the Minister for the Environment has a major investigation under the auspices of the Coastal Directorate, which will allow us to discuss exactly the issues that have been raised today. I can say, although it is a little outside my area, now that it has been on those edges and heard a little about the issues, that it is of course very complex because all kinds of coastal protection have consequences. If you make tough coast protection somewhere, it seems to have consequences somewhere else, which is why you have to think very carefully. But there is a committee work in progress. To Ole Birk Olesen I should just like to say that, as I have said, it is the municipalities that have drawn attention to it. We are quite confident that they will manage the levels of freedom and treat their citizens properly. It's a municipal matter to discharge a ground debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428201029	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428201032	I think we can count on these municipalities to free themselves of the reasons when they have the opportunity to do so. That's what the expectation says. However, when the Minister says that it is up to the municipalities to levy a ground debt, I have to point out that the municipalities do so under legislation given by the Folketing. The Danish Parliament has allowed the municipalities to charge the citizens with a basic debt. And then what I don't quite understand is why the Folketing doesn't make the law, so that it says that the municipalities can no longer charge a ground debt if the land has crashed into the sea. Why should there be the possibility of levying a ground debt if the legislation could just as well say that this does not, of course, apply to land that has fallen into the sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428201119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428201120	This is because, in all its simplicity, this case has been raised by the municipalities because they wanted to be able to meet the citizens in this way, since our system of assessments and other things has been set up in such a way that they risk having to wait for up to two years. However, it is a question of total or partial exemption from land-use tax, and that is why we think it is right that it is a municipal assessment when it takes place. Because what matters is whether it is all or part of the reason that has disappeared. After all, it is a municipal procedure which determines when it is sufficient for an exemption to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428201153	Thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Municipal Committee. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428201215	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday, 30 April. First of all, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the questioners. Jacob Jensen, if he can separate himself from the Socialist rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428201247	It can be hard to break free. But thank you for that. I would just like to say, as a reason why we are putting the question here, that it is the case that working must always pay off. It gives itself somewhere, but unfortunately that is not the case today. Today, for certain groups, there is a direct loss by taking a job and being at work. Others have to find a job similar to a post such as a high school teacher or a lawyer if they just want 1,000 kroner. extra per month in relation to public support. And that's just a couple of examples. According to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, as many as 330,000 Danes today have a weak financial incentive to work. And even when the tax reform, which the government together with, among others, The Left has concluded here a year ago, is fully phased in by the year 2023, there will still be about a quarter of a million Danes for whom there is a weak economic incentive to work. Some 40,000 people get less than 1,000 kroner. extra to start the car, take the bike or take the train in the morning to fight their way to the workplace in all kinds of weather, while a group of almost 18,000 people directly lose money by working. In our view, this is contrary to common sense and we must have done something about it. As you know, in order to help this group and to increase the incentive to find a job at all, we have today called the government for this inquiry debate. We want to ensure that there will always be a financial gain by taking a job. We need to create the right framework so that we can move more people away from passive support and into the labour market, instead of keeping people on public support and in passivity. This is both economically sensible and humanly sensible. We hope for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428201444	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the questions he has asked. Now we have an answer and then the rapporteur for the questioners will have the floor again. And after he has spoken, you can make brief comments. Now it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428201503	I would like to thank the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance for the question which allows me to explain and deepen government policy in this area. After all, this is not the first time we have discussed whether the economic incentive to be in jobs rather than receiving public support is strong enough. Therefore, it should not come as a surprise that the government is concerned that it should pay to work. That is not only something we say, it is actually something we have done something about. After all, it is no secret that the possibility should arise, we are happy to continue in the path that we put in with the 2012 tax reform. Because, of course, it is important that there is an economic benefit from being in a job rather than being on public support. And that's too far for the vast majority of people today. As the tax reform is fully phased in, the economic incentive to be in employment is further strengthened. In particular, the tax reform strengthens the economic incentives to be in employment for people with relatively weak incentives today. This is because the reductions in tax reform are targeted at low and middle incomes. With the tax reform, the employment allowance is almost doubled and it is more than tripled for single parents. The subdued regulation of transfer incomes, which is part of the reform, also helps to strengthen the economic incentive. As an example of the positive effects of the reform, I can mention that the group with a so-called net compensation rate above 80%. will be significantly reduced from 336,000 people in 2011 to 249,000 people when the tax reform is fully phased in. Net rates of compensation have filled a great deal in the debate on economic incentives for employment, and this may sound a bit like an economist, but it is nevertheless a simple expression of how much disposable income you have as a transfer recipient represents of the disposable income you have if you are employed. Persons with a net level of compensation over e.g. 80% 90% or 90%. is usually said to have a relatively weak economic incentive to be in employment rather than receiving a transfer income. And these groups are the ones that get significantly smaller. I should not hide the fact that I think it is gratifying if we now strengthen the economic incentives, because the stronger the economic incentives for employment are, the more there will be in jobs, and therefore it is important that we constantly consider how to strengthen them. But things have to be balanced. Further strengthening of economic incentives must be done in a socially balanced way. We, as politicians, must also be careful not to get too one-sided a focus on economic incentives; a focus that, in my opinion, often characterizes the presentation of those who have raised the question today. Of course, economic incentives play an important role, but that is not the only thing that determines whether or not a person is in employment. Other relationships are also involved. On the TV paper here at 5:00 a.m. At 18.30 you could see one of the many Danes who have come to work lately while waiting to come down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where we have today welcomed new employment figures which show that it has now been 22 months in a row with employment in the private sector. And when the welder lifted the mask to speak to the TV newspaper, he said that you feel that you are contributing to society. That is certainly true because he felt that way at least, and in any case it is a good expression that it is not only financial incentives that make people want to take a job. This is the case, for example. the satisfaction of contributing actively in the labour market, the community of work colleagues and the importance of being able to support oneself and one's family. If, as politicians alone, we focus on the economic gain, we risk leaving the impression that it is okay to say no to a job if you think that the economic gain is too small. But it's not okay. We have arranged our society in a way where we have a high level of compensation, that where, in return, everyone has the right and obligation to support themselves, if they can, and that applies regardless of what they have the opportunity to obtain transfer income and other public services. That is why we have the obligation to provide benefits and cash benefits, and that is why the rules on availability must also be enforced effectively and consistently. If you can work, you have to be available for the labour market. This is a guiding principle in the whole way we have built the welfare society. It should also be borne in mind that even if a unemployed person only has a small financial gain from getting into a job here and now, getting a foot in the labour market can open up new opportunities. With a larger network in the labour market and more work experience in luggage, it will often be possible to get a new and better paid job, and in a new and better paid job the benefits of being in employment will, by their very nature, be higher. That is another reason why, in the debate, we should not legitimise the fact that we are not available for the labour market if we think that the economic benefit of taking a job is just too small. When it comes to forward-looking initiatives that can bring more people into work, a broader perspective can also be taken than that of today's question. The economic incentive to be in employment rather than to receive e.g. cash benefits or cash benefits are certainly a relevant piece. But it is only one piece among several that we can move on when it comes to the effort to raise the supply of labour and increase employment. In the coming years, we will see that employment is increasing as the series of reforms that have been implemented is fully phased in. This applies, in addition to the tax reform, among other things. reforms of retirement, early retirement, flexible jobs, the SU system and international recruitment. One of the major tasks I see for us in the coming years is therefore also to follow up on whether the many reforms that have already been implemented will also have the effect that we had expected and, if necessary, we will have to intervene and adjust if there are elements that do not seem to work as intended. Whether the ongoing work of following up the reforms qualifies as an initiative in itself can be discussed, but in any case the importance of following up on the initiatives we have launched should not be underestimated. The government has presented an ambitious reform agenda, on which we are continuously following up, and the work has not been done with the reforms that we have already implemented. That is why I think we should continue to look into and consider the possibilities for implementing new initiatives to increase employment. I would like to invite you to debate and dialogue on this. There is no reason to sit around and hold on to the good ideas. If you have new ideas that can contribute to an increase in employment, it is simply to put them open and freely forward for discussion, so that it can be seen whether you meet at least the demands we make. Our demand is that these are not proposals for their own sake. They must be concrete; we must be sure that they work as intended; and then they must be socially balanced and fully funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428202151	To the Minister. Any brief comments will have to wait until the Minister may speak at the end of the debate. That is why we are now going to go to the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is Mr Gundelach. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428202218	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Basically for the Left and in the DNA of the Left, you have to get a win when you make a bet. This, which some people regard as indifference, whether you get a prize or not, whether it matters whether you make an effort or not, is very difficult for us. We think it is important that you animate that you make an effort at all stages of life, and that you can then expect a carrot in the form of a gain when you have achieved a good result. This is also true of those in the labour market. It is important that we have as many people as possible on the labour market, it says just like itself, and I think everyone agrees on that, but it is also important that we have a framework and some systems that make it animate that efforts are also being made, make an effort to get the work that there is, move a little longer for it than might otherwise have been desired, etc. We can see that there is apparently a majority of Danes who agree with us if you are to believe the measurement that Jyllands-Posten brought here the other day. I think that is actually quite natural for the Danes to feel that way. There has to be a gain by making a difference. There is, of course, a saying that the work itself bears the salary, and that is what I heard the Minister say. I therefore agree with the Minister that it is not all about the economy. Of course, it is also a question of getting up in the morning and having something relevant to stand up for, getting to the workplace, having a social community both at the workplace, but perhaps also in leisure time. But the problem is that the proverb does not work enough in the real world. When you are looking for labour for a typical low-wage job, the situation is that you rarely get applicants, at least not Danish applicants. This applies to the food industry, to the hotel and catering industry, to a number of areas. When you search for labour in the low-wage areas, you rarely get very many, if any, Danish applicants. It is the case that one in five Danes of working age is on transfer income for various reasons. Barely 800,000 of working age are on transfer income. It costs society in the vicinity of 173 billion. kr. a year. And the paradox is also obvious. We currently have some 40,000 foreigners, typically from Eastern Europe, who are working in Denmark. For many, it is low-wage work, it is unskilled work, and at the same time we have just below the bottom, but close to the same figure, 40,000 Danes on cash benefits, for whom the only challenge is that they do not have a job. We think that is a paradox that should have been addressed. If you compare the situation in Denmark with, for example, Sweden, it is the case that in Denmark there are three and a half to support you on transfer income. In Sweden, the five-and-a-half working people share that burden. Of course, one might ask: is it attractive to take a job, move so far, go for the jobs that are? Fortunately, we have a well-functioning labour market. There is a good job rotation, replacement, flexibility etc. There are job openings, they are also present at the moment. More than 17,000 people actually pay to work. It is, of course, commendable, but is it fair? Is that fair? We don't think so. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, 330,000 have what is called a poor financial incentive to work and even after we have phased in the tax reform, which we are also facing together with the government, in 2023, there are still some 250 000 people left for whom there is little economic incentive to work. We think that we can do better, and unfortunately we have to note that, despite the tax reform, the government has made it more attractive to be outside the labour market, in the sense that the ceiling on cash benefits has been removed, the 225-hour rule has been removed, the entitlement to more holidays has been given to cash benefits, and the start-up aid has been removed. This has all meant that, for example, a family on cash benefits has received in the vicinity of 3,000 DKK. more a month. A refugee family has received an increase of about 10,000 kroner. a month. We in the Left want a job reform, a job reform that must make the difference between being on the labour market and outside the labour market greater. We want a ceiling to be set on the overall amount of public benefits, and then we want to lighten the tax on small labour income, simply to increase the benefit of working. We need more income for our common welfare society, and we point to this model as a way of getting more of the around 800,000 working age into the labour market, which is now outside the working community. Every time we move just one person on cash benefits into the labour market, it gives the economy a plus of DKK 175,000. in addition to the social gain that lies with the individual. We think we should have done something about this, and we hope that the debate here will reflect this, regardless of what an election result might look like, and that we can then work together and move forward in that direction. Against this background, on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that, according to the Ministry of Finance, in a reply to the Finance Committee on 27 November 2013, 17,700 people would be made available by being on public support than by working. The Danish Parliament also notes that, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs, there are still 250,000 Danes who have little financial incentive to work when the government's tax reform is fully phased in in in 2023. Parliament therefore calls on the government to take initiatives that will ensure that there is always an economic benefit by taking a job rather than being on public support. The Folketing also invites the government to look at the total benefit that a family can receive in public benefits, including considering the introduction of a cash benefits ceiling, as well as reintroducing the start-up benefit. • V 42).
ParlaMint-DK_20150428202849	Thank you. As I said, the read-out proposal for adoption will be put to the vote on Thursday. There are 12 Members who have asked for short comments, so for the sake of Members' sleep, I recommend that the speaking time be strictly observed. The first is Mrs Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428202911	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I note that it is generally concerned with the benefit of taking a job, but in the specific proposals it is about the ceiling on cash benefits. That is why my question to the rapporteur of the Left is whether the rapporteur can confirm that there are only 300 recipients of cash benefits for whom it will not be possible to take up a job at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428202940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428202941	I think that the questioner certainly has the number from somewhere, but I cannot confirm it because I do not know that figure. But I can only say that this is apparent from the figures presented to us by, among others, the figures. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, and this is also clear from the answer contained in the proposal for adoption, which refers to 17,700 Danes for whom it costs money to be at work. That is what we are dealing with, and that is what we think something needs to be done about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203013	Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203015	But will the rapporteur confirm that this group includes both Danes and Danes who, if they are not in employment, are on cash benefits, i.e. both groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203031	Yes, I can confirm that. But that does not change the view that if there are people who enter the labour market or who are in the labour market who cost money in relation to being outside the labour market, then we think we have a challenge in this country. However, I can confirm what the rapporteur says, namely that it consists of several groups, yes. But that does not change the view we have that there must always be an economic benefit by taking a job, regardless of what kind of benefit you are in or whether you are in the labour market. After all, it is commendable that some people are actually working, despite the fact that it costs them money. We just don't think that's fair; we want to give them a win.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203107	Thank you. Next question, sir. Jesper Petersen from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203112	Thank you. Both, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and also Mr. Jacob Jensen today says that it must always be worthwhile to work. That is why the Left wants to introduce a modern cash aid ceiling, as they call it. For how many of these more than 17,000 people without any profit from working will the Left's modern cash aid ceiling in isolation ensure that it pays off to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203146	Well, I think the rapporteur knows as well as I do. And that is why I would also like to say that we have not, of course, agreed to a hundred percent in the detail of the concrete model. We have pointed to a direction, to an amount that we think is too large, namely that, overall, if you are a couple of three children with cash benefits, I think that Mr. Jesper Petersen is well aware of the number ▪ can receive DKK 454,215. in the case of cash benefits, other social benefits, children's allowance, free place in kindergarten, etc. We think that amount is too high. On the other hand, we believe that tax relief should be granted to those in the low-wage group, in other words those who have low incomes, in order to give them a profit and thus encourage more people to come from public support to active employment. I had a dialogue the other day in this Chamber with the Minister for Finance. And there I asked how the Socialists and the government looked at their proposals for daily allowances, and there came the Minister of Finance with a phrase: I do not think we are getting any closer. We have set a direction, we have put forward some proposals on what we would like to do, and that is what we are aiming for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203259	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203301	Well, I can hear that Mr. Knox... Jacob Jensen either cannot or will not answer my question. So let me try like this: The primary part of this group we're talking about is actually almost all of them are benefit recipients. That's it, sir. Jacob Jensen won't say, but they're benefits recipients. Will a ceiling on cash benefits affect the beneficiary's incentive to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203330	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203331	In any case, it can be said that if you can get a total of DKK 450,000 in public services, we think it is too much. They call it a ceiling on cash benefits, but that includes, as Mr. Jesper Petersen also well what you get from benefits as a whole. I mention that it could be cash assistance, it could be child support, it could be housing security, it could be many things. We think, on the other hand, that this is what we are suggesting that we make too little of it when we are on the labour market, that is to say we have small incomes. That is why we are pointing to that direction: a ceiling on the overall amount received. On the other hand, tax relief is granted to those who are at work or who come to work. This is the direction in which we have pointed out that we would like to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203414	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203417	Thank you very much for a good and exciting debate. I think it's quite interesting. There have been a number of statements, including those made by Mrs Inger Løbberg, to the Politiken on 3 March: "There is a share of the cash benefits received and a share of the benefits received. No matter how many people this is about, I have the basic principle that we need to change the system so that working always pays off. I think it's quite interesting that she says it that way. I would like to hear from the rapporteur how the Left will ensure in concrete terms that it is always worth working for those entitled to benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203455	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203457	I can try to repeat it again. We have tried to look at the figures presented to us by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance. These are not the figures that the government is passing on. I hope not, because these are their own figures. This shows that today, before the tax reform was phased in, there are 330,000 people for whom it is defined that they have little financial incentive to work. Once we have phased in our common tax reform, there are 250 000 people for whom there is still little economic incentive to take a job. So it is in 2023, when we have phased in the tax reform, that it is a quarter of a million Danes. We think something needs to be done about this, and I hope that the Socialists will agree with me on that. We have then pointed to one model. It is certainly not the only model that can be used, but we just think it is the right direction. There must be a maximum amount of benefits available and the tax on small incomes must be lightened so that the difference is increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203557	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203558	So I'm just asking a very, very specific question: does this cash benefits ceiling also apply to benefits entitled yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203614	I think I will answer the same thing I have done in the past, namely that we haven't defined down to the last 25-øre. There's no more name, so the last 50-øre what this is supposed to look like. But we have pointed out the direction in which we would like to go. As I said, I had a discussion here the other day with the Minister for Finance about the daily allowance, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen asks, and there I asked whether the government had a proposal for a change in the daily allowance, or whether the Socialists had a proposal for a change in the daily allowance, and then the answer was that this could not be discussed. You didn't even have a proposal, you didn't even have a direction. No, you have a commission. We think in all modesty that, after all, we have pointed to a direction of what we would like to see. No, it's not defined a hundred percent in detail. We do not think it should be; of course, there must be room for discussion. But we have pointed to the direction and said that is what we want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203702	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Maja Panduro, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203706	But then I just have to get it right, sir. Jacob Jensen: Does the direction that benefit recipients may be covered by the Left Cash Aid Ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203717	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203719	[Audience outages]... in the sense that you also receive other benefits as a recipient of benefits. I think Mrs Maja Panduro is well aware of that too. What we call our modern ceiling on cash benefits includes what can be achieved in public services as a whole. There we think there should be a ceiling. We have not defined exactly where the ceiling should be, I think Mrs Panduro is well aware of that too. But we have defined the direction we would like to take for what, overall, is maximum. In the case of social security benefits, it is possible to reduce the tax for those who are on the low level of income from work. Then the difference is made bigger. That is the direction we want to take. We think that is fair and fair. This is also the case, apart from the ceiling we have done in relation to the tax reform we have jointly made: relaxed the tax burden on small incomes. We would like to do more about this, and we hope the Socialists will also be involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203809	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203811	I am also pleased with our tax reform. Forgive me for asking again, but just one more time for Prince Canute and for me: So the Left Cash Aid Ceiling also includes benefit recipients?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203826	This includes the fact that public services can be obtained in different contexts. This also includes obtaining children's cheques, obtaining housing security, obtaining various subsidies. What our proposal is about is what you can get in the maximum amount of benefits. That is what we mean by the proposal that is now before us, or by the examples that have been made, is too high. That is why we would like to set a ceiling for the maximum amount available in total public services. On the other hand, we would like to ease the tax burden on those who are working on small incomes. That's kind of the direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203900	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428203905	Indeed, it has been made very clear that the Left has said in this way that the benefit recipients are also covered by this. Even if you have taken out insurance, you run the risk that the Left will come and pull the blanket under you. I'll try to draw attention to it a little bit, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, leader of the Left, in connection with the presentation of this state-of-the-art cash-aid ceiling at the National Meeting of the Left in 2013 expressed the wish and I quote directly: It is about doing something as targeted as possible for those with the small labour income. And the key to this thinking is the employment allowance. I would like to know if we can get an answer as to whether the Left will spend more than 55 billion. kr. to ensure that working pays off. And does this mean that, despite assurances to the contrary, the policy of the Left cannot ensure that it is always worthwhile to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204001	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204003	The rapporteur will then have to forgive me if I do not reply precisely, because I am not quite sure that I understood the question, that is, the 55 billion. kr. As you know, we have not defined exactly how large the ceiling should be and how much tax relief it is for this part, where the sources of funding can be diverse. We have pointed to one source of funding here, and we have also pointed to other sources of funding which could help to create room for reducing taxes on small incomes and thus give a bigger carrot, a greater gain if someone is on the labour market and takes some of the low-wage jobs, the unskilled jobs, which unfortunately there are too many Danes who do not seek, despite the only challenge they actually have, is that they do not have a job. On the other hand, we can see that there are some 40,000 people here, typically Eastern Europeans, who are in Denmark and who are taking those jobs, and that is what we want to do differently, and that is the direction we have pointed out with the proposal we have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204103	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204108	We still need to get away from the concrete amount of money that the Left will spend in this area in order to ensure that it is still worthwhile to work. I don't know what's going on in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204119	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204120	Yes, but I can just shoot it back again and ask: what is it that the Socialists want in the field of unemployment benefits? We are being kissed for not having the last 50 cents in place, but on the other hand it is quite all right, I understand that the Socialists themselves do not even have a proposal and you do not even have a direction for what you want in the area of unemployment benefits. Because there's a commission. We point to what we want and we have also said that it is not down to the last detail, because there must of course be room for discussion with other parties. But we have pointed out what the Left would like and what direction we would like to take. That is more than one can say about social democracy when it comes to something similar.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204154	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204157	Thank you. I am fully in favour of not being able to tell you all the details, but do we agree that what the rapporteur says about the principle is that all benefits are covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, i.e. child benefit, cash benefits, but also cash benefits? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204219	No, that's not correct. It is true that these are the benefits that we have defined as cash benefits, children's benefits, child protection, that is, free space in day-care institutions, etc., subsidies of a different kind. That is what has been included, and that is the example we have taken and where we have been able to figure out from the Ministry of Employment. It is not a figure that I am making up that if you are a married couple who are both on cash benefits, and you have three children so that overall you can get DKK 454,215. This has nothing to do with the benefits, but it is something about cash benefits, child benefit, housing security and other similar subsidies. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204256	Sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204258	That is to say, if there are elements of unemployment benefit in a benefit, will it be covered by the maximum, i.e. this very modern cash benefits ceiling, which the Left is talking about? Because I don't think I heard a total rejection of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204318	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204321	It may be that I expressed myself unclearly, and I apologise for that, but there is a reason why we call it a ceiling on cash benefits, and I think that may be a very good answer to that. And you can also go in and look at the calculation that we have put forward very publicly and openly, and see what kind of services the Ministry of Employment has calculated in order to arrive at the amount that we have been marketing, which we think is too high. And I think so too, sir. Nadeem Farooq knows about. So that's what I can refer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204346	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204349	Sir. Jacob Jensen said that 40,000 Danes are on cash aid, and that goes without saying that there are 40,000 foreigners working in Denmark. I would like to know how, without the use of a planned economy, because we do not have it in Denmark, we will ensure that 40,000 foreigners are thrown home, and that 40,000 Danes on cash aid are admitted to the same jobs without attacking the other sacred rule that the Left has, namely that you should not touch the employer's right to direct and distribute the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204422	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204423	Yes, and then there is the third sacred rule, or whatever you might call it, which the Left is also in favour of, namely that the labour market, including labour, should be able to move across national borders, and I would stress that we need foreign labour, but in the Left we think it is a paradox. In Denmark, we are in a situation where there are well over 40,000 people. Christian Juhl is not allowed to hang me on the last number, but it is about 40,000 • from abroad, mainly Eastern Europe, who take jobs in Denmark, who are working in Denmark, typically the unskilled low-wage jobs, while we have roughly the bottom of the same number, 40,000, Danes on cash assistance, whose only challenge, although there may be many other challenges, is that they are not in work. We think that is a paradox. We are going to do something about that, and we have pointed out that, among other things, we are going to do something about it. I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204523	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204525	Yeah, but I didn't ask what the Left thinks are paradoxes. I asked how you guys are gonna make sure that the 2 times 40,000 change places. In practice, this cannot be done unless society is forced into the smallest detail. Either it is a populist comparison, which should suspicious aliens and Danes at one and the same time, or the Left must have some explanation of how to do it. It is not done by tax cuts or anything else, because it would have happened long ago because it is worth the 40,000 to take that job and they have a duty to do so. In this way, we cannot find additional tools that effectively force 40 000 people to move from unemployment to jobs and from jobs to Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204612	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204613	I'm not here to tell you this can be done with a fingertips either. Well, then, sir. Christian Juhl has misunderstood me because a finger-tip is not enough. I mentioned as an example of a low-wage hotel and restaurant industry, and you can also go out and ask a lot of people in the food sector, in agriculture, what applications they get when they look up jobs and who they are looking for. And so many of them say that it is not Danes who are looking for the jobs. That is just what we are considering, that is, how it can be that you are not looking for those jobs. Could it be because it was too attractive not to apply for the job? It must also be added that there are, of course, costs associated with it. You have to have transport costs, you have to get up in the morning and so on, and it is not always nice. That is why we are simply saying that if the economic gain got a little better, we also believe that there would be more Danes looking for those jobs, and so we believe that they would get some of the jobs that today go to Eastern Europeans, not least.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204711	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204714	I hope that the rapporteur of the Left will be able to help us a little, because I believe that the modern ceiling on cash aid is so post-modern that the confusion has spread in this Chamber. First, the rapporteur of the Left said that perhaps it was a slipper that the allowance could well be part of the modern ceiling on cash benefits, and then we were told that it couldn't anyway. Well, maybe that's what the heart is full of. But if we cannot find out exactly what this modern cash aid ceiling is going to look like, then maybe I can ask a few questions and then the rapporteur can say yes or no. Could the modern cash aid ceiling, for example? be the same ceiling on cash benefits as that under the VK government, which the Ministry of Finance has said will generate revenue of 80 million. kr. This will give an unskilled, low-paid worker 35 DKK. per year, i.e. Two cents an hour. Is that where we are, or does the Left think it should be much more ambitious than these two cents an hour?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204816	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204818	I think I can confirm that it must be more ambitious than two cents an hour. But that is not what matters. What matters is which way we should go. I know that the Socialist People's Party and others in this Chamber, I feel, exhibit it in this way, for example. speaks of 6 kroner. in the hour, which I think was also in the debate at a time when the Prime Minister had a discussion with my party chairman about whether it was very or little. I think it's making fun of people that they say: Well, just because you get a little bit more, it doesn't matter. I think it is. I think it's making fun of people that they say, "You're at work." It costs you money. I also think that it is a challenge for our economy, both economically and socially, that we are in a situation where so many people have little incentive to work. We want to do something about that, and that is why we have pointed to a direction that can be taken. How much we can get through depends, of course, on how the power ratio looks after a parliamentary election, because we have no feeling that we have a majority in favour of it today, but we hope, of course, that we can have it after an election. But the point is that we have set out our direction, and we hope there are other parties that can play a part in that. And then we can see how there can be agreement on the direction and size.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204925	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428204927	I am glad that the Left recognises that a little is also right, if it is 2,000 kroner, 20,000 kroner. Or whatever it is that's gonna take. In a reply to the Finance Committee, that is to question 213, it turns out that if you compare a low-paid and a cash benefit recipient and look at what they are entitled to from benefits there are a number of benefits to which you are entitled when you are low-paid, such as: Free zones, etc. more a year if you're in work. When the rapporteur of the Left says that less money should also be respected, does the rapporteur not recognise the answer to Question 213 that has come to the Committee on Finance? I don't think this is a small amount, I actually think it's a relatively large amount. It's like ten pairs of shoes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205022	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205024	Yeah, always. We always recognize the Ministry of Finance. But I have also noted that the SF I think it was SF's president here recently said that it was a good idea to lower the tax on small incomes. I hope that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen will confirm that this was the case. That is why I extend my hand, not least to the SF, but perhaps to the Socialists, because I am not sure that they are there for so much. But the SFs have seen the light somewhere, namely that it may be a good idea, both for the economy, but not least for the people who stand right on the edge, that you give them a win, that you give them a bigger carrot. Then I also think that you can animate that they just get to where the job is, even if it is a little far away, or perhaps it is not exactly the wish job you had hoped for. We believe that, and I also sense that it is roughly the same as SF imagines.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205111	Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205114	Sir. Jacob Jensen mentioned a figure of 17,700, and that figure is primarily made up of benefit recipients; to be precise, 17,300 of them are benefit recipients. I would like to know a little more about what the consequences of this so-called modern cash benefits ceiling are for these benefit recipients. Will that even affect their incentive to work? One might simply ask: will they even be affected by this ceiling of cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205146	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205148	Well, then, sir, he forgot. Thomas Jensen perhaps to say that some of the 17,700 are actually at work; they are also included in the figure. However, it does not make the principle, direction or our proposal any different from the fact that it is about looking at what one can get overall. We call it a ceiling on cash benefits, because that is what it is all about; it is about the other benefits that you can get us we have been around them until several times and to say at the same time: can we not get a little bit more profit from it? We have already done something about this together with our tax reform. Let us go further along that path by reducing the tax on small incomes. The Left would really like that, and I think others would like that too. I have heard the SF say it, and I also have the feeling that the Radical Left would like to; I believe they are talking about the top tax, but can they not be persuaded to start at the bottom? So if the Socialists too are involved, we can almost have a united Parliament that will go that way. Then we can discuss how much and how we do it, but I actually think I sense that we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205250	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205252	That's what I hear, sir. Jacob Jensen admits, of course, that the 17 700 do not receive any increased incentive to work, and that is why Mr. Jacob Jensen and the Left to cut down on unemployment benefits so that you can live up to this with that it has to pay you to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205309	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205311	Well, I can just turn it around. Mr Thomas Jensen. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Sir. Thomas Jensen refers to the fact that there is a number on the allowance, so what does Mr. Thomas Jensen? We have proposed something. We have proposed the direction that I have set out here up to several times. Yeah, it's not down to the last 50 cents, but it's a direction. But what does Mr. Thomas Jensen? What does Social Democracy mean? What does the government really think about the benefit area? Nothing. You don't even have a proposal. No, you have a commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205343	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205346	Thank you. After all, we have said on several occasions in this debate that the vast majority of people for whom it is not worthwhile to work are in receipt of unemployment benefits. This obviously has little to do with cash aid and, of course, not much to do with the Left's very unconcerned ceiling on cash aid. That is why I would like to hear: what is going to happen to the daily allowance? So where are we going with them? Should there be a ceiling on the daily allowance or what other benefits should be included in this ceiling, which we cannot then get an answer to what should be called? After all, the benefit recipients are the group for which it is not worthwhile to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205430	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205431	In other words, it is better for them to work if it is the case that the tax on labour income is reduced. Then there will be a gain by entering the labour market rather than being outside. It is one of these two legs that we are proposing: a ceiling on benefits and a lower tax on income. But I can ask the opposite of what the Radicals want in the area of unemployment benefits. There is not even a proposal there; there is just a Commission. We have not said that the reform to which we ourselves stand is chiseled in granite. But can you get a sense of what the Radicals or the government want? No, nothing just a commission. So I have to understand that the Radicals are trying to solve, among other things. This problem suggests higher housing tax and lower top tax. Enjoy, and enjoy obtaining a majority for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205518	Mrs. Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205520	But now it is the Left that has initiated this debate because you think it is a problem that it is not worthwhile to work. Then I say in all silence that those for whom it is not worthwhile to work are the benefit recipients. And there just comes the Left with nothing. So what I would like to get concrete answers to is what kind of benefits are to be taken from the benefit recipients so that they get a greater incentive to work. Is that child protection, is that housing security? What are some of the benefits that will then have to be capped in this context? It has nothing to do with the ceiling on cash benefits. The cash-aid ceiling doesn't solve anything for this group. That is why I have to hear: what are some benefits for benefit recipients to cap?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205558	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205559	As I said, our proposal goes on two legs: a ceiling on benefits, a lower tax on small incomes. That is what our proposal is about. It will also benefit people who are on unemployment benefits, people who are outside the labour market and who are today in a situation where there is no economic gain from entering the labour market. Then I will just have to refer in a quiet manner to the answers we have received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs and from the Ministry of Finance that there are 330 000 people today for whom there is little economic incentive to work. This does not even include transport costs. After our common tax reform has been phased in, there is a quarter of a million. That's not good enough. We need to move on that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205640	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205644	I'm having a little trouble understanding this. The Left has called for a debate because it must pay better to work. Left says there's 17,700 for whom it doesn't pay off. Then we say to information that 17,300 of them are on cash benefits. My question is this: is there anything in the Left's proposal that affects the 17,300 on daily allowances?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205708	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205711	If those people get into a low-wage job, if our proposal goes through, they will get tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205719	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205720	Can I have sir? Jacob Jensen to confirm that the tax relief for the 17,300 will be paid by the 300 in brackets noticed the zero left when our tax reform is fully phased in? It's a lot to put on those shoulders.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205738	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205739	I can confirm that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205743	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205746	This is really interesting. It has to be said that the Left's proposal means that the people in Denmark who are on unemployment benefits will be affected by the Left's ceiling on cash benefits, in that the benefits they can receive in the form of housing benefits or reduced payments to day care institutions will be reduced. That's one thing. The Left also has a proposal that tax relief should be made for those who are at the bottom. Could we not get an explanation or at least an indication of how much it is intended that one should, should we say quite ordinary HKs in Denmark, have tax relief per hour? That could be really interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205830	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205831	Yes, it could certainly be very interesting to hear, but as I have said a few times: we have pointed to this as a challenge; we have pointed to the direction we would like to go in. We have pointed out the direction of a ceiling on what can be obtained in benefits and that we would like to reduce the tax on small incomes. How much of what we can get through and to what extent depends, among other things. of how a majority is going to look after a parliamentary election, because I do not sense that we will get a majority in favour of it before a parliamentary election. Then I'd like to have that parliamentary election as soon as possible. But the point is that whether it is a little or a little more, we just think it is important that you get a gain when you enter the labour market. It is important that animated people who make the effort to enter the labour market and improve and make their best efforts should gain a profit. It's in our DNA that that's how it's supposed to be. It may well be that in the eyes of the Socialists it is not a gain and that it does not matter and that it is about everything but the economy. Well, fair enough, then we don't agree, but that's how the Left thinks it should be, and that's why we point to this as a challenge and also point to the direction. On the other hand, I would like to ask: what is it in the area of unemployment benefit which is, after all, the same as it is supposed to be? You mean something? No, but it doesn't mean anything on the part of the Social Democratic Party. Maybe you mean something deep down anyway, but you just don't want to say it. We do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205943	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428205945	That was an immensely long answer with no content whatsoever. Let me just say one more thing: the Left will cut the benefits of the benefit recipients. It's settled. And then the Left cannot say anything about what is being proposed for tax relief for those with the lowest wage. Then I ask what a HK is, because it is typically the low-paid in Denmark, so should have in tax relief. Nor can the Left say anything about that. That's quite a round of idle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210013	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210014	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen can mean what he wants. I would just point out that we have, however, pointed to a direction that we would like to take. At the same time, I can see that the Socialists want to move forward, but to what do they want to move forward? What are they going to do in the area of taxation? We don't know. What are they going to do in the area of unemployment benefit? You have to wait until after an election. There we think it is more fair that we say, however, before an election, that we can see a challenge here; we want to give priority to that, and that is in this direction we want to go. How far we can go in this direction, of course, depends on the electorate's judgement, but that is the direction we want to take. However, it is more than one can say about the Social Democrats who put it in a Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210050	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210057	Thank you. Now there's no reason to be so little irritated on the platform. After all, it is the Left itself that has called for this debate that it must be worthwhile to work. That is why I do not really think it is too much to ask for clear answers from the Left when we have called for the debate here today. I'm gonna keep going a little bit along that path. I can hear no clear answers, so let us use the method of exclusion: can the rapporteur of the Left guarantee that benefit recipients will not be affected by the decrease in transfer income in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210128	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210131	I do not know whether Mrs Trine Bramsen was here from the start of the debate. I hope she was, because if so, the answer will be given up to several times. I have no problem with calling for a debate because we can see that there is a challenge. I am also quite sure that this is something that is recognised in the Social Democratic Party if you would otherwise admit it. After all, we can see the figure we have received from the government, a huge figure which, fortunately, although modestly, is downward with the tax reform that the Left has helped to implement with the government. We understand that there are others in the government who want something quite different. I mean, the Radicals want top tax relief. We do not want to give that priority in the first place. We do not exclude it, but we will not prioritise it. We will prioritize the tax at the bottom because we can see that it makes the difference between being outside and being inside bigger. That is what we have been calling for. How much we can get through depends, among other things. of how the Folketing will be composed after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210223	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210226	It was, after all, because I did not think a clear answer was given that I allowed myself to ask again. That is why I would like to continue: can the rapporteur of the Left guarantee that benefit recipients are not covered by the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210239	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210242	Well, I think I can refer to what I answered Mr. Nadeem Farooq, I think, earlier when he asked very cleverly. There I can refer to the figures that we have received from the Ministry of Employment and the example that includes and shows what a married couple who are on cash benefits can receive overall when, as in that case, you have three children. There you can get a total of DKK 454,215. per year in public services. We think that is a little too much, and we would like to impose a ceiling on this in order to make it more economically attractive for the cash benefits couple to enter the labour market. That is the direction we have set out, and that is why we have initiated the debate here to see whether there are some other parties that may also have some proposals or a direction or something that could reduce this challenge. The Social Democrats have not done so. No, you have a commission. We don't think that's good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210331	Sir. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210333	I therefore think, on the basis of the fact that it is the Left that has invited us to the debate here, that it is some very, very foggy answers that we are getting from the Left. I have found that the Left is currently putting in large advertisements. I have also noted that the Left's tax rapporteur has been out to say that, in good time before the forthcoming elections, we will be presenting our thoughts on what is actually going to be included in the modern cash aid ceiling. Now we have been called into question by the benefits. We may also have been called into question by the early retirement benefits. Are they included as well? Could Mr. Jacob Jensen is not realising it just a little bit for the many people who, in this situation, must feel insecure about what the Left wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210424	You can put it up in a lot of ways. One might also say that we are pointing out the direction in which we would like to go. We could also have refrained from suggesting anything and said: No, we mean nothing, we simply will not say anything at all until after a choice. And then we could come as a thief at night and bum, bum, do something. That's not how we work in the Left. We'd like to challenge what's in place. We would like to say: here we have a challenge. We can see it from the numbers that have been presented. We can also hear it when we talk to people around us who need people in the low-wage area. On the other hand, we can ask whether it gives more security to do as the Socialists do, namely to say that you have no proposals; no, you have a Commission. When will that Commission come up with any proposals? It has to do so only after a parliamentary election. That is where we think it is more reasonable that we should say what we would like to do before the parliamentary elections come, so the Danes have something to decide on. However, the uncertainty which the Socialists are experiencing is somewhat worse, if I may be so free.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210518	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210521	I have to say that the very many whom the Left has now made nervous and afraid of their livelihoods are the groups which are already having a real difficulty in our labour market. These are the groups that lost jobs in the decade of irresponsibility when industrial jobs came out of our country. These are the groups that are currently entering the labour market. Now they are getting a cold shoulder of the Left, because they are being called into question by the security-building factors that will enable them to build a proper life on our labour market. Is it fair to the voters who are going to vote that the tasks have been clearly placed on the weakest shoulders in this context? Is it not fairer to give them a proper chance to enter the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210610	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210614	Whether it is fair or not fair, I leave it to the Danes to decide on the day the Prime Minister pulls himself together to press the election button. At any rate, I can see that in the measurement referred to in the Jyllands-Posten this weekend, if it is true that we are now reading not so many polls in the Left, which the Socialists probably do not do either, there was a significant majority of the Danes who agreed with the Left that it would be sensible to set a ceiling on the overall amount of public service, and on the other hand to ease the tax and, as Mr. Orla Hav points out, making it more attractive to enter the labour market, giving them a better chance of entering the labour market. We think that is fair, that is the direction we have set out. We also hope that the Socialists will be involved in this, even if you go and put your own proposals for after elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210655	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. There are no more questioners in this round. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428210707	In Denmark, it must be the case that you get a gain by working, and with government policy, Danes in work get more money between their hands. An ordinary family of a metal worker and a nurse with two children gets our policy DKK 5,300. more a year out of work. The cassedamen with a child gets 8,300 kr. more a year to himself. And when our tax reform is fully phased in, there won't be a single cash aid recipient who doesn't have a gain in getting to work. We have given priority to people with ordinary incomes when we have been able to provide tax relief. We have given priority to increasing the employment allowance, especially for single parents, and we have given targeted tax relief by increasing the deduction for professional quotas. It has actually been a fight against the Left that did not want these things, but the result speaks for itself. Today it is better to work than it could, while Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister. So we have succeeded in making it more attractive to work and at the same time to bring children out of regular poverty by abolishing the poverty benefits of the Left. It is an achievement we can be proud of, we think. We also say clearly that if you can work at all, you have to work and you have a duty to be available for the labour market if you want to have the right to receive public services. We have followed a policy accordingly. But it must of course also be the case in Denmark that if you become unemployed, you should be able to count on security for yourself and your family. This is how it should be in the Denmark we know. The Left wants another way: You attack the social safety net, and which way it is so concrete, the Left does not dare to tell the Danes exactly about until there are choices to be made. We have tried to count on it a little, and the media have written about the so-called modern cash benefits ceiling of the Left 2 070 times! So the 2.070 times is also the number of times that the Left has failed to give a concrete answer to what the modern ceiling on cash benefits should actually contain. It's quite a feat anyway. I have really had great expectations of today, because when the Left itself chose to call today's debate... it should actually have been an urgent request in the opinion of the Left... I would of course have expected that now it was that the Left would reply honestly and fairly to what a modern cash aid ceiling should actually contain, how the Left would give tax cuts and where the money would come from. But in reality we have not received an answer. We have listened to more machinations from the Left and, on the other hand, have brought some new interesting concepts into the debate. After today, is there a proposal from the Left for an allowance ceiling? Following today's debate, is there a proposal from the Left for an early retirement ceiling, which includes public benefits, including in these areas, and will a ceiling be set? In fact, that's what you have to deduce from Mr. Jacob Jensen's appearance on the platform earlier. I do not know whether it is legal in such question debates simply to throw the towel in the ring and say that it was not what you wanted, and then like to stop the debate here if you are summoned. But at least I think it is amazingly poor and ill-prepared, and we did not get any answers at all from Mr Beazley. Jacob Jensen a moment ago. We have heard that the modern ceiling on cash benefits can ensure that working is always worthwhile. That must be quite an exaggeration. If you look at the Left's draft Finance Bill, you can see that the Left with its ceiling together provides a tax relief of 15 cents per hour. With all due respect, it does not do much to or from the incentives of the benefit recipients to take a job, and therefore it may also introduce a ceiling on daily allowances and benefits in relation to it. Why is it that the Left refuses to present its cash aid ceiling? This may be because the Left has simply made too much bread. For the modern cash aid ceiling may be the biggest bluff of contemporary Danish politics. It cannot ensure that working here and now can pay forever and for everyone. It cannot ensure that the tax can be significantly lightened at the bottom. This, on the other hand, will ensure that we once again move towards more children growing up in poverty. In fact, the wish of the Left may not be so much that it must pay to work, but that it must be a greater problem to become unemployed. Because when you attack the social safety net, as the Left does, as the years go by, there is also greater pressure on wages, and that is precisely why the Left may not give concrete shape to its modern ceiling on cash aid. The truth is that if you want to honour your promise that it must always pay to work, then the party must again cut the daily allowance because it is almost exclusively entitled to benefit, as well as to note for the vast majority of people in jobs that are currently part of the group that does not have an immediate benefit from working. Then you have to secure it, you have to do as the Left's friends in the CEPOS say. Then the daily allowance should be reduced by about 10%. As a Social Democrat, I can clearly say that this is not a road we want to take, on the contrary. We want an unemployment benefit system where fewer than today fall out and security is greater, where we ensure that more people get to work at a decent wage and where we focus any tax cuts on those who have the lowest wages. For us, the answer is never one-sidedly hollowing out the social safety net. That is not the way for the Denmark we know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211238	There are a number of questioners. The first is sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211244	Sir. Jesper Petersen, like many others on the left, when we take this discussion, refers to the rules of availability. It is always the rules of availability that must miraculously get people into work, although any person in that country knows that it is easy to be available for the labour market without being able to be employed by an employer. It just takes you to get to the job interviews you're ordered to get to, and sit down with crossed arms and say that you're really only there because you've been told to do so by your job consultant. Then you do not get a job, but you are available for the labour market. So the rules of availability can't be used for that much. - Sir... Jesper Petersen confirms that Danmarks Statistik has asked questions about unemployed people in Denmark in a labour survey and that 30%. In the last four weeks or in the last four weeks, are they willing to join? A third of the jobs can't answer yes to the three questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211350	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211352	I don't quite know where sir. Ole Birk Olesen wants to go with the question. For first, the rules of availability are irrelevant, and then you start to problematize that when they really have to be measured and kept up against something, there are some who do not respond in a certain way in some individual boxes. If you on the Left and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's side thinks that there are mayors in this country, and this is especially true of the Left, who have many of those who do not enforce the rules of availability properly, so you have to tell them to do their job, because of course the rules of availability must be enforced. You have to be available if you want to have the right to public services. But I actually think it's a bit of a provocation that about the very many Danes we might all know a copy or two were fired while the bourgeois in this country last had the power, and now are on cash aid, and who would like to have a job and actually also have an economic incentive to do so, say that they don't really want to be available. It is even claimed to the Danes that people can simply withdraw cash aid without any consequences. And that's not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211457	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211458	It is so sad that this debate cannot be conducted at an objective level and must always be dumbed by Mr Beazley. Jesper Petersen and other red people. I never said that all unemployed people do not want to work. I have pointed out that a third of people are not available for a job and I have told them that, although they are not available for a job, they may look as if they are available for a job. Because they just have to show up for the job interviews that their job consultant requires them to show up for, but there they don't have to look to the employer like someone who really wants to work. Yet they may still appear to be available for the labour market. But discussing on a factual basis, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211543	This is actually the attempt we have made over the last hour with Mr. Simpson. Jacob Jensen, that is to say, trying to have a factual discussion on this issue. Because we say that working in Denmark must be worthwhile, and that is the way it is going, because of the policy that the government is pursuing, but that it must also be the case that you have to be able to manage if you lose your job. We are also thinking of people who are so unlucky to lose their jobs. But I think it's very nice that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is attacking this debate in such a way that he will not discuss the economic incentive at all, because he obviously agrees with us that it is going the right way and that for the ordinary cash aid recipient in Denmark there is even a strong economic incentive to get to work. - Sir, it's bothering me. Ole Birk Olesen not to argue at all. Apparently, we've come that far. It is the rules of availability and whether their enforcement is okay that is being problematized. We'd like to talk about that. Of course, they must be properly enforced, and we can then allow that to be included in the discussions and political work of this House, including to the mayors of the Left who are very critical of this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211643	Sir. Jacob Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211648	I'll try to be a little constructive. Perhaps I overheard these remarks, which Mr. Jesper Petersen came along, so I just wanted to ask one question: does Mr. Jesper Petersen, that the level we now have, that is, today, when there is little economic incentive for 330,000 people, is reasonable? Even after some years from the start of our common tax reform, there are 250 000 people for whom there is little economic incentive to work. Mr. Jesper Petersen, that's fair, and what does Mr. Jesper Petersen do? I know, sir. Jesper Petersen wants to move on, but could he say a little bit about what he wants to continue with in this context? Does he have any suggestions other than criticising us for pointing in one direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211728	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211732	We've been trying to get sir. Jacob Jensen and the Left to answer what this modern cash aid ceiling is all about. Because that is what we want to discuss, that is what we need to talk about in concrete terms. But the Left simply cannot do so. We have introduced a tax reform in which what the Left wanted was to lighten the tax more for the wealthy, not for the low-paid, and it means, along with several other things we have done, that the incentive to get to work increases and is better now than it was when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister. And every year, on 1 January up to 2022, the employment allowance will grow a little more as a result of the tax reform we have agreed. So it will go in that direction for every year, and it will be the case that once all the reforms already agreed have been implemented, there are in fact no longer any cash aid recipients who have no financial gain on these approx. A thousand kroner. a month by getting to work. So we're back on the question that it's the cash benefits, sir. Jacob Jensen and the Left must change and cut if this is really to move forward, and it has been an interesting thing to bring forward in today's debate. That's fine, the Left admits it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211846	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211850	Stop the scaremongering! I communicated it precisely: we do not, of course, cut the daily allowance, which is why we call it the cash benefits ceiling. If you thought about it a little and perhaps also listened, I think you could reason on it. But I didn't hear any suggestions from Mr. Jesper Petersen's side. There wasn't one, except you want to move on, and what do you want to do? Yes, you have a commission in the field of unemployment benefits, but you will not really say what you think. I ask quite quietly and specifically: what do the Socialists want to do if something is to happen in this direction at all, in addition to what we, among other things, want to do. together have already done? I mean, it's like you've got... On the other hand, the Social Democrats have reduced opportunities. We have removed the 225-hour rule, the ceiling on cash benefits, etc., but what is it that we are going to do instead? Nothing you want to go on. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it, or could mr. Jesper Petersen makes just one suggestion as to what he would like to see done, so that we can move forward in the direction that, after all, we all started out here a year ago in the field of taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211946	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428211949	Well, we're moving on. Every year, on 1 January, the employment allowance is slightly higher. I know that the Left would have preferred us to discuss tax reform. I brought some articles back then. What the Left wanted was not to increase the employment allowance in the way we wanted, but that it was the highest-paid people in Denmark who would have more tax relief and that business would have more tax relief than what was included in the tax reform. So it would be quite contrary to what the Left says in this Chamber tonight and beyond that, Mr President. Jacob Jensen just said in this question. For my sake, one must come to the conclusion that we can provide more relief in the tax for low-paid people, but I just do not have the money with me, and that is why I will not stand by and promise it. On the other hand, we also have the fact that we can afford a growth in the public sector at this 0.6%. kr. more for our common welfare than the Left has, while making these improvements to the employment allowance, and that is a good and balanced social policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212046	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212051	Thank you. Now it is a question debate, but there is not really much debate; it is running something back and forth, I think. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur, in order to get the point straight, is: does the rapporteur not agree with this, and the Social Democrats must also be that we have a political challenge in relation to the system we have built up when these people who have a job, get up early, go out to work, take care of things, come home in the evening when their children have come home from school, etc. etc., and can see that they have very, very little in plus by being in employment with the job they have. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212132	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212134	I think it should be worthwhile to work in Denmark, and I sincerely believe that it is a good thing when, at the end of the month after doing the dont which Mr. René Christensen correctly describes, can see it on his paycheck, so he can feel it on his economy. I think that is a right and good principle, and I am pleased to say that this government is making sure that things are moving more and more in this direction. But I am also glad that this does not happen in the way that the Left is proposing and which Mr. René Christensen's party, the Danish People's Party, voted before the last elections, where a number of particularly low benefits were introduced that made more children grow up in poverty in Denmark. For what is the risk to the family, as Mr. René Christensen describes that some of them may also lose their jobs. Just take the time around the financial crisis, where there were 100,000 Danes who lost their jobs in the private sector, while Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister. Unfortunately, there are a number of those who have not yet come back to work. And as much as I think they should have a financial gain when they work hard, I also think they should be able to manage and support their children when they have been so unlucky to lose their jobs and have not yet got back into the labour market. That balance must be there, and precisely because we do not want to hit the children in those families, we are not in favour of all sorts of unilateral cuts in public services, but would like to lighten the tax at the bottom and we have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212252	Before I came up here, I noticed that the previous President asked for the rules on speaking time to be observed, because there are so many people asking all the time, and I would ask once again that this be done. Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212303	I'll try that. That's right. But then there are two challenges. There is the challenge in relation to the one who is in the job and then there is the challenge in relation to the one who is on passive support. Does the rapporteur not agree with this and we fully acknowledge this in the Danish People's Party that it is not all on cash benefits that become millionaires of it? If you take the benefit of a single person on cash benefits, you can see, I would say, that no one is getting very rich from it; it is difficult to get the ends to reach together. But we also have examples of • especially if you have many children and are given free space and other things • that you have revenue that is large and that the private labour market may find it difficult to compete with. And at least we have a challenge. That is actually what the debate was supposed to be about today. At least that's how we read it. Although we have not been involved in the question, we really think that it would be a healthy debate to have today. Unfortunately, we can see that a great many people are in a situation where they are not self-supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212354	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212356	Yeah, I agree. This is an important, exciting and relevant discussion. Even for the family that the Left has highlighted, there is a prize of more than DKK 1,000. a month, if you get to work. And it's good and right that it's like that. The group that has been mentioned, of just over 17 000 people, who are in a situation where they do not get any benefit from being in work, consists almost entirely of benefit recipients and not of cash benefits recipients. But these are the ones that the Left is setting to hit, and those that Mr. René Christensen and his party have previously helped to hit. But it doesn't matter if these benefit recipients have an incentive to work. So with the excuse that you are very concerned about something with the recipients of social assistance, you are warming up just as slowly to a general attack on the social safety net. Well, now the President gets up, so I'm gonna stop. But I don't think it made sense what Mr. René Christensen said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212457	Let me say, then, that it is fine for the rapporteur to stop, but I would also like to ask that we stop in the Chamber. You talk pretty loud. Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212513	Thank you. After all, we were waiting a little bit for what the Social Democrats really think about this, about how it should pay to work and whether it is something that we want to do something about. You almost had to understand that, sir. Jesper Petersen thought that more than enough had been done in that direction. In any case, there was no suggestion from the Social Democratic Party about what needs to be done. But I took note, and I am actually happy to say that Mr. Jesper Petersen spoke very warmly for tax cuts and actually made it the property of the Social Democratic Party that tax cuts had been created ■ our tax reform, and we are the reason why something is happening now when it comes to the employment allowance. Then it's just that I remember back to the VK government. There was always the Socialist motto: you have to choose between tax relief or welfare, you cannot have both. The Social Democratic Party was against tax cuts, so I would like to ask Mr. Jesper Petersen: Is it not true that the Social Democrats did not vote for tax cuts? It was only because we were some who kept working year after year for tax cuts in this society, so it would be better to work, that the Social Democrats finally agreed to it, so there was an agreement on tax cuts. For that is not really the policy of social democracy at all. Social democracy wants equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212635	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212637	In fact, I cannot confirm that at all. To be able to lighten the tax burden on ordinary workers and ensure that low-paid Danes have a little more out of their work is social democratic policy, and it is also put forward before the elections that such tax reform would be desirable. That's it. So I just think that Mr. Lars Barfoed has to put that flybone through. The government here went to the polls for low-paid Danes to have a tax relief, and it has been implemented. I also think that afterwards I should use the printer, who is right out here in the side room, to give Mr. Lars Barfoed a copy of my speech, because it was very precise about how we want to ensure a proper social safety net and therefore not participate in cuts in cash benefits and daily allowances etc., and what else comes out of proposals from the right side of the Folketing. But that's exactly what Mr. Lars Barfoed then recalled during his question: We are very pleased that we have been able to make a tax reform where low-paid Danes get the lion's share of the relief that has been achieved. At the same time, we have a discussion about zero growth or not, where we actually demonstrate here that we can ensure that low-paid Danes have a little more out of their work effort and that there is money to make improvements for selected welfare areas. Mr. Lars Barfoed's party fought all the way through to pressure us to make more tax cuts for the most wealthy, not at the bottom. It's the same as the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212802	Lars Barfoed, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212805	Indeed, we are in favour of, and are still in favour of, both tax cuts at one end of the tax scale and at the other end of the tax scale. Indeed, we in the Conservative People's Party would like to have a society where it is even better for everyone to work than it is today. That also means, of course, that there will be some differences. In other words, you cannot have a society where it is better to work and then have a society where there is more equality, but it ends up with a society that becomes more rich, so that it also becomes a better society for those who have the least. So, I'd like to ask Mr. Knox. Jesper Petersen one question. So he has now confessed that he and the Social Democrats want tax cuts, even though we in the Conservative People's Party have always been mocked by the Social Democrats for it. We are told that we are always talking about tax cuts, and now it has also become the policy of social democracy. Does the Social Democratic Party favour more tax cuts, or does the Social Democratic Party think that right now it is stopping tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212900	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428212903	I am aware that the Conservative People's Party wants tax cuts all around, that is what I think the wording was, and this also means that it is not possible to deliver the prosperity of selected welfare services, health, for example, to which the government has been able to allocate money. This is, after all, a debate about zero growth, whether or not we give priority to welfare. At the same time, we have been able to implement a tax reform that facilitates the taxation of primarily low-paid employees. And it will continue every year on 1 January, so it is also forward-looking. Yeah, I think it's good. When you can make a tax reform that has good, sensible funding, that is a good thing, and it is not a new break, as Mr. Lars Barfoed is actually trying to draw it up to be. Sir. Lars Barfoed has been here longer than me, but he must remember badly, because being able to benefit ordinary employees in this way also knows that you have to pay less in tax if otherwise it is financed properly and you give priority to the low-paid, is not as new as Mr. Lars Barfoed is trying to make it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213000	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213008	Now Mr. Jesper Petersen, that he would really like to be involved in raising the employment allowance if there was any funding. There, of course, we have some funding from the SF, namely the financial tax. Could this not be a good way to redistribute and say: we would actually like to increase the employment allowance? On the part of the SF, we will not do so by undermining the benefits; we will do so by taking away from some of those who make the most money in this country and who have had the greatest responsibility for the crisis. Then it could not be a way to get around it by saying: we want to let people keep a little more of their own wage income, but we do not want to do it on the left by hollowing out cash benefits or cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213051	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213054	I am familiar with the fact that there is no financial tax and therefore no revenue to be used for tax relief. I mean, we don't want to help ease the tax, even if it's for the low-paid until we have the money to do it for. And the money Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is talking about does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213117	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213120	We will not spend the money until they are there either, but the money will only come into the box if we are enough countries that are united in getting such a financial tax. And now Angela Merkel is visiting today and is a very nice visit and also a great cadeau to our Prime Minister and she said at a debate event at the University of Copenhagen that she hoped that the voters would send the signal to our Prime Minister that we in Denmark should support a financial tax, as Germany does. After all, it is from a head of state who is the Conservative and leader of Europe's largest economy. She said: I hope the voters will send that signal to the Prime Minister of Denmark. So could it not be a way of saying that we would actually like to give even more to the employees, especially the low-paid ones, and that it should be taken away from those who have helped to exacerbate the crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213208	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213211	In fact, when it comes to the banks, we have increased, for example, several times. the payroll tax in the context of the tax reform and used that money to make tax cuts, primarily for the low-paid. It is a decision that we can make even in Denmark. We have done so, just as the banks did not share in the easing of corporate tax that has since been implemented with the first growth package. These were concrete proposals that we had to work on. But that money does not exist, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is talking about. And I think it's nice to stand up at a time when we are also very close to a choice and give the voters the impression that you have money to make light the tax for 3,000 kroner when that money actually doesn't exist. Should they come someday, we'll have to talk about it... it might also be, they should be used for better welfare... but it's not money that's there. So let us take it when the money is there; until then it is a little a parade proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213300	Thank you. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213304	It is only very brief that I should like to ask the rapporteur. Because I was somewhat influenced by the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur when he asked questions before and, like, suggested that those who are now on cash assistance or transfer or on cash benefits are to blame for everything and that they are not looking for the jobs that are, etc. Can we not just confirm that the employment system in force until 1 January was one that was created by Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen and Mrs Inger Løjberg in a Left Government, and that it was not at all focused on getting people into jobs, but simply focused on chasing those who were on transfer or on cash benefits; whereas we have now created a system from 1 January which focuses on both getting people into jobs, but also creating some more jobs, so that there is actually a real possibility that you can get out to do something if you have the • what to say the prerequisites that need to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213401	It may seem a little strange to have such a debate between party colleagues, but I can completely confirm that, Mr President. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen says, that is to say, that there will be more people in employment, also as a result of government policy, but also that the employment system has changed and focuses more on training rather than activation. If this is to become a kind of factual contribution to the discussion, and not just a clap on our backs, then I think it is really not very good to look at the fact that people on the bourgeois side are being reproached at people who are on cash aid and who, for many, have quite a few competences and who are in competition with some from other countries who have more education than they are. Instead of saying that it is about giving these people in Denmark who are unemployed, more chances on the labour market, giving them some more education, one suggests that they really do not want to work. I don't think it's pretty to watch.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213447	It is a little bit on the edge of asking, let me just say, a little lead questions to your own rapporteur. Thank you, and that's the end of this round, and then it's Mr. Knox. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213507	Thank you. Yeah, it's an interesting debate, and we're getting a long way around it. The Danish People's Party has been looking forward to the debate here, because we actually think you have a rather big challenge. We have a big challenge. We can also see that when we look at the figures of the Ministry of Economic Affairs... we know that we actually have 330,000 people who have little incentive to be in the labour market. We can then solve this in two ways: we can either look at those who are in the labour market or we can look at those who are on passive support. There we have to say in relation to some of the things that have been said, where they say that we should not look at the benefits, that we now really want to reinstate the start-up aid. There is no doubt that the removal of the start-up aid has also caused us to experience this massive influx to Denmark. Now it has just been a question of providing the economy for tax relief and that it is not possible to provide the economy for it. No, but at least 6.3 billion has been made available. kr. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous programming periods. In 2011, we had an economy called 2.9 billion. kr., and in 2015 it has been budgeted with 9.2 billion. kr. Those funds have been found; they could have been done in a different way. What we want to do is to have a debate in which we look at how we can create an opportunity for those in the labour market to get more out of it as well. Therefore, we would like to take part in looking at among others. The job allowance to see that it pays better. We would also like to take part in looking at a cash aid ceiling to see that we do not have these cases, and we recognise that it is not the individual benefit, but it is the total benefits that make there are single families who have these large incomes where there is little incentive to enter the labour market. In order not to see that all the green lights are turned on, I would also like to say right away that the Danish People's Party does not want to impose a ceiling on the daily allowance. There is now a commission working. It has also been suggested on several occasions how a new benefit system should look and we are completely open to that discussion. It has also been suggested that the benefit should be higher in the early stages and lower in the later stages, etc. etc. We look forward very much to that discussion. Of course, you cannot discuss whether someone should have a higher benefit at one end, if you have already set a ceiling on it. For it is at least easy to promise high benefits if you subsequently drag them down with a ceiling. It's just to say that we don't actually think that discussion is part of this. The daily allowance system is extremely important for the Danish labour market. If we do not have an unemployment benefit system that Members want to be members of, then we will have negotiations with the trade union movement which will be quite different. We will see that we will try to draw up agreements where there will be one year's notice, etc. etc., and then we do not have a flexible labour market, which is why our unemployment benefit system is extremely important. It is incredibly important that we have an allowance system that Members will also be happy about and that they will, of course, also be members of an unemployment fund. I'm just saying that to close that discussion. However, we are also ready to discuss a ceiling on cash aid and we would very much like to reinstate the start-up aid. In fact, we also believe that, in relation to tax cuts, when we can see the way in which this government has chosen to give priority to resources, there are resources available.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213835	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Camilla Hersom, the Radical Left, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213839	Thank you. That was a clear speech. Is it true that it is the policy of the Danish People's Party to reinstate the ceiling on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213856	We would like to reinstate a ceiling on cash benefits, so that when you look at the total benefits, you reach a ceiling, and then you can't get any more benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213859	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213902	In so doing, the rapporteur also acknowledges that for some families this will mean that they will receive less in benefits than they currently receive?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213912	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213915	Yeah, that goes without saying. When you set a ceiling on it because there are examples that there are some families that have large benefits, it will of course mean that there are families that will experience them getting less. Of course. That is what the proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213925	Sir. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428213930	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said to Jyllands-Posten on April 4th I have papers to quote directly: When it comes to reforms, it is very often about cutting people's benefits, in early retirement, cash benefits, cash benefits etc. And that's where we just want to make it crystal clear that we don't want to cut people's benefits. Will the rapporteur confirm that the Danish People's Party will not cut the cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214004	Yes, and that is what I said in my speech. After all, it is not the individual performance that is the challenge. If you look at what people get in cash benefits, you see that it is therefore very difficult to make it happen if you stand and only have a cash benefit if you are not a breadwinner or anything else. It is not the individual benefit that we are looking for, but the total benefits. And when we say the total benefits, we take free space, rent subsidies, etc. etc. And put these things together.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214022	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214025	So the Danish People's Party can confirm that overall they will cut benefits to the cash benefits recipients; overall, you will be able to contribute to a reduction in income for cash benefits recipients.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214042	We have a system that we find problematic. In fact, we find it problematic, as I also said to the rapporteur when the rapporteur was up here, that we have people who go to work every single day. There are some who spend quite a lot of hours getting back and forth because they have a job. And then we actually think it's demotivating that some people can look in to the neighbor and see that it's in there that you're home every day when the kids are off school. You can see that you have your own expenses by getting back and forth on the job, and you do not have an amount of money that is greater than that which the people next to you have. Then it is not the people who are wrong. Then there's something wrong with the system. I also have this report from the Employment Council of the Workers' Movement, and they confirm that we are in this situation where some people go to work every day without having an economic incentive to do so. We can, of course, be glad that they will do so, but the question is how long they will.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214128	Then it's Mrs. Maja Panduro, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214131	We have seen some rather divergent reports from the Danish People's Party in this area, so I have to hear just so it is quite clear: can the rapporteur confirm that if we reinstate the cash aid ceiling as we knew it, it will mean that a single cash aid recipient will lose up to DKK 1 600. a month? How's that? The Danish People's Party says that they do not want to cut the cash benefits, but want to reinstate the cash benefits ceiling. 1,600 kroner. less for a person receiving cash benefits per month is that what is the policy of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214208	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214211	I can say quite clearly that we do not want to cut the individual cash benefits that you get, which are on the • I do not remember the figure entirely, but it is probably from 10,000 up to about DKr 13,000 that you are on cash benefits. We want to limit the benefits that come next door when you have received your cash benefits. But not the individual performance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214233	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214235	Does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party believe that it has any bearing on the recipient of cash benefits who loses these up to DKr 1,600? a month, whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party calls it to cut cash benefits or to set a ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214254	Now it is the case, when we talk about people on cash benefits, that there are also many other challenges. We would also like to look at the completely different palette; i.e. About education and how to get closer to the labour market. We also heard the Social Democrat rapporteur who said this: jobs are now coming and employment is increasing. But so many Eastern Europeans are taking these jobs. There are incredibly many people who are outside the labour market on cash benefits and find it very difficult to get in there. It has to be said that some of these funds should also be used to bring these cash aid recipients closer to the labour market. We have a huge challenge with this group. Now you've got this activity-ready and not activity-ready in the municipalities: look at the figures and see how many people have moved into the vault, which is not called activity-ready. It is being increased and increased, and that is also why we sometimes see unemployment figures falling. We still have a rather great challenge in the labour market, even though reforms have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214347	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214350	Thank you. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, whom the Danish People's Party wishes to make Prime Minister, said on 22 April ■ and I quote: We have no plans to cut child pay, housing insurance or any of the other things. That's the cash aid we're cutting. Quote out. And then my question to the Danish People's Party is simply: can you accept that the ceiling on cash benefits is reinstated by cutting cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214414	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214417	In relation to the first that came, I can at least start by saying that we have not pointed to Helle Thorning-Schmidt, because she does not want to work with us. That's why we're pointing to someone else named Lars Løkke Rasmussen. And then I just want to say that what, sir? Lars Løkke Rasmussen says it's okay. What I welcome is the fact that in many areas the Left says that things are not chiseled in granite, among other things. in the area of benefits and elsewhere. We therefore believe, if the electorate wants us to have a different majority, that we can also get the Left to move in the direction that we would like, and we do not want to cut the individual benefit in relation to the benefit recipients. This is the policy of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214452	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214455	So you have to understand that the Left's insurance to the children's benefit recipients and all sorts of others is not worth the paper on which it is written, because the Danish People's Party is right here. Can we then just go back to saying what we did not get a very clear answer to before: Does the Danish People's Party want a reduction in the order of DKK 1 600 to which Mrs Maja Panduro referred?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214516	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214519	What is important for the Danish People's Party is that we have a look at the total benefits. We need to look at the total benefits when you're on passive support and that's not cash benefits. That's when you're on cash benefits. What is the framework available there? And there must be a greater difference between passive support and employment. We are also saying that it should not only be in relation to benefits. I have said several times that it must also be out on the other side, in other words that there is more encouragement to be in the labour market, among other things. by the fact that the job allowance and other things can increase. This also gives you a difference without, in fact, cutting the individual performance. Then a combination.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214556	Thank you. Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214604	Thank you. I would like to see if we could get a little closer to what the Danish People's Party really means in terms of cutting or not cutting cash aid. Because in the Everything's candidate test, a number of the rapporteur's colleagues say that they agree with the following: cash benefits must be reduced so that the economic benefits of working become greater. This applies, for example, to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, Mr. Martin Henriksen and others So they agree that cash benefits should be reduced so that the economic benefit of working becomes greater. On the other hand, the rapporteur himself and several other colleagues of the rapporteur feel exactly the opposite and therefore disagrees. So which of the two is the policy of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214649	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214653	What's so amazing about these questionnaire surveys that come up for election is that then you can answer yes or no there's nothing in between. And then it depends on how you've read the question. The Danish People's Party's policy is quite clear in this area: we do not want to cut the individual benefits, we want to limit the total benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214713	Thank you. Mrs. Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214716	Okay, but then I can ask you a few questions. In other words, when you reduce the individual's performance to live on, it doesn't matter whether you call it one or the other. So I would also like to know whether it is the rapporteur's colleagues who have misunderstood the Danish People's Party's policy to lower the individual benefit, i.e. cash benefits. So again, I'd like to say that I think there are more here who are a little confused. Some money has to be taken, but is it the total benefits or the individual benefit? Who in the Danish People's Party is right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214752	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214754	I don't remember the question that was in relation to that questionnaire survey. But to put it plainly, if you take a single man or a single lady for the cause of cash benefits, it is not much money that you get to live for. This is not the amount that the Danish People's Party wants to cut. Where we can have a challenge is, among other things, when we look at it when you get housing subsidies, heating supplements, free space, etc. etc. in particular where there are two on cash benefits. Then it is very, very difficult for one side to get into employment; then both must be in employment at the same time. These are the cases where you can see it and it's not the people we're going for, because I understand that you don't want to take a job where you get 1,000 kroner. out of it a month, and then you have expenses of 2,500 kroner. to drive back and forth. I understand that, but then we have a system that is wrong, because then we will keep people outside the labour market. And then you can talk about families with children, where we keep parents away from the labour market, and is that so good? That's not good.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214856	Sir. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214858	I would like to ask the rapporteur: does it make a difference to the individual whether one loses DKr 1 600? a month, as a result of cuts in cash benefits, or on the basis of a modern ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214914	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214916	I must be quite honest and say that I am not a labour market rapporteur. I don't know how to get to the 1,600 kroner, but that could be included in the next question, where the 1,600 kroner. Come from. Cash benefits are constantly being said, and it is a benefit that you receive as cash benefits, and there are other benefits next door. There we just say what I have said so many times, as there are more who have asked about it: it is not the individual benefit that we want to cut, it is the amount of benefits when they are put on top of each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214946	Thank you. Sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428214950	I understand. However, does the rapporteur not agree with me that for the individual it does not matter whether you lose, let us just say 1 600 kroner again. because of one thing or another? Well, money is money, and I guess that's what matters when it's people who already have so little to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215010	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215013	The challenge here is that it is the group that has many supplements on top of each other • free space, housing allowances, other. There are situations where the neighbor, who starts every day driving at work, can look in the window and say: there they sit, and they sort of get the same out of staying at home that I get out of driving at work. That's what we're gonna do about. We don't want to punish. We're not jealous of a single person on cash benefits, and nobody is. One does not have much to live for in Denmark when one is single on cash benefits, and that is not the benefit we are going for, it is the total benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215046	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215054	Now there's been a lot of talk back and forth, and sir. René Christensen has actually answered quite well for himself, but one could actually refer to the proposal for adoption that all four bourgeois parties, namely the Left, the Danish People's Party, LA and K, are behind. I would just like to read out a sentence which states: Parliament also calls on the government to look at the total amount of benefits that a family can receive in public services, including considering the introduction of a ceiling on cash benefits, and to reinstate the start-up benefit. - Sir... René Christensen confirm that this is what our four parties are proposing and can Mr. At the same time, René Christensen also confirms that what the government has done, namely that the 225-hour rule has been removed, that the ceiling on cash benefits has been removed, that the start-up aid has been removed, has made it less attractive to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215135	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215138	Yeah, I can confirm everything. That's the challenge. The discussion we have had here today has, of course, been about something quite different. I am sure that even if you are a social democrat or a radical, you can see that there is a challenge in the early mornings that some people are getting up and doing their job and that they can see when they come home in the evening that what they have then done has not given them a significant financial gain. Surely most people must agree that we have a challenge. Part of the challenge is also that the government has chosen to prioritise in the way they have done. That's why there are two ways to solve it. One is to look at the total benefits you can get on passive support. The second is to look at how it can become more attractive to be in the labour market, including to lighten the tax at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215227	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215234	Thank you. Now I don't think all this number stuff and all that stuff is the only thing that gives a damn. I would like to try to get just one estimate of what was actually the question: can it pay to work and if not, what do we do about that problem? It is not solved by choosing your or Left cash aid ceiling. It doesn't change anything. But how do you get people to get jobs? Isn't that what this is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215257	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215300	Yes! That is, in fact, the question. That is why these things must also be linked to the educational boost that needs to be given. The problem is, of course, that what we are seeing today is that recipients of cash benefits with a seniority of four years on cash benefits must compete with Eastern European workers. They're having a really hard time with that. That is why we are very pleased with the employment reform, which we are also part of, where we are much more educating unskilled people to skilled workers. Many of them are on cash benefits, and that is where we believe they have been seen quite correctly. But you haven't looked very much at the cash benefits recipients yet, because what kind of offer are they getting? What we can see when you look at the economy of the municipalities and the budgets that lie out in the municipalities is that when the job centres are cut, it happens, among other things. in the training part. It is a municipal expense and the municipalities are now cutting. This is the wrong way to go and I very much agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215342	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215345	Then there are two questions left. It is said that the non-active must also be able to work, but there is a special need for action. There must also be efforts to get people on early retirement to work, just as the Left says they must be able to come. That's why it's no good to talk about the 800,000. The second is: Why on earth did not the Danish People's Party vote in favour of our proposal in 2013 to give the unemployed the opportunity to train? There the Danish People's Party said: No, we certainly should not. And so did the Left and the others. It was not good enough to give the unemployed those opportunities, because then they would not be available for the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215424	What we can see is that longterm unemployment is on the increase for the weak, particularly those who benefit from cash benefits, and it is not those who are on the verge of receiving early retirement. What we can also see is that the longer you have been on cash benefits, the harder it is to enter the labour market. And what we can also see when we look at the budgets laid down by the municipalities is that it is precisely in the area that has been saved. We are therefore very pleased that this has been managed or that we hope, of course, that the reform will ensure that more benefit recipients are moved from unskilled to skilled workers. We're still missing the same exercise for these cash aid recipients. Nor have we found the stones of the wise, as many of them here have other challenges than the fact that they are not in the labour market; that should not be misunderstood. But we have a big job to do if we do not have to excuse me the phrase "lost such a large group on the floor because they get so hard to get back into the labour market."
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215514	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215517	Thank you. Chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, mentioned earlier that free places should be included in the modern ceiling on cash benefits, and I see that the rapporteur is now nodding from the platform. I think that there are many citizens out there in Danish society who are very interested in what services you could bring with you here, which should be exactly included in this modern cash aid ceiling. So I would like to hear the following: is also included in the modern cash aid ceiling if the Danish People's Party is to have an influence on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215548	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215550	We do not believe that child support should be included, since it is a universal benefit that comes and has been regulated in relation to the level of income. We are, in fact, very much in agreement with the fact that children's money has been done, which regulates in relation to people like us who sit in the Folketing. After all, our children's money has been heavily regulated, and we think that this is a good way to regulate child money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215615	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215619	Okay, so we can sum up. The children's allowance must not be included, but the places of residence must be included. - Sir... René Christensen so speak freely from the liver now? What are the other benefits that the Danish People's Party believes should be included in the modern cash aid ceiling? The word is yours, you have 30 seconds to mention everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215637	[Sound out]... it's on the platform and vice versa. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215643	Now you have to be careful that you remember them all, and I do not think I can, but what is important to us is that we look at the total benefits you receive, including free space, housing allowances, etc., I would say. These are the benefits we need to look at, i.e. what the overall level of benefits you get as a family, and it is very important that we stick to the fact that it is the total benefits and not the individual benefits that we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215707	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215711	I think this is quite interesting, because if I sat out there listening to the Danish People's Party now and sat with some of these benefits and didn't really know what I had of money, I would be very, very worried. Now it has been found that some of the various benefits must be included and others must not be included. I'd just sit out there and think where I'm gonna end up. Then I'd go back and think, what about those 1,600 kr?? Are these the ones I'm gonna miss, or what am I gonna do without? I would really like the Danish People's Party to give an answer to all those people who really shake their pants a little over what the Danish People's Party is about to embark on. What can these people expect from money? It is very, very unclear who can expect to get less and how much exactly they can expect to get less.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215757	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215759	I could sit out there as a freighter and get up every day at 8:00 a.m. 5:00 in the morning and put me in my little truck and drive into IKEA and hold and wait for someone to come out with a cardboard box and say to me: Will you drive this cardboard box home for me? I do that during the day, and when IKEA closes, I drive back home and see how much money I've made that day. I think that when he or she sits out there looking, he or she is wondering whether he or she should call his employer the next day and say that he or she does not come in and stop at IKEA the next day and wait for someone to come with a cardboard box, for he or she would rather be on passive support, and then the employer can appropriately get some Eastern Europeans to pick up those cardboard boxes. That is the situation we are facing. This is about both. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is problematic that some people get up every morning and go to work without getting anything out of it? There are even some who bring money to work every day. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215854	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215858	What I cannot quite understand is that it is not a problem for the Danish People's Party, who will always boast that they are the little man's party. Can the rapporteur not understand that it is a huge problem that people now do not know exactly where the Danish People's Party stands? They run around with the various benefits; you do not know what benefits are involved; you do not know how much money you have for yourself. And then the Danish People's Party says if they don't want to work. Of course they want to work. But they don't know what they have to look forward to with the Danish People's Party. Why don't you give us an answer? What does that mean? How much money do these people want for themselves? Is that 1,600 kroner? less they want, or what is it? I think these people deserve an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215938	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428215941	I can at least say this quite clearly. A great deal has now been said about the daily allowance as well. This is not the group we are discussing here. What we are discussing here is the overall ceiling on benefits when you are on cash benefits. There we can see examples of • and it is the government's own figures that when there are two growing in a family and also children, and where there is free space and other things, it is not worth taking a job. So we have a system to keep adults outside the labour market. And then we can talk about social heritage and everything else. The Social Democratic Party usually wants to discuss how we can stop the negative social heritage. Here we are told that we must maintain some benefits which mean that these parents do not choose to enter the labour market. We would like to break with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220025	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220027	Now I think it will be very interesting when the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party talks about the social heritage and then precisely when it comes to defining the so-called new ceiling on cash aid and talking about including these free places in the institutions. It wasn't a part of it before. What will it have to do with social consequences if the weakest families are forced to take their children out of the socialisation that is happening in a child's institution? What's gonna happen to those kids? Would it be better for the children to be outside the community that is in a kindergarten than to be inside it? That will be the consequence if it is that you do not receive subsidies for what is no longer in the open space. How will this affect the social heritage?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220111	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220113	What is of course interesting is that it must be worthwhile to go to work. So, the Social Democracy sometimes listens to the Labour Movement's Enterprise Council and asks: what are they saying? And they actually say in the report they have made that there is a very large group for whom it is not worth going to work or where there is a very, very small incentive to go to work. Then you haven't even figured out what the costs might be of getting to and from jobs. What is happening is that with that regime we maintain people outside the labour market, and you cannot have a system that keeps people from not being in employment. We'd like to change that. There are two roads to this or not two roads; there are two tracks to be driven out in parallel: this is in relation to the overall performance ceiling, while, of course, we have to look at what rules there are and what the tax system is when we are in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220207	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220210	That is precisely where we did not get an answer to the question I asked. It was about the freeway. The Danish People's Party has introduced from the platform today that as something completely new the free space should be included in the cash aid ceiling. This would mean that the weakest families risk their children no longer being able to attend day care. Will it be positive or negative for socialisation and for the individual child's chance to break the negative social heritage?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220239	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220241	It is very, very positive that children go to day care. I would like to point that out. That's too many. I would also like to say that it is also very, very positive for adult people to be in employment. It is very, very positive to be in the labour market. It is very, very positive as an adult to have the network, it also provides to be self-supporting. So there are several parameters in this. I think it is a pity that this is going to be a debate on the fact that the Social Democrats want to keep people on passive support. I've never heard anything like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220317	Then it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220331	I don't quite get it. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party stands on the platform and says, on the one hand, that it is quite fine that a cash aid recipient loses DKK 1,600. per month due to a ceiling on cash benefits. On the other hand, the rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party will not be involved in cutting DKr 1 600. per month in cash benefits. Can the rapporteur explain how this is related?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220352	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220354	Now I asked a former rapporteur too, because I have to be quite honest: I do not know how to arrive at the 1 600 kroner. I mentioned that earlier. So I hope it comes to the second question, i.e. the $1,600. I hope that comes up on the next question, because we have clearly said so when the question of cutting 1 600 kroner. for a cash benefit recipient, is posted. No, the Danish People's Party will not. We do not want to cut the individual's cash benefits. I think I've said that a lot of times. But I would very much like to discuss the 1.600 kroner, and I fully recognise that I do not know how to get to that figure, but I am getting that information now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220430	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220432	Now the rapporteur says it again: the Danish People's Party will not help cut the cash aid. But then explain to me why the Danish People's Party is in favour of a cash aid ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220443	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220444	It's because the total benefits are so high that, for example, if you are a family with two adults and possibly more children, one or more children, because you have so many passive benefits that it doesn't pay to go out and take a job. And then we say, "Well, then you keep people on passive support." At the same time, we also believe that it is untenable that there is a large group going to work every day, doing their jobs and actually having no financial gain. I also hope that there are other parties, including on the left, who think that this is a system that we need to have looked at, that it is a system that we need to do differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220528	Then we move on to Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220536	Should we not then just start by making it clear that with the system we have in Denmark, it is really the case that if you are going to have cash benefits or if you are going to have unemployment benefits, you have to be available for the labour market. And you cannot choose whether you want a transfer income; you must be available and take the work you are offered. The rapporteur can respond to that in a moment. But then I noticed, and so I was glad that the rapporteur said that some of the recipients of cash benefits have other challenges than being unemployed. My question is this: will it be easier for the recipients of cash benefits to get to work when they receive lower benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220618	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220621	No, the benefit itself doesn't make it any easier. But what I said was "and you can also see that we have said it in the past" that we would very much like to look at how we get this group of cash benefit recipients closer to the labour market. What this is about is not continuing training, because many of them do not have training. Many of them are as far away from the labour market as one can almost get without being on early retirement. There we would like some tools to bring them closer to the labour market. And that is also part of the package, of course it is, and I have said that several times today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220651	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220653	Well, good. But when this help recipient with family, or whatever it may be, is down in Brugsen and has to shop, does it matter when he looks down in his wallet, whether it is the first money that the Danish People's Party has taken up, or whether it is the last money that the Danish People's Party has taken up? Will there be less or more money in that wallet?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220715	René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220718	Let me use the example I had mentioned earlier with the man who got up and drove cardboard boxes inside IKEA. Why, when he stands down at the grocery store and looks in his wallet, should he have less money in his wallet than the one standing next to him who is on passive support? Does the rapporteur really think that this is the kind of system we should have, so that when the person who stands up every day and does his job and does his job stands down at the grocery store, there is less money in his wallet than in the wallet of the person standing next to him who is on passive support? I do not think the rapporteur agrees with that, but in some cases it is in fact the system we have today, certainly not in all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220756	Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Orla Sea, which until now is the last with brief comments. Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220802	What makes me most distracted by Mr. René Christensen's presentation is that it is presented as if the unemployed actually want to be allowed to go unemployed most of all. The unemployed I know are very sorry to be outside the labour market; they really want a place in the labour market. Mr. René Christensen saw that their conditions were improved by further creating insecurity, uncertainty and a worse economy around their lives in an attempt to push them into a labour market that is having difficulty absorbing everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220836	René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220838	There is almost again in the question whether it is the individual benefit it is not. But is that the way I can take myself as an example? If I were now on passive support, and someone came and offered me a job that I would get no financial gain from taking in relation to my passive support, would I choose it when I had to decline to be at home when my children got off school and the other benefits that could be about being at home every day? Should you renounce it and take a job that would give no financial gain? I don't think so many people choose that. Some even have ^ and this is even shown by the report of the Workers' Employment Council also increased the cost of entering the labour market because they also receive transport costs. It's probably not such a system, sir. Orla Have wants us to have?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220924	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428220928	Well, I feel fully covered by my rapporteur's statement that we want everyone to have an opportunity to work, but it really ticks me that the Danish People's Party is portraying it as if it were winning the lottery to be allowed to go free. That's not the picture I have. I have actually experienced a lot of people with praying eyes: Do you not just have an opportunity to find a job for me, so I have a chance to get started on a good spiral and get a network so I might be able to advance to another job. This applies to young people, including young family members who have lost their jobs because of the relocation of industrial jobs. Is this really the picture that the Danish People's Party is going to give, that is to say, that you want to further undermine the opportunities of these families by weakening their economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221014	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221016	No, we will actually support them in getting closer to the labour market. The challenge of the system we have today is that these people, if they are offered a job, will in some cases get a minus by it; that is, they will get a lower income by taking a job. That is where the challenge lies. So again, we don't think people are at all cheering about being on cash aid. Cash benefits are low in Denmark. It is difficult to live for a single cash benefit, but there are cases and this is also shown in the report where it is not worth taking a low-wage job. We cannot be familiar with this either with the unemployed, but certainly not with the large group which is in the labour market. We need to solve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221105	Then I think we're gonna say thank you to sir. René Christensen. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Camilla Hersom from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221112	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for having this debate this evening. I think it is developing more exciting than could have been anticipated in advance. After all, the debate is about the fact that working must always pay off. The Radical Left agrees with this, and the whole parliament seems to agree with it. We also believe that it is too far for the vast majority of people to pay for their work, and we have done a great deal in the 2012 tax reform to ensure that the economic incentives to take up a job are increased, not least for others. the single parents, who are otherwise a group which can be very difficult to move from unemployment to employment. We also take the view that the value of a job is much more than the paycheck you get. Having a job is the way to freedom. If you have a job and are self-supporting, you are master of your own life and can make your own choices. Therefore, a job is worth much more than the financial resources it triggers. Many people find an essential part of their identity in their jobs; you find friendships in your job with your colleagues, and you keep your knowledge and skills at bay. As you know, it is also easier to find an even better job and perhaps an even better paid job if you are already in a job. Our society is based on the fact that everyone who can contribute and that the community takes care of those who cannot support themselves. It is a constitutional right that we have as citizens of Denmark and of which I think we can be proud. There are not many countries that can pattern anything similar. For us, therefore, it is also an independent value that the level of public support for cash benefits is sufficient to enable one to live a dignified life and to keep one's children out of poverty. That is why we abolished the poverty benefits in the form of start-up aid and the ceiling on cash benefits as one of the first after we took over government power in 2011. And that is why we have no desire to cut transfers by reintroducing poverty benefits. I also think it is important to mention that the rights and duties of our society include the fact that if there are vacancies, they must be taken regardless of whether you are on unemployment benefits or on cash benefits, and therefore no one can refuse a job on the grounds that the financial gain is too small. We recognise, of course, that economic incentives play a role in people's lives, and that is why the government has implemented reforms that increase the incentive. And that is also why, in the Radical Left, we have a desire to further reduce the tax on work for all groups. We're pointing, among other things. In the context of financing, the tax rebate for homeowners can be abolished. Getting more people into work creates a completely different value for society than earning from the increase in value in one's house. We want even more people to get to work, but it is the path of reform that we have to take, not the path that cuts the room for those who already have the least.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221511	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221514	We have had a debate earlier in this debate on how effective the rules of availability are, and it has been argued by the Socialists that the fact that there are rules of availability ensures that everyone who is on unemployment benefits or cash benefits also gets to work if they can get a job. I would like to know whether the radical rapporteur cannot confirm that the government's own figures show that more people are going to work if it pays better. In other words, if you lighten the tax for people at work, or if you lower the benefit for people who are not in work, then the government's own figures show that more people are going to work. And so the government's own figures also show how important it is, how much desire you have to work yourself, and that there are people today who are more inclined to get to work if the economic incentive to do so increases, and that the rules of availability thus cannot get people to work entirely by themselves there must also be an incentive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221614	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221616	Those were a lot of questions in one, but yes, I can confirm that if economic incentives increase, people will also take on more work. That is why we have made a tax reform. And we'd like to move on that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221629	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221631	Well, that's really nice. Often in such debates you can get an honest answer from the Radicals, which you cannot get from the Socialists. They pretend that it doesn't matter whether it pays to work, because you have the rules of availability. And if one then suggests that it is actually important for people to get to work, that they have a genuint desire to get to work because it pays off, then they say that you stamp everyone as lazy and so on. But it is nice that the Radicals can at least stand by the government's own figures showing that people will get to work if it pays better.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221705	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221706	Well, the last time I checked, the Social Democrats were also behind the tax reform. It's a reform we've done together. And we've got that goes without saying. We believe it should be worthwhile to work, but we certainly also believe that the work to be done should be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221727	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221732	Thank you. I could understand that there are some things the Radicals did not want to do to meet this challenge, if not to reduce the challenge, so at least reduce the challenge, and I understand that we share the view that it is a challenge that a large group of people still have little financial incentive to take a job. I understand that the Radicals are proposing to relax the top tax. Is this what the Radicals are asking for, and is it something that the Radicals expect the government to back up?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221807	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221810	What we have said very clearly is that we want to reduce the tax on labour for everyone, not only the top tax, but also for everyone, at the bottom. It has to be financed, and we then say that part of the funding we are proposing is to stop the tax rebate on housing that has worked since 2001 and that will continue to undermine what is good in our society. That is what we are proposing because we believe that reducing the tax on labour has a benefit. So that is our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221848	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221852	How much should the tax on housing be increased? How much should the top tax be lowered, or should it be completely removed? And is this a proposal that the government shares?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221905	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221907	I think I have made it very clear that it is the Radical Left's proposal, in other words that we want to continue to reduce the tax on labour in order, in return, as part of the financing, to stop the rebate paid to homeowners. That doesn't mean we're raising the tax. We just want to keep it at the percentage of GDP on which it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221928	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank Mrs Camilla Hersom. Then we move on to the next rapporteur. It's from the SF, and it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428221945	I think the debate has been running a little in circles tonight. For perhaps this question debate is not about social benefits at all, about cash benefits, about unemployment benefits, but perhaps it is more about wages, about low-wage jobs, because the level of benefits is linked to the level of wages in Denmark. We do not have a statutory minimum wage, which is why social benefits serve as a base for the rest of the wage level. Moving one down, moving the other down. We have seen from other countries such as England and Germany that when there is a race against the bottom in relation to wages, low-wage jobs, there is no stopping block. One in ten in England and one in ten in Germany is what is called working poor; they are poor even though they are in full-time employment. We are not going to have that in Denmark. From the SF we are not willing to undermine the benefits, neither cash benefits nor cash benefits. We would like to take part in looking at the employment allowance. We want to raise it so that, in particular, low-paid people get an extra gain from working. For those who earn the least, the prize will be the greatest. An employee, e.g. gets $20,000. a year, we will give a tax relief of DKK 3,000. In the Left, who reached out a hand to the SF now we must see if we can It is so modern, so postmodern, that we have not come much closer here tonight in the Chamber, although we have spent many hours on it gradually. But if we assume that the Left will have a cash aid ceiling similar to that which the SF helped to abolish when we were in government, it will give 80 million. kr. to the Treasury or 35 kroner. a year to an unskilled low-paid or approximately 2 cents an hour. If it is for the Liberal Alliance, tax relief must be financed with severe savings in the public sector. It will mean inequality and a completely different welfare society from what we know today. In the SF we will neither throw children into poverty, increase inequality nor spoil the welfare we know today. We will finance an increase in the employment allowance with a tax on financial transactions, what some call a financial tax or an CCT, and we believe that Denmark should already join the 11 EU countries with Germany and Angela Merkel in the lead and join forces to introduce a financial tax. It is only right that the financial sector should also contribute to the Community. It is clear that the money we could get through a financial tax between 7 and 8 billion. kr. We cannot, of course, use it until we have it in the box. That is why I put a question to Mr. Jesper Petersen from the Social Democrats earlier, and I was told that you can't spend money you don't have. No, but you can't spend money at all that you don't try to get in the box. We believe that in a modern globalised world it makes much more sense to introduce a micro-tax on the most harmful form of speculation in the financial system and, on the other hand, to pay less in taxes on wage income, on labour. Because labor moves around. We've seen that for ourselves. We have some challenges with what we often discuss in this Chamber. But, on the other hand, we should tax the things we would like less of: harmful speculation, pollution, etc. That's why the SF has this proposal, and it's only going to happen if there's enough to support it. But it would really mean something to those who are the most low-paid. It's gonna be a lot more than two cents an hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222417	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222421	Thank you. We can try to meet each other or at least be constructive. At any rate, I will try to do so, and I will sign for what the SF has said before by the President and now by the rapporteur, namely that the SF is in favour of tax relief for those with small incomes. Could the rapporteur go a little further on the extent of what the ambition is and why SF thinks it is a good idea? Because I kind of share the point of view. We can then discuss funding, but I share the view that the fact that those with small incomes receive tax relief will be good, precisely because it will encourage more people to enter the labour market and it will also give a good signal to those who have low-wage jobs, that they will gain a greater gain, a little more money for themselves, after tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222505	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222508	I almost thought that Jacob Jensen would complete the sentence in such a way that we could be brilliantly agreed, but then there came this passage that it should pay to work. For us, sir. Jacob Jensen stood up here on the platform, I presented this answer to the Committee on Finance, where it was evident that in the example of the Left there was DKK 20,000.'s difference in whether you were low paid or on cash benefits. Our starting point is that people want to work, that the vast majority want to work. It's a few that don't get any more out of it financially. But we see it as such that jobs have to be there, that jobs have to be there. In some sectors we can begin to see that we lack labour, and then we must also ensure that some of the craftsmen we will be missing in the future are trained. This is among other things. That is why we have made a vocational training reform. So we are in complete agreement on that. But we see the world fundamentally differently in terms of whether people do not want to work or want to work. And there are not enough jobs. Before the financial crisis, when it roared away, we had virtually no unemployment. We did not have much more unemployed than there could be in a stadium, and they alone changed jobs. So I don't know if those people were nagging or lazy or what they were, but they certainly weren't at home on the couch these years. They were working.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222646	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222647	I just need to understand whether it is SF's view that it is the case that all cash benefits recipients want to take a job. Or could it be imagined that there were some who said: there is no, or at least a very modest, financial gain in doing so, so I leave it alone, and that is why I am not going for the job which may be a little more difficult to obtain and which may be a little further away and perhaps not just within my competences, because I do not want to do so? Or is it clearly SF's view that this is not the case and that it makes no difference whether this economy is present or not present, that is whether the prize is present or not, but that everyone who is on cash benefits wants to work? Is that how the SF imagines it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222725	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222727	First of all, I would say that the figure that I think we are all agreed on shows that there are some 300 cash benefit recipients for whom it is not worth working financially. But the vast majority of people also get something else from going to work. They become a good example for their children, they have a working community, and they feel useful. I think there are people out there who, for one reason or another, may not take a job. Perhaps they do not feel well enough equipped to participate in the labour market because they have no education or whatever it may be, but by far, the vast majority of people want a job. What I just started out by saying was that our starting point is that by far, by far, most people would like a job. There just has to be enough work for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222814	We'll proceed to Mr. Knox's office. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222818	It is an exciting journey to follow SF's view of poverty and benefits given. Before the last elections, it was believed that all those subject to the cash aid ceiling were poor. It's called a poverty benefit. Then we had the whole debate where the SF was supposed to find one of the poor, and then someone who went by the first name Carina was found. She was poor, said SF, but when the figures were brought out, it was found that even though she was under a ceiling for cash assistance, she was not poor. That's what the SF said; she wasn't poor. But she was representative of people in the same situation, single parents with a child, and yet she was not poor. Others in the same situation had similar benefits, so they were not poor either. Now we hear again that if you introduce a ceiling on cash aid, you will again make people poor. What is SF's position? Does being subject to a social security ceiling make you poor, as Carina was? Or wasn't Carina poor, even though she was subject to a social security ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222921	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428222923	I had a hard time hearing about sir. Ole Birk Olesen said that it became poorer because of the introduction of a ceiling on cash benefits. Of course, you become • poorer than you are today, it gives itself because you get less money paid out. The debate that took place a long time ago is not open to me. But I'd like to discuss it with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen quite generally, if people are poor if they are subject to a cash aid ceiling. It's a definition, but my definition and SF's definition is that in Denmark you are poor relatively, if you find it difficult to get the ends to meet when it's Christmas; if you find it difficult to send your children to a children's birthday with a gift or difficulty in affording to send your children to football. People who are on cash benefits find it difficult to get the ends to meet for all the things that we other people might think are quite natural. We can see that, year by year, more and more people are queuing to get Christmas help. In short, the reason why I do not want to go into the Carina discussion is that I think it is a little tasteless to keep on flipping off an individual. But I'd like to discuss it with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in general, whether people who are on cash benefits or under a social security ceiling are poor in today's Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428223042	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428223044	Now it was SF who wanted to find Carina. After all, it was SF who wanted to discuss poverty on the basis of an individual. Then it was just that it failed because no one thought Carina was poor. And then SF said: No, that's right too, she's not poor. But that discussion is now reset, isn't it? Now it is again the case that if you are in the same situation as Carina and subject to a cash aid ceiling, then SF thinks you are poor; for now it has been three years, and then people do not remember Carina's figures and so on. Then we can again start to say from the SF that you are again poor if you have the same money as Carina. Is that what's at stake?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428223122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428223123	Now I don't know where mr. Ole Birk Olesen has grown up, but where I grew up, there were a lot of children of cash aid recipients, a lot of them. Actually, most parents weren't at work. They were mine, but there were a lot of people who weren't. And there are many different reasons why children and young people find it difficult to move forward in the system. It can be about expectations and educational opportunities and everything else. Now, fortunately, we mitigate mostly in Denmark because there is free space, and because there are different benefits, because we do not think it should hurt the children that the parents find it difficult to find a job, but when a family is on cash benefits, there is not much to run with. And I think as a member of parliament, where we earn an okay salary, that there is very, very far down to the level that you get as a cash aid recipient, especially if you get hit by a cash aid ceiling. So relatively you are poor in Denmark if you find it difficult to get through a Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428223224	There are no more brief comments. Then I thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and give the floor to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428223238	Thank you. The whole bourgeois premise is wrong. 95% of all the unemployed, including those on cash benefits, i.e. those who are ready for work, are actively seeking work. This shows a survey from Statistics Denmark, even from last year. So the problem is not a lack of motivation, as some suggest, but a lack of jobs. Work always pays off. A net win of DKK 1,000 a month in the case of wage work is of great value because it increases purchasing power by 61⁄2%. or 33 kroner. a day for vegetables and children's leisure activities. Because here there's no money for 2,000 kroner shoes. or suit for 5,000 kroner. Moreover, I am surprised that any calculation of what is worthwhile must always be made on the basis of the lowest collective wage. Who on earth says that an unemployed person should go from unemployment to the lowest collective wage? Personally, I have never done so, even though I have been unemployed quite a few times. I've always gotten a lot more, because the experience you have, after all, always gives something extra. A payoff of DKK 1,000. is worth much more than the amount, because this comes from the agreement's pension, the sixth week of leave, paid training, pay during maternity leave, etc. It cannot be expected that the unemployed will always be looking for work at non-contractual jobs. At least I wouldn't do that if it were me. Left cash assistance will only make people poorer, and children's families are hit hard by a ceiling on cash benefits. When cash benefits are reduced by thousands of kroner, it is the 36,500 children of parents over 30 years of age who become poor and do not come to birthdays and sports clubs. Are these the ones we help or punish? That almost goes without saying. The Left will not quantify the ceiling on cash benefits, but their friends who pay for the election campaign, namely the Danish Employers' Association. They will reduce the benefits for early retirement and people on sickness benefit by DKK 4,500. a month. Quite absurdly, the Danish Employers' Association believes that people are getting up from a wheelchair and that employers are queued to offer them work if that happens. Nothing could be more hostile or unrealistic. The rules of codecision in themselves mean that we have to take up work. Otherwise, we're gonna lose pay. And I got quite excited to hear Ole Birk Olesen from the Liberal Alliance's description of the unemployed. With an experience of more than 20 years among the unemployed, it is a wild, world-removal description that is heard from the Liberal Alliance. It must have been in some old dusty book at a university. That's all you can do if you want to talk about these things. Believe it or not, ordinary workers can find job satisfaction, even through unskilled work, joy in having good colleagues and joy in being able to support themselves. As workers, we hate to be dependent on public funds, untimely control, suspicion and duvetlifting. It's part of our DNA as workers. But it is also part of our DNA that we will not tolerate being suspicious as lazy, as some who do not want to work. I personally, and this is some of my DNA, do not take any work on any condition. That's it. There must be an agreement, and safety and health must be in order. Otherwise, we should not take the work. The Left campaign is about something quite different, namely that the benefits should be reduced, so that the unemployed are more hungry after any job on any condition. When there are many foreign workers on the one hand and many unemployed Danes on the other side of the factory, then you can push the wage in the companies. And that is actually the goal of the campaign. It should be turned upside down. Employers must get up, be attractive to the unemployed. The unemployed are available for the labour market. The time has come for us to say to the labour market and, in particular, to employers: see to it that the unemployed are made available. It's become everything, too easy just to demand in, just to stand and shout in the corner with the bourgeois. Danish Construction continued today. Just a few hours ago they demanded that building workers should be available throughout Denmark. This means that a construction worker at home from Silkeborg must be able to travel to Rødby every day for a temporary job. He has a sick wife and he was on TV and told about it. Who's gonna take care of his kids? Are they gonna sell the house or what's gonna happen? Where is the limit of decency? I think the last thing is that employers, when they have job vacancies, have to lay them out, so that all unemployed people can see the jobs on Jobnet, in ads, in cashiers and job centres, and not only with agencies and agents abroad. Then we could get a real picture. And then the problem is still that jobs are missing for the unemployed, and that is what we need to concentrate our energies on instead of this pseudo-debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428223800	Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, and there are no brief remarks. So we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428223818	Today, according to the government's figures, there are 330,000 Danes who have little financial incentive to work. When the government's tax reform is fully phased in in the year 2023, the 330,000 will be reduced to 250,000. I am pleased that the government at the Minister for Economic Affairs here from the platform says that it is open to further measures to reduce the number of Danes who have little economic incentive to work. I noticed that what the Minister said was very good. The Minister also asked for solutions, and I would like to offer them as well. After all, in the Liberal Alliance, we have presented a 2025 plan, which includes: It is a fairly large element of the plan that it should pay better to work regardless of income, by making the first DKK 7,000. of the monthly salary completely untaxed. No income tax should be paid at all by the first DKK 7.000. of monthly earnings. We also have the government's word for what it will mean for the number of people in Denmark who have little economic incentive to work. It will fall from the 250,000 in 2023 when the government's tax reform is phased in, to just 92,000 when then Liberal Alliance's policy is added to the sum of 250,000 to 92,000. So you have to say, it's something that moves. It's moving a lot. It moves twice as much as the government's own tax reform. These are figures from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so I know that the Minister is familiar with them. That is our bid, we put it on the table, and we hope that the government will take it to heart and listen to us. Because we have a problem. It is, in fact, so absurd a problem that there are between 25 000 and 30.000 self-employed people in Denmark, such as Denmark. because of the taxes they pay, they come down to an annual income after tax, which is below the level they would have been at if they closed down their own business and instead applied for cash benefits. There are 7,000 to 10.000 part-time workers in Denmark in addition, who would benefit from termination of their part-time jobs and instead apply for cash benefits. They would simply get more money after tax if they were not working part-time but instead on cash benefits. These are also figures from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Of course, you can say that people working part-time and people working as self-employed are themselves a little out of it, because they could just work full-time or they could not start their own business at the risk of a low income in the first place. That is also absolutely right. But there is now something strange about it if it is the tax that makes them come down on an income below what they would get if they were on cash benefits. In other words, you are levying taxes on some people who already have a low income and then handing out the money collected in taxes to some others who do not work at all and who then end up getting a higher income than those who pay the tax. It shouldn't be like that. And that will be our proposal for no tax on the first DKK 7,000. to a great extent make up for it. We have talked a little about availability rules here today, and they are just not doing the job that needs to be done. Of course, rules of good will must exist. It must be the case that there is a requirement for what to do to be available to the labour market when you want unemployment benefit or cash benefits. However, as everyone knows, including everyone who denies it from this platform because they have a political interest in it, we cannot force people to show a great deal of commitment to a job interview. You can force people to go to a job interview, but you can't force people to say during the interview that they really want that job. Nor can it be forced, once they have started a new job, that they will not be sick after a week, on the grounds that they have now suffered somewhere. This kind of thing is often experienced by employers when they get people sent out to work from the local job centre, such as: that the desire to make an effort to keep that job may sometimes lie in a small place. That does not mean, but I get shot in my shoes, that I believe that all unemployed people do not want a job. That means, of course, what I said earlier today: the figure shows that one third or 30 per cent. of the job-ready cash benefit recipients are not really available for the labour market. We must, of course, do something about this, and we have now put forward proposals on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224331	Then there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224339	Thank you. First of all, I do not have the paper on the question put by the rapporteur, nor the answer. However, I would like to start by asking a question, since the rapporteur points out that you can make a tax starting at DKK 7 000. a month. I assume that the Liberal Alliance also has a figure on it might be nice to have at least to later in the debate how much it costs. So, 7,000 kroner, and we have, as we briefly talked about, about 2.8 million on the labour market in Denmark. I can barely figure it out, but at least it costs a few dollars. Can the rapporteur say anything about how much it will cost in all this? That is my one question. Then I'll go to the other one. It then points in a completely different direction, but it still looks like. I have noted that in the last few days, the Liberal Alliance, through its labour market rapporteur, has asked the Minister for Employment some questions about the benefits, where he among other things. has asked what the amount of availability will be for people who receive DKK 6,792. a month. This corresponds to the lowest rate of cash benefits. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether this is an expression of the rate that the Liberal Alliance could envisage for everyone on cash benefits in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224512	It's $44 billion. kr., which is 4%. of the total public expenditure, to release the first DKK 7,000. of the monthly salary of all in employment for tax purposes. These are figures from the Ministry of Finance. It is, of course, a relatively large amount when compared to what is usually moved around with in a financial law debate in Denmark, but vice versa it is when you see that it is 4%. of total public expenditure, including an amount that you can find if you think this is really important. And we think it's really important. Then Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen what the Liberal Alliance wants as a rate for cash benefits. After all, we have submitted the proposal in the 2025 plan, which the Minister of Finance has outlined, that the youth benefit which previously applied to young people up to 25 years of age, and which this government has extended to people under the age of 30, should also apply to people over the age of 30. So the extension of youth benefits from under 30-year-olds to all on cash benefits is what is in our 2025 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224623	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224625	Thank you. That means it's $6,792. per month to all on cash benefits, whether or not they are cohabiting, whether they have children, regardless of any amount of money • DKK 6,792. a month. Okay, but does the Liberal Alliance also have the idea that there should be a ceiling on the total benefits as described by the other rapporteurs who have spoken on behalf of the proposers?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224655	No. In what has been sent from our 2025 plan to the Ministry of Finance, the 6,700 and something does not apply to the breadwinners. It is the case today that if you have a child, you get away from the youth rate and up to a higher rate, and that is the proposal we have sent to the Ministry of Finance for calculation. Then the question was whether we could agree to a ceiling on cash benefits. It's not our policy to have a cash aid ceiling. We prefer the cash assistance model set out in our 2025 plan, but if there is no majority in favour of it, then we are willing to do something else to ensure that it pays off to work, for example. be a cash aid ceiling similar to that in force before 2011 when this government came to. But that is not our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224742	The next brief remark is from Mrs Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224746	Thank you. After all, we are interested in figures this evening, and I am interested in knowing how far the cash benefits really go down. After all, the Liberal Alliance has asked a number of questions, and I would ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur to confirm that it is the policy of the Liberal Alliance that the benefit we currently have for 25-29 years should also apply to cash benefit recipients over 30 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224819	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224821	I can confirm that. I've just done the same thing to Mr. Knox. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224827	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224829	It is also clear from the answer to the Finance Committee's question that the Liberal Alliance will reinstate the 225-hour rule. Can the rapporteur confirm that this will mean that, if so, only one of the married couples on cash benefits, that is to say one of the persons who will then be able to receive cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224852	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224854	Yes, if we have a couple of cash benefits, i.e. where both parties are on cash benefits, and one cannot live up to having worked in, I think, the rule was 225 hours in the past year or in the past six months I simply can't remember it, I'm not the labour market rapporteur, then it's supposed to lose the cash benefits, as I remember it. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224923	We move on to the next one with brief comments, and that is Mr. Nadeem Farooq of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224934	Thank you. Can the rapporteur confirm that if the cash benefits rates for 25-29-year-olds apply to all cash benefits recipients, then a married couple on cash benefits with children covered by the 225-hour rule will be able to receive a total of DKK 9640. in cash benefits a month before tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224948	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428224951	No, I cannot confirm that, because I simply do not have the figures either in my head or on the paper I have brought up here. So I'm not in a position to confirm that. I'm not saying it's wrong, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225003	Sir. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225006	That is fair, but I would like to ask: what does the rapporteur think, in principle, about the amount of this DKK 9640, and we are talking about a family for children?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225017	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225019	After all, we are talking about a cash aid couple, both of whom are on cash aid and who could not live up to the fact that one of the parties should have been in work for 225 hours over a certain period of time, and I think that is a reasonable requirement for a cash assistance couple. The 225 hours are not very many hours over a year or six months, or whatever it was. So I think we have a bigger problem with there being families in Denmark where both mother and father are on cash benefits for decades and maybe even a whole life, and where children grow up in those families without getting the impression that you have to work to support yourself. This is a huge social problem which the 225-hour rule helped to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225105	We move on to Mrs Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225114	Now the rapporteur himself says that he is not the Liberal Alliance's labour market rapporteur, that is as far as I remember. Joachim B. Olsen, who is, and on 13 June last year in Berlingske, on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, said about the unemployment benefit period here in Denmark and I quote: We are clearly positive that we look at the length of the benefit period, which is still very long in Denmark, and that we look at the rate and the level of compensation. Does the rapporteur agree with his labour market rapporteur that the unemployment benefit period in Denmark should be shortened?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225142	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225144	After all, we welcome a great many proposals, but the policy of the Liberal Alliance is not that the benefit period should be shortened. We have not put forward any proposals on this, nor is it part of our 2025 plan that the benefit period should be shortened. So you can take a positive view of some proposals without making them your policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225205	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225207	I must then, when the rapporteur says that it is not the policy of the Liberal Alliance that the benefit period should be shortened, choose to take it too well now. Is it then the policy of the Liberal Alliance that the level of compensation should be reduced or that the rate should be reduced, as the labour market rapporteur also mentioned here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225229	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225232	Nor have I proposed that other things should be done about the unemployment benefit system in Denmark, nor is it part of our 2025 plan that we should get money from the benefit system to finance it. So I can deny that we have put forward any suggestion that something needs to be done about the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225250	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225258	Well then, I do not know who to take seriously, i.e. whether it is the labour market rapporteur, who everyone listens to and thinks is very, very serious in this country, i.e. Joachim B. Olsen, or whether it is the rapporteur now. We have a lot of statements from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, and he also says that if you want to do something about it and think it is a problem, you have to look at the benefits. You can't fix that by just lightening the treasure at the bottom. Where there is the most effect in terms of moving people from transfer income to employment, it is quite clear in the benefit system. There are incentive problems in the cash assistance system, but where there really is a gain is in the benefit system, here hangs the low-hanging fruits in relation to moving people. I can almost hear sir. Joachim B. Olsen say it. Then we do not agree that it is then the labour market rapporteur here who draws the party in relation to the party's policy in terms of labour market policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225345	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225347	It is not, then, because it is not the party's policy to do anything about the benefits. I remember that time, too, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen was not the chairman of the group, but the socialist rapporteur for the Socialists, and I think that is where I remember that he sometimes said some things that were perhaps not entirely the Socialist policy, but where he was open to all sorts of things and supported everything that was not supported by the Socialist Ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225411	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225414	So we make it quite clear that the Liberal Alliance will not touch the daily allowance at all, because it has not even on earth, and every single time Mr. Joachim B. Olsen opens his mouth in this direction, we can quote from it, but he is not the one who is drawing up the policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225429	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225431	Well, like everyone else, we are waiting for a proposal from a benefit commission set up by the government. If it were now the case that Leif Lahn Jensen was able to guarantee that the government, this government that is sitting now, would not touch the daily allowance, his question might have a greater justification. I cannot guarantee that, after an election, we will not think that the Supplements Commission makes good proposals, which we will also take as a basis for policy formulation. But right now we have nothing on the slip, and it is not necessary to cut the daily allowance to finance our 2025 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225507	Then we move on to Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225512	A very, very new and topical quote from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is no more than 1 week old from April 21st. There Joachim B. Olsen, from the rapporteur's party to the Stock Exchange, says: "It is important that we make an allowance reform which helps to increase employment. We didn't add an exact number. But it would be nice if we could make an allowance reform that would provide an increase in the number of workers between 10 and 15 000. So it's not more than a week ago, sir. Joachim B. Olsen said this. And even if a precise figure cannot be added, can the rapporteur tell us whether, according to the Liberal Alliance, an increase of 10,000 to 150 000 people is to be made in the supply of unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225557	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225600	Yes, it is obviously our policy that we need to increase the supply of labour. The fact that something is being done with an allowance reform would be a very good idea. But we don't have any proposals on the table yet. We're waiting, just like Mr. Kim. Jesper Petersen, what the government benefits commission says about this, whether there are any good kicks that should be taken in. We have no proposals on the proposal for an allowance reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225622	Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225624	No, although sir... Joachim B. Olsen has even meant a great deal about it, we can hear from the quotes here tonight. In the same article in the Stock Exchange, which I referred to a moment ago, which is only one week old, one can read that according to the CEPOS, the supply of work can be increased by 14,000 people. It is in the range here, as Joachim B. Olsen speaks of if otherwise the benefit rate is reduced by 10%. So you have to reduce the daily allowance by 10%, and then you can increase the amount of work on it, which is what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen calls really nice. Is it a model that the Liberal Alliance is considering, i.e. reducing the daily allowance by 10%??
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225706	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225708	It is not something that we have ever discussed in the parliamentary group of the Liberal Alliance that we should think, that is, that we should do so. So I can deny that this is something we are thinking about or discussing in the parliamentary group of the Liberal Alliance, because we have not done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225722	Then we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225729	Thank you so much. "You cannot force the unemployed to be involved in a job interview," said Ole Birk Olsen. No, you don't have to do that either. If it is a decent job and not a shitty job that is underpaid and where safety and working conditions are at the mercy of, then the job is available. The managers of small businesses do not close down their businesses, although it would be better to go on cash benefits. No, of course they don't, that is to say they close their business, because they also think about taking care of themselves, just as the worker does. What's the point of that strange suspicious and theoretical approach to reality? Or can't the real world drown out all these strange statistics that's messing around in mr. Ole Birk Olsen's head? I would like to hear that reality does not impress the Liberal Alliance at all? Does it have to be squeezed into a theoretical model that says that something must be wrong if it is such that it does not pay in exact crowns and ears?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225833	Sir. Ole Birk Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225836	Now the President is also beginning to call me Olsen. I would say that in future I will begin to call Mr. Christian Juhl for Mr. Christian Santa, if Mr. Christian Juhl doesn't know how to say Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Sir. Christian Santa Claus is a good name for Mr. Christian Juhl, for he is willing to distribute gifts both morning and evening and year round. But I think it's sir. Christian Juhl, there's a lot of theory in his approach to this. Sir. Christian Juhl has not seen the figures from Danmarks Statistik, which shows that 30%. of the unemployed cash benefit recipients are not available for the labour market. Nor has he seen the countless television broadcasts showing people, concrete people who are not available for a job offered to them. Instead, he just has such a claim in his head. I think he has learned at an old Communist school in the GDR that you just have to say things a lot of times and that if a lie is repeated often enough, it becomes a truth for some people. But Mr. Christian Juhl knows that there are people in Denmark who do not want to work. Sir. Christian Juhl has met Donovan Robert, and Mr. Christian Juhl knows that there in e.g. immigrant families are women who do not have a desire to enter the labour market. Yet he claims the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428225959	The President will endeavour to pronounce the names quite correctly. I think that if the President starts to cheer up on people's names, then things will go very wrong first, so I will refrain from doing so altogether. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230009	Thank you. No, I haven't learned it at some school far away from Denmark. I have 30 years of experience both as unemployed myself, but especially by working in a local 3F department where I have met the unemployed day after day for more than 20 years. If that experience doesn't matter, okay. We're not going to discuss that. I want to tell you about someone, Jacob from Henning. He's 46 years old. He's 3F, and he got fired in 2012. In August he is without labour market benefits and, as you know, it is small. He's gotta sell his house. He's applied for 1,500 jobs, 500 jobs a year, two a day, if you take the weekdays. That's reality. He's registered for seven agency agencies. What the hell is that man supposed to do? - Sir... Ole Birk Olesen doesn't see that it's the jobs that are missing and not the motivation? It is completely in the woods to keep saying that it is the motivation that is lacking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230110	Even if you say the names correctly, you still have to keep to the speaking time. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230114	Well, I have no doubt for a moment that most of the unemployed want a job. And I have no doubt for a moment that the person Mr. Christian Juhl talks about, also wants a job. It just does not change the fact that there are also some unemployed people who do not really want a job. If e.g. Mr. Christian Juhl moves into the immigrant ghettoes and meets some of the women who come from cultures where it is not normal for women to be on the labour market, where it may be seen more as a welfare benefit if women can stay home from the labour market, because that is the culture, Mr. Christian Juhl also sees that there for example. There are people who do not really want a job but who are happy that there is a public service to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230207	We move on quickly to the next brief remark. It's from sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230213	I would also like to ask the rapporteur a little about a good colleague of his, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, who said in the article from last week, which has also been mentioned before: I am surprised that when the Left talks so much about how worthwhile it should be to work, the party talks about cash benefits. However, where there are real problems with it being worthwhile, there are in the benefit system. Is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen agrees that the fact that it should pay off to work is not solved by the Left's model?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230244	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230246	I agree with the Left that it helps a little to solve the problem that the Left will lower the tax at the bottom for people who get to work. We do not know how much they want to lower the tax, so I do not quite know how much it will solve. On the other hand, I also agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Joachim B. Olsen in that if you implement the Liberal Alliance model, the difference between being in work and not being in work will increase by DKK 1,700. a month, and that solves a great deal if you implement it. And that is solved without cutting the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230324	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230325	Now, after all, we have talked about the 250 000 people who have less incentive to work, and when only 13 000 of them are on cash benefits, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen saw that it is a targeted solution that the Left goes to the problem with? In other words, is it targeted to deal with the 13,000 if you think the problem is much wider?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230351	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230353	I don't have to give grades to the Left's policy. After all, it is a well-known case that the Liberal Alliance thinks that the Liberal Party of Denmark in the Left leaves something to be desired. We wish the Left would be more liberal. Everything that the Left does much of what the Left does is going in the right direction, but only with very small steps. We think they should be much bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230423	Then we move on to the next brief remark, and it is from Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230430	Thank you. This could be the opportunity to hear a little about the other steps. Because I have to admit, I'm a little confused. Left will cut cash benefits, cash benefits and perhaps early retirement. The Danish People's Party will not cut cash benefits or cash benefits, but in housing benefits, children's allowances and free places. The Liberal Alliance, if we agree with the rapporteurs, will not cut unemployment benefits, but cash benefits. What about housing benefits, children's allowances, free places, etc.? Is that something the Liberal Alliance wants to take small steps in relation to?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230509	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230511	No, it's not. We have mistakenly come to the question to the Ministry of Finance about our 2025 plan to submit that there should be a reduction in housing aid. It was an old policy point that we had before presenting a cash aid reform, in which we decided that with it it it was no longer necessary to cut housing subsidies. It is just to explain that, although the question that we have put to the Ministry of Finance says that we are going to cut housing subsidies, we are no longer going to do so because we have found something else instead. So no, we don't want to cut those benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230546	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230547	Could Mr. Ole Birk Olesen then does not contribute to at least my understanding, because what is the Liberal Alliance really want in this area, and where is it that you can meet with the other blue parties? Because in my best judgment, it sails nicely in blue block on this area here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230607	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230609	I think we are going relatively well in the same direction, although with different forces in the veins. The Liberal Alliance's proposal is that the youth benefit which previously applied only to young people under 25 years of age, but which the government has extended to Danes under 30 years of age, should be extended to Danes over 30 years of age. That is one part: the service we want to cut. The second part is taxation policy, and that is where we propose that income tax should not be paid for the first DKK 7 000 earned per month. This will increase the difference between being in work and not being in work at DKK 1,700. a month to all those who are at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230649	Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230653	Well, I've really been sitting here trying to concentrate and figure out what the Liberal Alliance means. But I think that tactics must be something like: we just mean something different in the party. If you are then confronted with it, you say that's not exactly what you meant, now you've just come up with something new, but you mean kind of the same thing, but not quite, and then it's very, very unconcrect. However, I understand that what links the policy of the Liberal Alliance in this way is that if you lower the benefits that somebody gets if they get unemployed, it will pay better to work. But has the Liberal Alliance thought about the phenomenon that some of the places where they have actually tried to reduce these benefits have happened, so it has happened marvellous that the wage level has also fallen, so that you continue to have the same problem? Is it really what unites all these many different positions that the Liberal Alliance has that you basically think it could be really good if also the wage level in Denmark dropped?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230751	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230753	Sir. Rasmus Prehn is quite right in saying that the minimum wage level currently in the collective labour market has been set as a result of the benefits granted. Well, the reason you can set a minimum wage of about 110 kroner is that there are no people who want to work for 100 kroner anyway, and that is a problem. It is actually a problem because there are some people whose labor is not more than 100 kroner. Worth it. Not all people can earn 110 kroner.; some are not so fast, some are not so disciplined, and some are not so stable, and the people who cannot earn 110 DKK because their labor is not worth it, we in Denmark have just chosen to park out on a performance. However, it would be happier if they were at work at 100 kroner. per hour than they're on cash benefits for DKK 10,700. a month. 100 kroner. After all, an hour is 16,000 kroner. a month. So that would be better than cash benefits for DKK 10,700. or DKK 10,800. or 10,900 kroner, or wherever it is. So yes: it would be good if those who cannot earn 110 kroner were to get to work for an amount such as: was 100 kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230901	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230903	Aha, so now that we've had this whole layer of staffing and extravagance from, the Liberal Alliance's policy and message to the Danes is up against the election: Go down in pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230917	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230919	No, it's not. For those people who today can earn 110 kroner. For an hour or more, it's worth it. You can ask Rasmus Prehn here any labour market researcher. It is not the case that because there are people who can only earn 100 kroner. per hour and they come to work for 100 kroner. in an hour, people who can make 150 kroner. per hour, also come down to 100 kroner. It's an hour. That's not what's happening. What is happening is that the labour market is expanding, so that people who are not able to earn the minimum wage also get into work for what they can earn without affecting the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428230956	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231001	Now we understand that the Liberal Alliance has a tax policy. Things have also come up on a cash aid reform, and I am rather surprised, as I have a quote from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, who says: "I am surprised that when the Left speaks so much about how worthwhile it should be to work, the party talks about cash benefits. However, where there are real problems with being able to pay for work, there are in the benefit system. ▪ He says so to the Stock Exchange with reference to the slogan that it should pay to work. But how can I understand this when I have just understood that the Liberal Alliance also has a proposal in relation to cash aid? What, then, is Liberal Alliance policy in the field of unemployment benefits? Can you lift the veil a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231058	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231059	Our policy with regard to benefit recipients is that it should also be better for them to be able to pay for work, and we solve this problem by reducing the tax significantly for people who get to work, no matter what salary they get when they get to work. Well, we increase the difference in the amount of work and then to be on the daily allowance by DKK 1,700. a month with our proposal for no tax on the first DKK 7,000 you earn a month. So that is how we can solve the challenge with the benefit recipients as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231130	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231132	It was then a repetition of the tax policy, but if we can get a little bit of a veiled about what the Liberal Alliance, which is probably not just happy to sit and wait for a commission, will do. Well, I guess the Liberal Alliance has a policy in the field of unemployment benefits. It's rare to hear that the Liberal Alliance just wants to wait for a jelly jar, which it used to be called. What exactly is the policy of the Liberal Alliance? How should the benefit system be changed if that is where we can really move something?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231203	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231204	As I have already said, we have no proposals to change the benefit system in Denmark. We are, like many other parties, awaiting the proposals of the Disability Commission. There will probably be some good ideas, some of which we will probably be able to use, and then we may take them to heart. However, it is just important to make it clear that we do not need to tamper with the daily allowance system in order to finance the growth reform for Danish society, which is in our 2025 plan. Our 2025 plan increases employment in Denmark by 124,000 people and increases GDP by 108 billion. kr., without touching the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231243	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231246	Thank you. I just wanted to say thank you to Mr. Simpson. Ole Birk Olesen for his honest talk to Mr. Rasmus Prehn a little earlier. It was interesting to hear that what really worried the Liberal Alliance was that according to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was too tall in Denmark. I think that is quite interesting. Because when the Liberal Alliance is now standing here talking about a lower level of cash aid, because it has to pay to work, with a claim that it is not worthwhile to work today, it is quite interesting that what the Liberal Alliance wants to achieve in this way is that there will be lower wages for the lowest-paid Danes. Well, what's the consequence of that supposed to be, according to the Liberal Alliance? Does that mean that even more is to be cut in cash after that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231341	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231342	Then I just repeat: it is not the policy of the Liberal Alliance that people who earn 110, 120 or 130 kroner. per hour, must be paid worse. It's not something we can control. Surely it is an agreement they have with their employers that they should be paid, and that is because they are worth that salary. A person who gets 120 kroner. per hour, can produce values that are at least 120 kroner. and probably a piece above, otherwise he would not be able to get a salary of 120 kroner. It's an hour. They will continue to do so, even if we get people into work who are only able to work for DKK 100. It's an hour. After all, it is about some other people, and I would like to ask Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen: Seems Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, it is better to be on cash assistance for just under 11,000 DKK. a month than being in a job for 100 kroner. per hour, if 100 kroner. per hour is the maximum you are able to serve?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231435	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231436	Well, the situation is exactly that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen used to say 120 kroner. the hour for the lowest-paid Danes according to their agreement was too much. I just wonder when the Liberal Alliance has said in the past that it was precisely about how it should pay to work for these groups. I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Mr Ole Birk Olesen for being so honest in today's debate, because it is quite clear, and Mr Olesen knows that. Ole Birk Olesen also states that if the cash benefits are reduced, then the lowest-paid can also be squeezed further into pay. We have now heard this quite clearly from the Liberal Alliance, and I think it is nice to have the facts on the table here at 1 p.m. 23.15 after a long and fortunately good debate, which results in the truth coming out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231528	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231529	Well, I never said that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen claims. I never said that people who make 120 kroner. I'm gonna have to pay less per hour. Clearly, they are not, for they are able to earn that wage. If they were unable to do so, they would not have their work at 120 kroner. It's an hour. What I have said is that some other people in Denmark who are unable to earn the minimum wage of the agreement must also have the opportunity to enter the labour market and work for the wage they are able to earn. It may harm them, even
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231609	With this pious desire, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen finished for today, at least under this point. There are no more brief comments, and the President should be grateful that he has also had some exercise this evening. That's very nice. We move on to the next rapporteur, and that is for the Conservative People's Party, Mr President. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428231650	When I sat and heard the debate here, I remembered a few years ago when I was on a trip to China I think it was along with the Parliament's Finance Committee where we also visited the People's Congress. There I came to talk to a Chinese politician who had gone all the way with Mao Zedong, and we came to talk about equality. He was in favour of equality, he said. He said that he was in favour of a socialist market economy, and I was a little interested in that. But it was market economy, he said, but it was also that he was in favour of equality. Then I said that I was more in favour of equal opportunities, and then we got to talk about it a little, and then he said that he had been on a study trip to a Scandinavian country, not Denmark, but another Scandinavian country, and there, he said, they had studied those benefit systems when people were unemployed. And then he told me that there he thought it had gone too far in terms of equality. Because, as he explained to me, what you got in the allowance was that I think it was in Norway that you got almost as much when you were unemployed as if you were at work, and there he thought you had driven the equality too far. And then I thought it was really funny, because I think we have reasonable daily allowances, but I thought: it is really interesting that, as a conservative, I should be taught by such an old communist that we have driven the equality too far in Scandinavia in relation to China. I was thinking about that while listening to the interesting debate we have had. I think it is important that we also consider thinking a little beyond the borders of the country. For we are living in a globalised world, and it is so that if we want to remain one of the most prosperous countries in the world, and if we want to be able to afford to have a proper public sector in which we can provide properly for those who cannot take care of themselves, then we need to be more capable than the others. Because there is global competition and we must be competitive on all fronts. That is why we must also look at the fact that we probably have the largest public sector in the world in terms of population. I guess we have the highest taxes in the world. There may not be anywhere around the world, there may be a few, two European countries I think it is where you have higher overall transfer income than we have in Denmark, and it must give rise to some reflections as to whether we have arranged Denmark sensibly in relation to our being able to manage in the long term. Whether it is worth working in Denmark must be one of the things we are considering, and that is what this debate is about. Is it worthwhile to work? Do we have to do more to make it pay to work? And we have to do that. It is clear that people who do not have a job and are of working age want to work. This applies to the vast majority of people, but it must also be the case that there is an incentive to do so. That's why we made the cash aid ceiling at the time in the VK government. We did so because we could see that there were some for whom it was not worthwhile to work unless, at least, they went directly from cash aid to a very, very high income which was unrealistic for most people. That is why we introduced the ceiling on cash benefits. It was sensible to do so, and unfortunately this government has removed it again. We also introduced the start-up aid so that it would pay better for people who come to this country to get a job; to get to work quickly when they come to this country so that they can contribute to the development of society, but above all are able to take care of themselves and their families. That's why we want it back. That is what the Conservative People's Party is seeking. So we are also going to go for a better job at all. For there is both the fact that it must be worthwhile to work and, indeed, it is so for most that there is a small positive difference. But it's not done with it. Work must also pay better. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that a difference of 3,000 DKK. would be appropriate to say that it should at least be. At least you have to have 3,000 kroner. more a month, if that's how you get a job than you don't have a job. And that is not something that we can do by simply regulating the rates of transfer income, of course not. After all, there must be a reasonable standard of living for those who do not have a job and cannot get a job. That's why it's hard to avoid talking about taxes. Honey is one of the most important things. If we are to create a society, and if we are to create a Denmark where it is better worthwhile to work, pay better to save, pay better to make an extra effort when you have a job, and pay better to invest, create businesses, take the risk of getting people into work, then we need to get the tax down. And then I sense from the President that my speaking time has been used up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232233	But I can comfort Mr. Lars Barfoed said that he was given the opportunity to respond to a number of short remarks, so that there would be good extra speaking time there. It's always nice. The first is sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232247	Well, it's interesting to hear that, too, sir. Lars Barfoed now supports the new chairman of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Søren Pape, who says you have to take a step to the right. Now we have heard the other bourgeois parties talk about the need to cut a little on cash aid, to cut a little on cash benefits, to cut a little on early retirement and to do everything we can to encourage people and to say that work must be worthwhile. What I understand is the conservative philosophy, is that if you pull the blanket under people and give them with the stick, they'll figure out how to work. There I would like to know whether it really is the case that the Conservative rapporteur is going to top up this whole discussion of cuts in this area and whether he is still standing by what he said on 13 June in Berlingske, namely that it was actually open to cut further during the benefit period so that it comes down to one year's daily allowance. On June 13, Mr. Lars Barfoed expressed it in Berlingske.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232351	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232353	What I said on that occasion was some suggestions that we made in connection with the Bornholm People's Summit, that we could well imagine an unemployment benefit system in which we said that at the beginning of the benefit period you can get more in cash benefits, especially if you have earned the benefit right for a longer period, so that you can get higher unemployment benefit for a longer period, when you have earned it, and less in cash benefits for a shorter period, if you are unemployed for a longer period, in order to gradually increase the incentive to get a job. It is also because it is reasonable to consider whether it is not at the beginning of a benefit period where there may be a shorter period of unemployment that a higher level of compensation is needed. If you continue to be unemployed, then you have to accept that you get less compensation. That's what it was all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232453	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232454	Now I think it sounds a little bit like Mr. Lars Barfoed pulls ashore and tries to make it sound a little different. Well, sir. Lars Barfoed or Mr. Lars Barfoed did not say what he said on 13 June last year in Berlingske, namely that at a time when many people have fallen out of the benefit system, they are prepared to say: if it is up to us Conservatives, there is only one year on the daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232518	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232519	It is the case that that sentence is taken out of the context that I just explained, because it was as part of a comprehensive reform in which we do better for some to get unemployment benefits and also provide some with a higher rate of compensation. After all, we are approaching the time when we see a report where there are proposals for changes to the benefit system, so what I think we should do now is look at what comes of good proposals there and then take an open mind about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232550	The next brief remark is from Mrs Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232555	It's really an interesting night. A more recent quote is from April 21, this year, when Mr. Mike Legarth, the Finance Rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, says to the Stock Exchange: "We would like a new unemployment benefit system to significantly increase labour supply. It is a natural consequence that when we change the benefit system, we also increase the supply of work. ▪ Will Mr. Lars Barfoed elaborates on what exactly lies in the proposal of the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232626	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232628	Now I don't know exactly that quote. I have to say, moreover, because I forgot to say at the outset that I am speaking instead of Mr Seligman. Mike Legarth, who couldn't be here today. Sir. Mike Legarth is usually our rapporteur in this area, but he had obligations elsewhere, which is why I took the job this evening. But we certainly believe that we must be open to everything that can be done to strengthen the incentive to take a job, and also reward it for taking a job, and not least reward it for making an extra effort. We certainly believe that this should be done, and it is certain in this context that Mr. Mike Legarth has said what he said in that quote. But I can't know what the context is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232714	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232716	With the previous questioner there was a long discussion about whether the rates should be higher at the beginning, and things and matters. But in the same article in the Stock Exchange, the EPOS suggests that you can increase the amount of the job offer, i.e. that the Conservative People's Party will increase by 14,000 people if you lower the daily allowance rate by 10%. Is that what the Conservative People's Party wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232740	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232741	No, we do not want to reduce the rate in general. But we have presented the possibility that one could imagine that one could operate with a higher rate at the beginning and a lower rate at a later stage in a period of unemployment, so that the average rate was actually the same, but that one got more at the beginning and less at the end of the day to gradually increase the incentive to take a job, and because it will often be the case that one most needs to get a higher compensation at the beginning. If you continue to be unemployed, you have had time to try to adjust your economy and way of life according to the situation that you seem to be unemployed for a slightly longer period.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232826	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232829	So should I ask whether it should be understood that if the daily allowance rate is higher at the beginning, it will ultimately be lower than the current daily allowance rate? Is this how the Conservative People's Party's proposal should be understood? The second point to which I would like to return is the statement that the benefit period should be reduced to one year. Is it part of a single package that the period should also be reduced to one year? It didn't sound like it made a big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232919	No, in one year's time it will be part of a wider context, because it is not the case that it should be a period of one year for everyone. We have just said that we need to look a little unbiased about whether we can create a more dynamic benefit system where there may well be a difference in what you have insured, depending on how long you have been insured and how long you have been in work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232940	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428232943	Then I just didn't get an answer as to whether, if you're going to have a higher benefit at the beginning, that means that the benefit you're going to have at the end of a period is less than the benefit rate we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233002	It could be that way, but it depends on how long you have been insured and how long you have been at work. In other words, the idea of what we presented at the People's Meeting last year is that we need to have a greater dynamic in the benefit system so that there can be a difference between lengths of benefit and levels of benefit, depending on how long you have been insured and how long you have been working.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233027	Let's see how far we've come. We've come to sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233035	Thank you. I have great respect for the fact that you don't know what Mr. Mike Legarth may have said and in what context, but Mr. Lars Barfoed probably also knows, as former party chairman, what the Conservative People's Party believes, i.e. whether you want to increase the supply of work by turning on, among other things. daily subsistence allowance. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233058	We want to increase the supply of work. What we have first and foremost dealt with, also in relation to this current debate, is the fact that we have too high taxes, and what is primarily intended to increase labour supply in this country is that we make it more attractive to make an extra effort. It can be in many ways. It is not just about people who are unemployed. It's actually just a relatively limited part of it. We must also look at a situation where, hopefully in the coming years, we can see that there are even fewer people who are unemployed and where we can have a serious problem with the supply of labour. We need to look at whether we can do anything to encourage more people to finish their education more quickly, so that they can move more quickly into the labour market. And can we, on the other hand, do something to ensure that more people choose to stay longer in the labour market because it pays better? That is why taxes are really the most important instrument for us when we talk about increasing labour supply. Because there will be a need to increase labour supply in the coming years, and that is why we need to find instruments that we can use to do so, and that is where we will have to look at lowering taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233213	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233215	Where's that money gonna come from? Is it really part of this where you take the money from some of the benefits that we have heard a lot of talk about, whether it's a ceiling on cash benefits, an allowance, something or other? Is that where the money's supposed to come from for those tax cuts? 'Cause I get it, sir. Lars Barfoed so that we need to increase the supply of work and that we need to increase the incentive to work. Can you do this effectively without touching the daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233242	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233243	That is a very limited part of our overall economic plan, where funding is found in the fields which Mr. Jens Joel who mentioned. We have presented an overall plan for the economy up to 2020, in which we are redeploying a total of 60 billion. kr. in the public sector. We're spending the 40 billion. kr. for tax cuts, and we spend the 20 billion. kr. of those we re-prioritize to strengthen efforts in other areas of the public sector. It is certainly not in the areas of transfer income that we are getting any revenue. It is a very modest revenue, which in reality lies there, except that we are proposing to abolish the post-retirement wage altogether, and that gives a great deal of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233327	Then we'll move on to the next one, and that's Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233331	Thank you. We also saw it earlier when we discussed a little with the Liberal Alliance. That's where we found out, sir. Joachim B. Olsen actually believes that the way to look at how best to work is to look at the benefit system and not the cash benefits ceiling. Conservatives agree with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen in that it is the benefits you have to look at in relation to that it pays to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233356	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233357	Well, our opinion is, as I just said to Mr. Jens Joel that the most important instrument is the taxes at all; that's where we find most. When we look at who it is worth going from transfer income to taking a job, there are some for whom it is not worthwhile and there are some for whom it is not worthwhile. And then there are many who are at work where we say that it would be good if we could also strengthen the incentive for them to do more or stay longer in the labour market. In all areas, however, tax reductions are the most important factor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233437	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233438	So that means that for the rapporteur and for the Conservative People's Party, the allowance does not mean anything, the cash benefits do not mean anything. It has nothing to say when you consider that it should be worthwhile to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233452	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233453	It's amazing, as sometimes it's hard to hear, though, I think I speak out loud. This is how I say that tax relief is the most important factor, but I have said very clearly that I said it in my introduction that we in the Conservative People's Party want to reinstate the cash aid ceiling, which was quite reasonable, and we also want to reinstate the start-up aid. But I'm just pointing out what's the biggest factor in our overall plan, and that's actually the tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233527	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233530	Thank you. In the 1970s, I got 90%. of my salary when I was unemployed, and I didn't get the minimum wage. I went to work anyway the next time there was some work, even though it gave less than I got before. Today I would get at most 50%. I think I would go out and look for some work, even if it would not pay the salary I have received here in the Folketing. In 2010, the bourgeois government cut the daily allowance. This has not led to a substantial fall in unemployment. What makes people go to work? Is it the amount of cash benefits and the amount of cash benefits, or is it the availability of work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233629	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233631	That, of course, is all. But the most important factor of them, sir. Christian Juhl mentions that there is a job. The vast majority of people take a job if there's a job. So one of the most important things we can do is to implement an economic policy and an enterprise policy that will make it better worthwhile to operate and start new businesses so that businesses will earn more money. That is, first and foremost, what creates jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233701	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233702	Then we have certainly not used all this time this evening very sensibly, I would say, if we are discussing whether it is worthwhile for the individual to look for work when there is no work for them. But I got one thing out of sir. Barfoed's speech, namely that it must be reasonable to expect at least 3,000 DKK. In the past, however, there has been an increase in the number of young people in the labour market. I would say that I will take it with me if I once again become unemployed. Then I'll say to the job center: You know what, I've got a good advice from a good friend in the Folketing; he says that if you can do something here that makes me earn at least 3,000 kroner. If I know, I can say yes to it, but otherwise he thinks I should leave it alone. Isn't that a little backwards? Is it an open door and an invitation to all unemployed people to demand at least DKr 3 000 now? To go to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233753	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233754	I don't want to get paid for that advice. But I would say that I think it would be fair for it to be so. That is what we want to develop and get things there, that you get an increase in income of DKK 3 000 when you get a job, so there's that difference. It is therefore primarily tax relief that can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233820	Then we move on to the next one, and now it is Mrs Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233825	When I was a little awkward earlier, this was because I really wanted to comply with the rapporteur's wish to talk about tax cuts and about the 2020 plan presented by Conservatives, it would be desirable for the great bourgeois party, the Left, to be inspired by the idea of increasing the employment allowance by 3.58%. This corresponds to a maximum tax relief of DKK 3,000, not per month, but per year, i.e. DKK 250. a month. Then I would just like to hear from the rapporteur of the Conservatives about a tax relief of DKK 250. is enough to make sure that everyone gets this 3,000 kroner. extra a year out of work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233913	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233915	Let me say that we are doing a lot of other things in that plan, and may I say in parenthesis that since some parties are being reproached for not having put forward any plans, I certainly do not think that the government has seen any plans at all about what the government wants. So I think you have to be careful about throwing stones when you live in a glass house. We're doing more things in this plan. After all, we are also lowering a large number of excise duties, and then we are rolling back the bottom tax increase, and then we are also introducing a ceiling on cash benefits. After all, it is a co-operation between all the things that have to do, that we approach that goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428233959	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234001	I believe that the rapporteur is aware of the fact that the government has a 2020 plan, but it is true that it looks significantly different from what the Conservatives have proposed here. I just want to hear what the rapporteur describes here and I assume that it is then an exhaustive list of what the Conservatives want to implement from initiatives in addition to the higher employment allowance to ensure that all those who are not part of the cash benefits system receive DKK 3 000. further out of working • How far do we get in relation to that? How close do we get to the fact that everyone has a prize of 3,000 kroner? out of working when all this stuff that the Conservatives are dreaming of is phased in?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234040	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234042	When we get everything we dream of, we should get there at some point, that there are 3,000 kroner. But it is not something that can be introduced from one day to the next. It's something that takes a long time. We are not saying that our 2020 plan is then a stop to any development. After all, it is only a few years in the future and it is quite a lot of money that we have managed to move around. That's 60 billion. kr., we're moving around with that plan, and I think that's quite a good step in the right direction. It's a tax credit for $40 billion. kr. So this is a great deal of money for families in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234123	Then we'll come to Mr. Knox's office. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234127	In fact, over the last few weeks, the debate has had much to do with the proposals made by the Left for a modern ceiling on cash aid, and the problematisation has been very much about the fact that there is this group of just over 17 000 people who have a negative difference and who do not immediately get any benefit from being in work. Other parties have not been so happy to agree to this, but Mr. Lars Barfoed admits that it is not cash benefits recipients who are in that group, but benefit recipients, i.e. that they are in this group of just over 17,000 Danes who do not immediately benefit from working? - Sir... Lars Barfoed confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234218	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234220	No, I really can't, because I don't actually know how much of the 17,000 that belong to one or the other group, but I'm sure that Jesper Petersen has some paper where he can see it, and then he can just confirm it himself, if that is the case, instead of asking me. I don't have that number. But that does not change the fact that it is important for cash benefits recipients that it is such that it pays to take a job. That is why we introduced the ceiling on cash benefits at the time. It was precisely to ensure that it was always worth taking a job, not least when we had a family where both people were on cash benefits, and then you faced the situation that one had to have a very, very high income from the start before it could even pay to take a job. That is why we want to implement the ceiling on cash benefits, because it creates the situation for a great many recipients of cash benefits that it will then pay to take up a job again, and we are doing so not only because of the economy of what we are doing, but also for moral reasons, because it is right and proper that we should have work rather than not have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234324	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234326	I can hear that, in a way, we have started to help each other a little with arguments and facts, because it is true that I am standing there. I have asked about it and had it drilled out that almost all of the people in this group of just over 17,000 people are not cash benefits recipients, they are benefit recipients. That, sir. Lars Barfoed then does, anyway, is to go on talking about cash benefits recipients and not benefit recipients, and it really illustrates so well my point that if it is benefit recipients who are in a group who have no benefit in getting to work, then it is well the daily allowance that Conservatives and Left and others need to focus on and not the cash benefits ceiling. Isn't that obvious, too, to Mr. Knox? Lars Barfoed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234416	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234417	It is of course very interesting about the debates in the Folketing. We sit and look in our iPad, on the web and in papers we have, and when we are absolutely sure of some facts, so that we really know what the answer is, we ask the question of who is standing on the platform, even though we ourselves have all the information. This is really a strange way of having a debate. But I'm glad I'm right about that, sir. So Jesper Petersen has the information he's asking me for, because that just confirms it. But yes, it is true that we have to go in and give all those people an incentive, an incentive to work, and that is exactly how I say tax relief is the most important factor. And that is what the Social Democratic Party has never been particularly pleased about. Now it was the case that Mr. Jesper Petersen once accused me of having a bad memory of social democracy policy. Then I did not have the paper, nor did I have any more speaking time, but I have since found the documentation here where Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt says in the election: the choice is between welfare or tax relief. That's what she said. Now I have this black and white. So now I also have a paper with an answer to what I asked, like Mr. Jesper Petersen has.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234532	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234536	Thank you. I don't have to make it that complicated. We have now established that the majority of those for whom it is not quite as worthwhile to work are the benefit recipients. So my brief and clear question to Mr. Lars Barfoed is: Will the Conservative People's Party work to cut unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234552	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234553	I think I have said many times during this debate that what is primarily for us is, on the one hand, to have the cash benefits ceiling reinstated, for it must pay for cash benefits to get a job. That is what the cash benefits ceiling secured. On the other hand, we would also like to reinstate the start-up aid, because it gave a good incentive for people who come here to take a job. And then, first of all, we will use tax policy as a tool to ensure that it pays better to work both for those who have no work, but certainly also for those who are at work, for whom it would be better to be able to pay even better to work. Because it creates more dynamism in society, it creates a richer society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234635	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234635-2	It was a long talk about something other than what I asked. I would just like to ask briefly: will the Conservative People's Party, in order to achieve in the Conservatives' optics that working is better worthwhile, not denying that you will start cutting benefits yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234656	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234658	What we proposed at the public meeting at Bornholm last year was to look at the benefit system together to create more dynamism in the benefit system. We said that it might be a good idea to say that in some areas you can get more in cash benefits and for longer periods, in other areas less and for shorter periods, depending on how much you have insured and how long you have been in the labour market. That would create that dynamic in it and thus, of course, also create better incentives in the benefit system to work. Now, of course, we have to see what the committee that has been set up is proposing changes to the benefit system, and then we have to look together at what can be done to get a better benefit system than what we have today, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234746	Thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed, for that was the last brief remark to Mr. Lars Barfoed. And then I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428234802	Grunting the pigs would know if they knew what was wrong with them. Thus said the Danish legendary King Ragnar Lothbrok, when he exhaled in the worm farm with the English king after being bitten by the snakes. Rains Lothbrok was famous because he was king in Denmark and became so after the great battle of Bråvalla, which may also be familiar to people, but the more so because he was married to the famous Kraka, who was not tested out but was tested out of wisdom, in relation to whether she could find a way of acting neither clothed nor naked, neither satisfied nor fasting and neither alone nor followed by a human being. I think that, having followed the debate here over a few hours, we are clearly getting the impression that the modern ceiling on cash aid is such a kind of Kraka test of the bourgeois opposition, because here we have really got a look at the matter, given that it is completely uncertain what such a modern ceiling on cash aid is. What we have been able to see by listening to Mr. Jacob Jensen, it is a little unclear whether it is a ceiling or a ceiling that applies to all beneficiaries, including beneficiaries of benefits. On the other hand, we know from the past that it is neither housing benefits, children's cheques nor other things that need to be cut, it is the cash benefits themselves. On the other hand, it has been clearly rejected by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, because it is said that it is not a question of cutting the cash benefits, it is the other benefits that must stand for, or it is perhaps the place of the day-care institution that must stand for, because it is like the overall picture that is crucial. In all of this it is quite fair to have different political differences; what just becomes strange is that you then have a common proposal for adoption. Because when we look at what is being pointed out in this proposal for adoption, there are, after all, first the famous 17,700 people who are being pointed out there will be more available by being on public support than by being in work. The thing about who has a great incentive, or who does not, is not figures that generally fill so much in the analyses, because for a great many of them it is a little about the distance to a job and the cost of moving to a job, and therefore they are not so relevant in such a large analytical context. But that is why they have nevertheless found their way to the proposal for adoption, and so we know about them that quite a few of them are people who are recipients of cash benefits and that the vast majority of them are in work, and that is why it can be said that this only makes the benefit issue more interesting. Because that is where you have to go if you really want to do something about it, and we can understand that you agree on that, because there must always be a financial gain by taking a job rather than being on public support. Then we shall hear a little bit about what the parties are saying. It is also pointed out here with these 250,000 Danes, and perhaps in a statistical and analytical context it is a slightly more interesting concept: those who have little economic incentive to work when the government's tax reform is fully phased in in the year 2023. It can be said that those who have the most far-reaching proposal and the most ideas that we heard from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, then can squeeze it down to 92,000, as I understand it. I take the rapporteur's word for it, but I understand that it has to be zero before it really bats according to the proposal for adoption, and therefore it has to be said that even the one who is the longest in the flock has a bit of difficulty in achieving it in terms of what has been proposed in the proposal. So if we should perhaps rather enjoy something, it is after all that we are left with a picture that there are probably quite a lot of nuances in this discussion. In any case, we have to say that if the problem posed here with the 250 000 or the 17 000 has to be solved with a ceiling on cash aid, then the challenges are great. For the old ceiling on cash aid, which we then agree on in some way is out of date, the fact is that when we abolished it, only the number of people with a difference of less than DKK 1,000 increased by approx. 500 people. So if it's a cash aid ceiling that in some way, even in a modernised form, just reminds us of the old, then it moves quite marginally on the issue we are putting up here. So even if you could agree on a ceiling for cash aid to some extent, when you have agreed on what kind of benefits you want to cut, then you will end up with something that does not significantly affect the statistics you draw from your own proposal for adoption. This probably means that we have to return to the starting point that the government also had for today's debate, which is that there are many other things at stake than the economic incentives, although they are quite important, where we have taken a common step with a tax reform that is widely anchored in the Folketing and which makes it possible today to pay more than when we came to work, but that we also have to ensure that our employment system contributes to getting people into work. That is why we have also reformed it and will closely follow up on how it will work in the future: will availability be tested? Do you get the employment effort that makes you approach a job instead of useless activation and indifferent courses? After all, all these things lead to, I think it will be incredibly exciting whether at some point we learn more about what it really is that the ceiling for cash aid in its modern form should contribute and what it contains, what should be cut and who should hold for. What we can say with certainty is that unless it appears in a completely new and exciting form, it will not significantly affect the major issues that we have discussed here today, but it will of course be quite so serious for those it hits. That was the reason why, with the help of the Enhedslisten, we in the government chose to abolish poverty benefits, that is to say the start-up aid, the 225-hour rule and the cash aid ceiling; it was because the balance between the incredibly poor effect it had on the issues we have discussed today and the enormous consequences it had on the individual affected by their living conditions seemed to be completely unbalanced. Perhaps it is in fact the clearest political difference one can see today, where there is the ease with which one stands a little juggling, whether it is the child benefit that one wants to cut or whether it is the free space that has to hold or whether it is the cash benefits, and indeed we do not share it. Because we know that whether you take it off one, the other or the third box, it just means worse conditions for those who have the most difficulty in this society. That is why it is of course far more interesting, in relation to the statistics, to look at whether we can continue in the path we have taken with the tax reform we have agreed together. What is certainly not a way for us is to take money from those who already have the very edge of this society to solve this problem. Because the challenges we see ahead of us here must be solved in a way that is both fully funded but also socially balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235542	There is at least one brief comment. It's from sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235547	Thank you. There wasn't a government and, in this case, the Minister for the Interior as many bids as you want to solve this challenge. I had actually hoped for this, and that was also part of the purpose of putting forward such a question debate. I understand that the Minister has made proposals on this, and I was also confirmed by the radical rapporteur, that the Minister would like the tax to be reduced to the top, that is to say the top tax, and that would have to be financed by increasing housing taxes. Is this part of the government's strategy on how we can encourage greater efforts on the labour market, including getting to work, or how do I understand that proposal? Because normally when a minister speaks, the minister speaks on behalf of the government. Should I understand the Minister's suggestion that the top tax should be reduced, perhaps even removed, and that it should be financed by increased housing taxes? Is that the government's idea of how to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235646	As I said earlier, we have made a tax reform which addresses very precisely the issue raised here today about the incentive to work. I explained in my introduction that we are very pleased about that. And that, when it is fully phased in, will mean that quite a lot of people will be brought into a situation where their incentive to work has become greater. And we would very much like to go further, which can do so further. However, we will do so in a socially balanced way, and that is also what characterised the contribution of the radical rapporteur, including the description of some of the proposals mentioned by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235722	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235722-2	Socially balanced and it was then that you had to remove the top tax. That's what it is. But I just had to understand whether the proposal was a government proposal or whether it was not a government proposal for how to move forward along the path that the Minister would like. So, was it a minister who spoke or was it a party chairman who spoke on that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235746-2	Well, the government's policy is well known. We have implemented a tax reform. We're in the process of phase-in. Sir. Jacob Jensen's party was part of it. And so we have heard here today that the various parties in the Danish Parliament have ideas on how to tackle some of the major issues in our society in the future, including taxation. And there, of course, the Radical Left also has a lot of ideas. That is what we heard from the rapporteur today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235818	There are no more brief comments, and I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. No one else has asked for the floor, and that means that the debate is closed. Can't we just get a little quiet down there so we can move on? It's a little late, but that doesn't change the fact that we have to move on. As I would say, the vote on the proposals for adoption, as I said, will not take place until Thursday 30 April 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150428235854	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 30 April 2015. I give the floor to the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the question, Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, for the reasons given.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429235922	Thank you. I really think it is very appropriate that this debate should take two days, exactly one minute here on Tuesday and then a good hour on Wednesday, because it is an important debate and it is not just a debate that is being held in the Danish Parliament. The debate on the EU-US free trade agreement and the consequences of the so-called investor-state dispute settlement system, a little more popularly called the ISDS mechanism, are being conducted in many places. In fact, it is a growing discussion and concern that is around in relation to the very far-reaching rights granted to investors at the expense of the opportunities for democratic regulation in national parliaments. A number of national parliaments have actually made very critical statements about ISDS. This is among other things. In the Netherlands and France, and in the Austrian Parliament, the official position has been taken that the ISDS should be completely removed from the agreement. The European Parliament is currently discussing what position Parliament should take on the agreement. In this context, a large number of committees have made a great deal of criticism of the ISDS mechanism. For example, the Employment Committee, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have all called for the ISDS to be completely removed from the agreement. But criticism does not just come from national parliaments. The European Commission's ISDS hearing produced 150,000 responses. In fact, it is the largest number of consultation responses ever received by the European Commission. Of the answers, 97 percent demanded that ISDS be withdrawn from the agreement. It is not only in Europe that ISDS meets criticism. This is also happening at home in Denmark. The Committee on European Affairs has today received critical requests from, among others, the Commission. environmental organisation NOAH and Africa Contact. Similarly, from the Social Democratic EU parliamentarian Christel Schaldemose and the Social Democratic parliamentary candidate Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, there has been criticism of ISDS. Yes, the chairman of the Federation of DSU, Alexander Grandt Petersen, has even called TTIP an insult to social democratic values. SF's EU rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, together with the President of the European Green Party, has been out with a speech in the Jyllands-Posten last month, declaring himself an opponent of the ISDS undermining the quote of democratically determined strict regulation. That's interesting. It was also interesting that before the European Parliament elections there were statements from both the Conservatives, from the Danish People's Party, from the SF and from the People's Movement to the journal Note that there was opposition to ISDS in an EU-US free trade agreement. Today's debate is therefore important. I think it is important that we take these critical voices seriously. I think it is important that we have a thorough debate on the consequences of far-reaching investor rights for Denmark and on our options for future regulation for the benefit of people and the environment. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429000250	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. Then it is the Minister for Trade and Development for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429000304	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. Now we have a small night seat here, but it is under the direction of one of the excellent members of the Bureau of Parliament, whom I am sure will keep up the sense of humor with the rest of us. What do you take the opportunity to do when it takes so long? Yes, I spoke to the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who said: can we say anything funny about the debate we are going to have here? Now Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen that what we're talking about here is ISDS, and what is ISDS? I think there are many who sit out there thinking of the many who are now watching the debate here. Well, it's like Mr. Kim. Nikolaj Villumsen said an investor state dispute settlement scheme we are going to talk about in the new free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. I was actually promised a beer if I could come up with a joke about ISDS, and then I thought, "What's the difference between a giraffe and ISDS?" Yeah, a giraffe, you know what it is. It may as well not trigger a beer, but it was an attempt to cheer us up a little at this time of night. I will, of course, try to answer the question, and I will do so by answering four questions and then making a small conclusion. I'll try to be brief. The first question is: why is it important for us to have a free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States? It is for four reasons. Firstly, because it creates economic growth and increased exports for the benefit of Danish companies. Secondly, because it will result in lower prices for a wide range of consumer goods which are important for Danish families. Thirdly, because it is important to have a trade agreement with the United States so that the United States can be a much more important market for the European Union and for Denmark, at a time when we are really up against competition with other markets around the world and trade agreements that are being concluded, not least in South America and Asia. Finally, fourthly, we want a free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States, because it must help to ensure high standards of world trade in terms of sustainability in terms of labour rights and in terms of environmental considerations. The second question I would like to answer is: why is it so reasonable for investment protection to be included in this trade agreement? This investment protection, this ISDS mechanism, we're talking about up here as if it's a whole new animal in the revelation that we've never seen before. Yes, we do. We have seen this for the last 50 years in trade agreements. We have 37 Danish trade agreements that include investment protection. The EU has 1,400. So it is a little strange that it is now suddenly being made a very, very strange thing, that you have investment protection in trade agreements, but nevertheless that is what is happening, and that is why we are discussing it. But why is it sensible for there to be investment protection? Yes, of course because we have to secure Danish companies and other companies from among others. discrimination and discriminatory treatment in markets and against the possibility of their investments being expropriated in some way. It is, I suppose, the main concern of such an agreement, so as to ensure fair and equal conditions of competition for companies in the markets covered by a trade agreement. Moreover, because it is important that when we make trade agreements, there is a level playing field for companies in the countries that they include. The third question is: should consideration of investors and protection of investors take precedence over the right of countries to make rules themselves, to make legislation and to set higher standards? No, it should not, and Denmark and many other EU countries will never accept a trade agreement in which investment protection will be arranged in such a way. It is also in the Commission's mandate, the Commission, which is negotiating this agreement on behalf of Denmark, that the right to regulate, the right to set standards itself, the right of countries to regulate before investment protection, must be the principle. The fourth and final question I would like to answer is: is there a need for changes to the existing investment protection rules that we know about? Yes, there is, and there is a good reason for that, because, as I said, they have been in existence for 50 years, and this has also proved to be the case, we can see in some of the cases that have been raised that there is too wide a margin of interpretation which provides an inappropriate balance between the consideration of the law of the States and the ability of companies to obtain compensation. So that room needs to be narrowed in. We have also seen, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur stressed, that there has been a wide-ranging debate on this particular issue, and there have been 150,000 requests to the Commission, but the Enhedslisten's rapporteur forgot to mention that 97%. of them, or something like that, is such a thing where you have been on a website and marked in a box, and then it has gone down to the Commission. We know them well, but still. This is a matter of concern and the Commission has taken it seriously. I'll take that seriously. I also know that my fellow ministers take this seriously, and that has led, among other things, to the fact that we have not been able to do so. the debate and debate that have taken place with the European Parliament and the debate that has taken place with us ministers from the countries, that we are now working on four areas in which we want to improve the protection of investment. Like I said. Paragraph 1: We must be absolutely clear that the right to regulate takes precedence over investment protection. Paragraph 2: The composition of the arbitrations which determine these cases must be ensured so that the participants who are there, the judges who sit there, are impartial and can also be pointed out by national governments. Point 3: There must be a better link between decisions by national courts and international arbitration. Point 4: It is necessary to examine whether a form of appeal can be established after a case has been settled by ISDS. These are concerns that have been raised, and they are therefore concrete improvements that are now being worked on and that we expect the Commission to present proposals for shortly, in other words not until May. So that's how the system works. There has been a hearing that has raised a number of concerns. We take those concerns seriously. We're making improvements. Denmark is working for this, and on this basis I think it is very, very important that we in the Danish Parliament should decide to confirm our commitment, of course, to an important free trade agreement, which means growth and economic progress also for Denmark, but there must be investment protection in the trade agreement which is based on the principles I have mentioned here. Against this background, I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429001219	I thank the Minister. We shall then proceed to the debate itself, and that is first the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429001242	The fundamental problem with ISDS is that it restricts the rule of the people and democracy in favour of large companies. If the ISDS becomes part of the agreement, it may reduce the possibilities of regulating for the future in the Folketing. In the past, ISDS has been used by multinational companies to prosecute states which raised the minimum wage, which wanted to dismantle nuclear power and which, for example, wanted to change the labelling of cigarette packets. The danger is, of course, that Denmark may be affected by its legal actions in the future, in which a company pursues its own interest at the expense of a democratic decision in the interest of the Community. It could be because we in the Folketing decided to ban a dangerous substance in baby toys to take care of our children, or it could be because we would introduce social clauses into all public procurement to stop social dumping • democratic decisions that could affect the earnings of international investors. ISDS gives companies the freedom to go to special courts bypassing our national legal systems in order to defend their own narrow corporate interests against wider public interests. In the Enhedslisten, we think this is the wrong way to go. The Minister for Trade and Development has great faith in the new and so-called modern approach to ISDS, which the European Commission, following the great criticism of the consultation process, has raised. But unfortunately, this optimism is not shared by the experts. Last Friday, we had a thematic meeting on the EU-US Free Trade Agreement in the Parliament's European Committee together with the Danish MEPs. Here, researcher Lauge N. Skovgaard told Poulsen, who among others. has worked for the English Government and Danish Industry on the question of TTIP and ISDS that the so-called modern ISDS, as we have already seen, for example, in the EU-Canada agreement, has not prevented the major problems that other countries have had in the past with ISDS in other agreements. In other words, it is modern in this case old wine in new bottles, which will not prevent Denmark from being confronted with major lawsuit from multinational companies if they believe that democratic decisions made in the Folketing mean that there is a loss of their expected earnings and that therefore they demand compensation. If you listen to the public debate and indeed the Minister's speech, it may sound as if ISDS is urgently needed. Yeah, it's kind of irresponsible if ISDS doesn't come as part of the deal. I would like to take the liberty of attacking a few of the myths that unfortunately flourish in the debate on ISDS. Firstly, there is real discrimination. After all, foreign investors are granted rights that national companies do not have. It's unfair competition. Secondly, investors are already protected. For example, if you are an investor, you can take out insurance on the private market or at the World Bank. Thirdly, there is reason to worry about legal proceedings against Denmark. Sometimes it is emphasised in the debate that we already have a lot of trade agreements with ISDS mechanisms, as the Minister, among other things. I was just talking about it. That is true, but the agreements are agreements that we have with developing countries and, as everyone knows, there are very few investments from developing countries in Denmark. Investment goes the other way, and that is why we have not been hit by legal proceedings. It was Canada in return when they entered into a free trade agreement called NAFTA with the United States and Mexico. At that time it was thought in Canada that only Mexico would be affected by such lawsuit from US multinationals. The reality was that it was to a large extent Canada that was affected by these proceedings. I think it is remarkable that there are no examples of investors from Denmark or the EU having problems in the United States who could have been solved with an ISDS mechanism. This is certainly not something that I have heard at this stage about or heard produced in the debate. So there is no basis for giving these very far-reaching rights to investors. Finally, it is said that this is important for example. to be able to make an agreement with China that you have ISDS with. In this context, I would just like to point out that China precisely wants an ISDS agreement in the investment agreement negotiated between the EU and China. So that is not an argument, but perhaps a concern that could be raised in the context of the agreement with China. That is not an argument for introducing it here in the EU-US agreement. In other words, the arguments for the far-reaching consideration of investors at the expense of the people's regime are not there. On the other hand, there is a massive criticism which I think we should take seriously. We should ensure that in the future there is an opportunity to regulate for the benefit of people and the environment. That is why we have a proposal from the Enhedslisten for adoption which, with the permission of the President, I would like to read out. It reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament refers to the submission by the European Committee of the negotiating mandate to the EU-US Free Trade Agreement, which stated that the agreement should not have a negative impact on environmental and consumer standards or labour rights, urged the government to reject the inclusion of an ISDS scheme in the agreement. In addition, the Danish Parliament notes that the ISDS arrangements in other agreements have significantly reduced the right of States to regulate on everything from environmental, health and consumer standards to tax and labour rights, that the only way to guarantee the State's right to introduce laws and regulations in accordance with the public interest is by not introducing an ISDS scheme in relations with the United States, that the Commission's reformed approach to investor protection, as presented in the ISDS consultation process, does not ensure sufficient protection of the State's right to regulate and that the ISDS scheme has justified significant criticism from the trade union movement and environmental and consumer organisations on both sides of the Atlantic as well as from leading Member States, Germany and France. • V 43)
ParlaMint-DK_20150429001921	Thank you, sir. Villumsen. I would say that the read-out proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen should not run anywhere because there are brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Thomas Jensen, who is not deterred by the late hour. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429001938	No, 'cause you can get a little awake when you hear Mr. Kim. Nikolaj Villumsen's speech. I think that if you go outside Christiansborg and make such a voxpop and ask people on the street what ISDS is, no one can answer what it is. But if you go into the Parliamentary Chamber, you can ask Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, and then you can be told exactly what it is, and although there is no agreement with a clearly defined ISDS, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen stands here today and says that puha, ISDS is not something Enhedslisten wants, because Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is exactly what it is. I'd just like to ask, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen confirms here today that what has happened in the European Union so far is that there has been a great hearing, that civil society's concerns have been taken seriously, and that, as the Minister said in his speech, some areas that need to be clearly defined and clarified in the agreement to be concluded with the United States have been pinpointed, precisely to ensure that the ISDS is not something that will deprive the nation states and the European Union of the right to regulate; there are other things that need to be addressed. I'd just like to ask Mr. Knox. Nikolaj Villumsen confirm here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002053	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002056	Thank you. And thank you for the question. I can fully confirm that there has been a hearing and that the European Commission has said that it is now going to work on a modern model. The modern model was then incorporated into the agreement recently concluded between the EU and Canada, and this is the modernised model on which the experts included. Last Friday at the meeting we had on this subject in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe said that it would not secure us against the lawsuit of multinational companies who are tired, not from being expropriated, but from missing out on the expected earnings they could have obtained. And that's what worries me. It gives me cause for concern that we will be able to face legal proceedings similar to what we do, for example. has seen Germany met when the Swedish energy giant demanded compensation because it had decided to phase out nuclear power in Germany. I believe that this is a democratic decision which should not be allowed to be implemented as a multinational company, but which one has the right to make as an elected parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002202	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002206	Oh, you would sometimes wish you could force a rapporteur like Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen to sit down to read on something in which he was then heard, so that we should not stand here and listen to, yes, half truths from the Parliament's platform. There's a process going on. We have heard from the European Union that the criticism about ISDS is being met, and it has been said that there are four specific areas, as the Minister also explained in his speech today, which will continue to be discussed. In other words, there is no fixed ISDS, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen can play ball in this Chamber today. There is a process going on, and I think that a young man like Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen should take an active part in the process and help to ensure that we have our rights protected here in political Denmark and in political Europe, so it is we who decide the regulation in Europe and in the nation states, and so that it is not some foreign companies that should come and decide what regulation should be here. That is precisely what a broad majority in this Parliament adopted less than a year ago in a motion for a resolution in this Chamber, and that is what will happen today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002320	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002324	The problem is precisely that what the European Commission has come up with does not respond to the criticism. In other words, when you write the same wording that gives the same legal rights as have been used in other agreements to make exactly these actions, you do not respond to the criticism. It's not just something I'm saying. This is something on which, for example, we in Parliament's Committee on Europe have received letters today from various Danish NGOs who have written that they also have that concern. This is the concern that can still be seen to be massively out there in Europe, which means that in the last few weeks we have had one committee after another in the European Parliament, which has decided that the ISDS should get out of the trade agreement. And I should like to say that the Enhedslisten does not have a majority in these committees in the European Parliament. So the situation is that I've actually gotten into it. Against this background, I have, together with my colleague Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten called for this debate so that we can take an active position and interfere in the debate in the Danish Parliament and in this context call for us to do the same as the Austrian Parliament, which has the view that the ISDS should get out of the agreement. It is therefore a constructive way of interfering in a debate when we do so on the basis of something that is actually going on in other countries too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002442	I cannot rule out the fact that my patience with regard to the violation of speaking time has been greatly reduced at this time of day, but for the time being I shall remain calm and pass on the floor to Mr Lalor. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002455	Thank you for that, President. I understand there are some concerns about this dispute resolution mechanism, and I recognise that, and we are also listening to them. But I think it is being painted up as a very large and very evil animal with large horns, which may not be entirely justified. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen suggests that this provision should be completely deleted. Is it completely out of the question, in the rapporteur's view, to design it here in such a way that both states and companies can create a dispute settlement mechanism which benefits both parties? Is there only one choice, and that is that it has to go out? Can't you imagine a way to design this thing that makes sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002544	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002547	First of all, it is important to remember in these models that this is something that gives rights to companies, not to states. States cannot sue any company on the basis of the ISDS mechanism. On the other hand, it is companies that can sue us here in Denmark, for example, if you think you have missed out on expected profits. Can you make a deal without ISDS? Yeah, you can do that. An agreement has been made between the United States and Australia which does not have an ISDS mechanism because Australia said it did not want to have it. So, of course, you can make these agreements without the ISDS mechanism. What is important to note is that an ISDS mechanism is a very, very far-reaching right that you give to investors, where it is not just that you come and expropriate them, but where you can claim money for expected loss of earnings if, for example, you legislate for something here in the Folketing, it is about environmental protection or consumer rights that you then think you are losing money on as a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002651	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002654	But the premise of what Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen says, of course, that you have not learned anything from the bad experiences that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen also refers to, and which has been around the world with this kind of dispute settlement mechanism. Now mankind is gradually becoming wiser, at least in most places, so one must assume that one has learned something from these mistakes and, in this way, builds on it. And what I asked you about I recognize that this is an advanced time was just not
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002732	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002735	I cannot be satisfied by giving large companies very, very far-reaching rights to sue countries for democratic decisions. And you actually get smarter around. For example, a place where you have become wiser is in Australia. There was a problem encountered with a lawsuit from Philip Morris because they wanted to make some major markings on the cigarette packets that smoking was unhealthy. Against this background, one has been tired of ISDS and therefore one has refused to make an ISDS mechanism in the agreement later made with the United States. This is, of course, a good example of some becoming wiser, and I think that lessons should be learnt from the experience that Australians have done exactly with the ISDS and not to include it in the EU-US free trade agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002819	Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002824	I think it is probably the case that we all share the concern, or at least agree, that there are things that need to be negotiated and that lessons are also drawn from the experience that exists in other places that have dispute settlement systems in the context of trade agreements. But isn't that how I ask Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen states that it is precisely the Commission's intention to negotiate a solution so that the countries in a wide range of areas will have the freedom of political regulation, so that it cannot be the subject of an action for damages, for example. Have policy developments taken place in the field of health, the environment or any other area? And would it not take away a great deal of the concern if it were explicitly stated that it could not be the subject of legal proceedings that such legislation had taken place in one of the Member States?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002920	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429002924	But the problem is precisely that the European Commission takes exactly the same legal texts and wordings into the modern version they produce, as has been seen in other treaties, where this has led to these legal proceedings. After all, it is noble to state that we must have the right to regulate. You can have a statement of intent on that. You can write that into it. But if, in the legal wording, these rights are granted to companies, then these rights are granted to companies. That is what has led to other actions in other cases. This is, for example, in relation to cigarette labelling legislation. That is where I ask: why should we give companies these rights? Why give them the right to sue the state of Denmark if they think that they are missing out on expected profits because we are improving conditions for consumers at home or for the environment or for that matter for workers? It is simply a right that I do not want to give international companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003033	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003035	So let me ask in another way: if that right is not given to them in the dispute settlement mechanism that ends up being established, will it not please the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003051	The debate has just been convened today because we have this concern. It is a concern shared by civil society Denmark, a concern shared in many parts of Europe and, in particular, in the United States. There is no doubt that if you take out the ISDS mechanism, and if we on the part of the Danish Parliament today recommend it, it would be an extremely positive step. Then we would be a parliament in the ranks of other parliaments in Europe, where we have seen the Austrian Parliament most clearly decide that the ISDS mechanism should be removed from the EU-US free trade agreement. I hope that this can be the result of today's debate, and I think it would be extremely positive if the Conservatives would support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003133	Then it's mr. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003139	I do agree with the Enhedslisten in all its concerns. What I just want to ask is whether it is not important for the Enhedslisten that Denmark is working to ensure that there are no restrictions on the level of protection, that the precautionary principle is not weakened, and that we have an agreement that respects the right of the Member States and the European Union to maintain and develop the level of protection in legitimate areas, for example. the environment, health, consumer protection and workers' rights? Isn't that what Enhedslisten means?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003216	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003220	There is no doubt that it is extremely important to ensure these levels of protection, and it is on that basis that we want the ISDS mechanism to be removed from the agreement precisely so that we can ensure it. I think it is very important when we are discussing something like this also a little on the basis of what Mr. Thomas Jensen, earlier on, to intervene actively in the debate, to try to contribute constructively to the debate that is taking place in Europe right now, and to say quite clearly what you want. In other words, there is a very great danger that the European Commission will not hear clearly what you want if you do not say so. That is why we are calling for us to adopt today that we do not think there should be an ISDS mechanism in this EU-US free trade agreement if we do not want it to be there. For that is the only way we can ensure that these levels of protection in the future are something that we are allowed to legislate on the basis of in the Folketing, without being able to face legal proceedings from large companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003321	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003323	That sounds strange to me, because what I read out was the proposal for adoption we made last year in the Danish Parliament. I know that the Enhedslisten did not support it, but I understand that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen agrees with the substance and that is what this is about. These are also the examples, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen uses to explain how wrong it is with ISDS. I just think that the Enhedslisten must decide whether or not to work to ensure that it is not as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen fears. That's what we're discussing here in Parliament... what we're going to work for... and that's what this debate is supposed to be for, so we can avoid getting into a situation like that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen describes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003407	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003410	Frankly, I believe that it is also important to make it clear that there must be limits to naivety. The problem with the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Steen Gade is now sitting and referring to the fact that we still have the situation that we had our Minister for Development and Trade on the platform a short time ago, where he said it was important that we had these rights in the ISDS mechanism of this trade agreement. It is precisely the ISDS mechanism for which there is a great deal of concern and for which I and the Enhedslisten want to be removed from this agreement. And if we want some to understand it in the world, we have to say it quite clearly. Fortunately, others are doing so right now in the Austrian Parliament, as the Dutch and French parliaments wanted. Why not adopt it here in Denmark, not least on the basis that we can actually see that the SF, both in the European Parliament and with their EU rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsens, criticism has been made of it very strongly? So let us decide that we want it to be taken out. I simply do not understand if the SF cannot support the very banal demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003516	Then it's Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003520	Now it is evident that some want to have an ISDS if the ISDS is filled with guarantees of continued opportunities to regulate, while others regardless of guarantees do not want it. Well, I understand that Enhedslisten doesn't want ISDS, no matter what it looks like. Then that is what we need to get here instead of discussing what it really is. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen started by saying that I actually think it was a mistake, but let me just clarify that the things that the Commission has now chosen to look at after the hearing, the things that will be protected further by wordings to be included in the agreement, were already included in the agreement with Canada. I didn't get it that way. I would actually like to clarify here whether we have actually understood the messages from the European Union in the same way. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003638	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003641	Thank you. Well, there have been reports that you wanted a new modern ISDS mechanism. The situation is that this is what has been inserted into the EU-Canada agreement. And that's not something I'm just saying, but something that an expert, for example, claimed the other day in the Parliament's European Committee when we had a theme discussion about this. It was said that it was precisely the same rules that have been in previous agreements that have led to such legal proceedings that have led to so much debate, because it has been seen that democratic decisions taken in national parliaments have been met with legal action from companies which felt that their expected profits were at risk and that they would thus be compensated. I just don't think we should get involved in that. I think it would be really stupid for us to have problems in future parliamentary assemblies with legislation on better protection of people and the environment, because it will simply cost us in the form of legal proceedings from large companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003743	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003746	In other words, let there be no doubt that we too, on the part of the Radical Left, want that protection, of course we want it. But at the end of the day we do not know what this is going to look like, so we are very, very aware of the need to ensure these guarantees. However, I think it is actually wrong that the agreement made with Canada is exactly the same as what you are working on right now. In fact, you sit in the Commission and work on something that goes further in protecting precisely the various options to ensure that we can regulate further in the countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003832	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003834	Thank you. I think it is good to hear that the Radicals are also concerned, because I think there is really, really good reason for this. It is, of course, positive if it is the case that the European Commission wants to tighten up even more. The problem is, of course, that what we are basically talking about is giving some companies rights, not giving states rights, but giving companies the rights to ask for compensation if national legislation would go beyond their expected earnings. And you can't give it a right to say after that, and then we'll be allowed to regulate exactly the way you know without you being able to sue us. Because then you haven't given it a right. That is where not only I, but also experts and civil society, have this concern and say that we should just take this out, as other parliaments have also called for. I really think it would be good to send out the clear message from the Folketing today that we want the European Commission to do so. Not least if they are able to move, it is good to have a clear message from the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003936	That, as far as I can see, was the last brief remark made by Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen. So we say thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen and gives the floor to the next rapporteur, who is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr Villumsen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, who has been ready for a long time but now has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429003950	Thank you very much for that, President. I was very eager before. After all, this is an advanced time, but here we are again having the same debate as 11 months ago, and the Left still believes that a free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States contains a wide range of interesting perspectives. Not only do economic analyses show that an agreement will mean growth, real wage increases, lower prices for consumers and, above all, new export jobs in both Denmark and the rest of the EU and the United States. Specifically, the agreement is expected to increase exports by up to 25 billion. kr. and generate up to 14,000 jobs in Denmark. It's jobs that we can probably agree that we want and need. So these perspectives are also important when we debate the issue of investment protection, on which Enhedslisten has called for debate today. Something's happened since we last stood here. After all, the Commission has chosen to freeze this part of the negotiations, the ISDS negotiations, in order to hold a public hearing. And we recognize, as I said in my question to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen before, in the Left, that there has been criticism. The result of this hearing was that the Commission received 150,000 responses. That sounds like a lot of people, but the 145,000 answers or 97%. were mass-produced consultation responses from the electronic platforms of interest groups. All contained the same prefabricated negative responses. I really think that it also provides a little food for thought on how to want the political debate to take place and how to influence it. But some of the criticism has also been factual, and we must listen to it. So I am pleased to note that Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström is working on various models for making the dispute resolution mechanism even better and more precise. We do not yet know what the Commission is going to propose to the Council. We will know that in the coming week, as I recall, but in the Left we are at least backing the Commissioner's preliminary ideas on guaranteeing the right to regulate. For us, it would be a good model to include an article in the text which states precisely that governments are free to pursue public policy and they can choose the level of protection they consider appropriate. In addition, it is interesting to look at a clause which says that investors are not guaranteed a constant level of regulation, because it addresses Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's concern. It's basically just common sense. So I just have to repeat what I said 11 months ago. In the Left, we do not believe that a dispute resolution mechanism should, as a starting point, give rise to a great deal of concern. So I would warn against the fact that the debate on investment protection ends up shadowing the many benefits that such a free trade agreement between Europe and the United States can bring. So let me finally make it clear that, no, companies should not pressure national parliaments to adapt their legislation in a certain way. Moreover, they do not, and this is not properly supported by the 40 years of history we have had in Danish agreements with an ISDS mechanism. No, the Left does not support Enhedslisten's criticism that the Commission has not listened to the concerns of ISDS. On the contrary, we are very pleased that the Commission is working to ensure that the issue will be addressed directly in the text of the agreement. So there is no reason to fear that a trade agreement with investment protection, with a dispute settlement mechanism, will mean that, as a country, we will be bombarded with legal action every time we introduce new legislation, such as the United Kingdom. intend to protect the environment or improve public health. I am actually more concerned that we are now seeing more examples of politicians being bombarded with automatic spam mails from left-wing fellow runners when there is something that one disagrees with. Such an approach has the potential to undermine the entire democratic political debate. So let us negotiate an agreement with the United States which ensures a fair balance between the need to protect companies' investments and the legitimate right of EU Member States to draft future legislation, while taking into account the environment, health and consumer protection. I see this as an affordable and realistic task which should not stand in the way of our overall interest in an ambitious trade agreement. With the permission of the President, I shall therefore read a proposal for adoption aloud on behalf of the Left, the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government, in accordance with its negotiating instructions and the V 45 of 2013-14, to work towards the conclusion of an ambitious free trade agreement between the EU and the United States (TTIP). The Danish Parliament takes note of the Minister's statement that sustainability principles will be included in the agreement, trade facilitations between the EU and the United States will not be achieved through restrictions on the level of protection and the precautionary principle enshrined in the Treaty, as well as the government's ability to provide or support public services will not be weakened. The Folketing takes note of the outcome of the Commission's public consultation on a dispute settlement mechanism for investment cases in TTIP. The Danish Parliament expresses the need for further improvements to the mechanism of EU investment protection agreements and welcomes the fact that intensive work is now being done on this. Parliament calls on the government to continue to work actively to ensure that civil society's criticism of the mechanism is met so that it respects the EU and the Member States' right to maintain and develop the level of protection in legitimate policy areas such as environment, health, consumer protection and labour rights. • V 44). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004606	Thank you. And that is also part of the further debate. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004619	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. What I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, is why the Left really wants there to be this ISDS mechanism in the agreement. The reason why I am asking is that many other countries have had bad experiences with it. We spoke earlier in the debate on Australia, for example, and Canada has also had problems with it. Why do you even have that in this deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004649	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004652	Thank you for that question, because that is actually the whole reason why the debate is here. Why do we have to bring this? We in the Left believe that it is a good idea to have companies have access to complaining and to get compensation at the extreme if they are deprived of rights. They have it directly by such a mechanism. It is not automatically the case that a company wins a trial. I heard Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen said before that he would not give companies the opportunity to sue states. How democratic! Excuse me, but if you inflict a loss on someone, he must be allowed to try his case in some body, and that is what we are aiming for here. We would also very much like to admit that there are some bad experiences, and let us at last learn from the bad experiences, so that we do something to counter the criticism that has been raised here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004741	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004744	It is clear that you can go to a national court and sue, but an ISDS mechanism is precisely a special court to which you give companies the right to go, not the Member States the right to go, but companies the right to go, not if they are expropriated, but if they think that they are missing out on expected profits because they are making a regulation, for example, adopted in a parliament or another national parliament. It is, after all, a very, very far-reaching right, like Canada, with which Australia, with which other civilised countries have had major problems. Why put it into the agreement, why put so far-reaching rights into the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004824	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004826	I do not, in fact, agree that it is a far-reaching right to give some people a right of appeal. That's bullshit! You allow some to have their point of view tested against a state, and it is not a court, it is an arbitration, and so it is not a court. This is next to the court system. That is why a special dispute settlement mechanism is being set up outside the judicial system. And there is no question of that; that is the way in which companies make agreements, that is the way in which companies resolve disputes. To a large extent this is done in the private world, so why on earth can't you do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004904	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429004905	Thank you. I would like to try to drill a little bit into the approach that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has to deal with people who are critical of such an agreement. I'm surprised, because we're not gonna get an analysis of this if no one asks the questions. The same is true of Mr. Thomas Jensen, but I'll take that after. To the question of mass-produced consultation: if you are going to protest about something and shout the EU, you are going to make a petition. It's perfectly natural. It is even built into the structure of the European Union that it can be done, in other words, collect signatures. It must even be the same text in all countries before they even want to listen to it. I think this is a very negative expression, because it is the opportunity that individuals have to express their opinion across borders. The second is that it was supposed to be the left-wing runners who did these things. I do not know, but fellow runners are certainly not a positive expression in my dictionary. Could we not try to find a language that expresses that there are many opinions about this that need to be broken, let us try to discuss it? Instead of playing smarter or arrogant or being mad at those who protest against it, could we not have a dialogue about it? I would urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005019	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005023	I fully agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that one should enter into a dialogue. However, the mass production of 145,000 identical consultation responses does not seem to me to be a sensible way of engaging in dialogue. In the extreme, it could be imagined that those who have the most means to engage in the kind of dialogue, as Mr. Christian Juhl apparently advocates here, should have more right to be heard. We have dealt in the past with Unhedslisten's not so good friends from Goldman Sachs. Surely they can afford to hire a lot of people to send such consultation answers. Mr. Christian Juhl saw that whoever has the most money to hire the most people to send most of the same-sounding answers is the one to be heard most? Or should those who provide a fairly versatile and intelligent input be allowed to be heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005121	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005124	Goldman Sachs has to do what they think is right. I can see what they're doing. However, if there are 145 000 individuals in Europe who are nervous about this and want to express it to the Commission and the European Parliament, it is only natural that you should put your name under and send it away. I do not think there is anything awkward about that. But I just think that language is like saying: well, that's just some, so we can't discuss it with them. However, I would like to ask a question about the content: do companies need new special rights, or is it okay with the rights that they have in the countries or in the European Union? Can't they use them, and aren't they covered well enough by them? What is the reason for building a new mechanism? Because when we talk about that mechanism and about the fact that there are some problems, we do so even in the proposal for adoption, where there are problems. Why on earth should we have it if there is already an opportunity for them to appeal against unfair treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005221	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005223	Various issues are raised, but let me take the last one. You have to have this in order to have a forum specifically addressing these challenges. If every time we meet something that has challenges in it, we say that then we cannot use it for anything and that we have to stop having anything to do with it, then it will certainly not be so late in the Chamber in the future, I shall say hello. Let us be open then, let us listen to the experience that has been gained and say: let us improve this. Well, that's kind of what we're going to do. Let us make an improved dispute resolution mechanism so that we avoid the mistakes that have been made in the past. For us, it is not religious to have this dispute resolution mechanism with us. We would like it to be included, but we do not want the whole agreement to fall if it is only about this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005320	Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, because there are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005326	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising this debate on the formulation of the trade agreement between the EU and the United States. And, in particular, thank you for focusing on the part that concerns investor protection. It is important that we take the debate to put an end to myths and misunderstandings. The Minister has already given a thorough account of the government's position in this matter, but as Social Democratic rapporteur I would nevertheless like to make a number of comments on the issue of investor protection. After all, the Socialists' wish with a trade agreement is to preserve and improve prosperity and prosperity in Denmark, and to fulfil that wish, and we must improve the framework for trade between the European Union and the United States. The challenge, of course, is that, as the country now stands, there are barriers to trade between the European Union and the United States, and some barriers are necessary, while other barriers are unnecessary. The necessary barriers are about guaranteeing the right to maintain and develop legislation that safeguards our level of protection in the fields of the environment, health and consumer protection and the protection of workers' rights, and we would like to maintain those barriers. The unnecessary barriers are the only ones that are detrimental to trade and that do not affect the level of protection, and we would like to help remove them. These were the initial general comments on a trade agreement, but now it is not the first time that trade agreement is being discussed here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and this is also something that is being debated extensively in the European Committee, and that is a good thing, because we need to achieve an agreement that, on the one hand, secures our companies' investments in the United States, and, on the other hand, ensures that we in Denmark and in the European Union secure our regulation against undermining the trade agreement. It is therefore gratifying that the European Commission has listened to the scepticism expressed and has sent the part of the trade agreement that we are discussing today, namely investor protection, to public consultation. Many consultation responses have been received and it is good that I should not interfere in the discussion on how they have arrived and in the follow-up report after the hearing the Commission notes that there are four areas where, in relation to the European-Canadian Trade Agreement model, there is a need for further work and clarification to find satisfactory solutions to the key issues of investor protection. The four issues which the Commission will work to clarify are as follows: the first is that the right of States to regulate cannot be affected or restricted by investor protection. The second is that the establishment and functioning of the arbitration tribunals ensure that they are impartial and independent of private interests. The third is to ensure a balance between national courts and an international investment charge so that democratic deficits are eliminated. And the fourth and last thing the Commission is looking at is that we should examine whether an appeal body could be set up, where possible erroneous decisions from an arbitration tribunal could be dealt with. Following on from the thorough work of the European Commission, I find this proposal for adoption which the rapporteur of the Left recently read out quite comprehensively for the position of the Folketing, namely that the Folketing expresses the need for further improvements in the mechanism of EU investment protection agreements, and I welcome the fact that intensive work is now being done on it. With the scepticism that has been expressed in the public debate, it is important to me that we have a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament who listens to the concerns of the people and the desire for a trade agreement for the benefit of Denmark, for the benefit of Danish democracy, for the benefit of Danish companies, for the benefit of Danish citizens, also when they are consumers and when they are employees. In the text of the adoption, which was read out by the rapporteur of the Left, we write, and I quote: the Danish Parliament calls on the government to continue to work actively to ensure that civil society's criticism of the mechanism is met, so that it respects the EU and the Member States' right to maintain and develop the level of protection in legitimate policy areas such as the environment, health, consumer protection and labour rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005813	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005820	Thank you for that and thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. As I said in my opening speech to the debate, there have been critical voices from social democrats here at home. There have been Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen and Christel Schaldemose, but we have also seen it from the European trade union movement. For example, there has been a call from the International LO and from the public sector in Europe • a joint request • and also from the US LO, which made a joint request to the European Commission, calling for the ISDS to come out of the agreement. Does it not impress the Socialists at home that there is so much criticism from the European trade union movement and from the American trade union movement at this very ISDS point, and should not the Socialists back up the criticism and ask for the ISDS mechanism to be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005920	Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429005921	I think that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen should be pleased that we have just listened to the criticism. And by listening to the criticism, by the fact that the Danish Trade Minister, Mogens Jensen, has, together with socialist European colleagues, pressed for something to happen, that we should have clarified some things in relation to this matter, it shows that democracy works in such a way that active politicians listen and ensure that regulation is brought to where society, including social democratic politicians and the trade union movement in Europe, can better reflect itself in the regulation that hopefully will end up being the result. That is why I would like to say that I think it is working very well. We don't have a fixed ISDS, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen can play ball up. Something is being created, and it is precisely in the text of the proposal for adoption that we have put forward here today by many parties, that we want to have a guarantee that these four things on which the Commission is focusing will be ensured so that we have a better ISDS than has been seen in the past. I do not understand Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, that because there are some early ISDS agreements that have not been good enough, you just have to reject it here in ISDS, which we are shaping, between the EU and the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010052	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010053	Sir. Thomas Jensen says that what we do must be decisive. I really agree with that. However, would it not be decisive if we, on the part of the Danish Parliament, supported the many committees in the European Parliament which have adopted proposals to demand that the ISDS mechanism be removed from the agreement in recent weeks? In other words, when we see one EU committee after another, where there are Socialist Members of the European Parliament calling for the ISDS mechanism to be removed, why not demand the same from Parliament today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010134	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010136	Because I'm a Social Democrat. And the political DNA you have as a social democrat makes it that if there is something you think is not good enough, you are working to improve it. And you only end up supporting it if it has become such a character that you can vouch for it. I could not, as a Social Democrat, reject an ISDS on which we have not seen the final form. After all, these are rather strong and clear statements from the European Commission that we want to work to create an ISDS that is far better than that, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is talking about here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010219	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010222	Thank you. - Sir... Thomas Jensen does not understand that it is no wonder that one gets critical and suspicious when it happens in the order in which it all starts with some very closed negotiations, which some object to, and then they get a little opened up and you start discussing things, and then when you start discussing the content of things, you see that the ISDS mechanism is problematic, and then the Danish Parliament and a lot of popular organisations also say critically about it, and then you say: Well, well, I think we should change that. In other words, in most of my adult life we have seen that process in the European Union time and again, and every time we have lost rights in Danish democracy. And that is why I have a natural scepticism when you see great capable leaders doing it that way. Mr. Thomas Jensen, it is strange that you have a critical approach to and scepticism about such processes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010322	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010324	A critical approach to such things is always healthy, and that is also what the Commission has had to recognise: that civil society in Europe has been critical of this. The process, as Mr. Christian Juhl calls a closed process, has then been opened up. The Commission has received a hearing reply. And I think this is a fine example of how there are democratic improvements in this. But I cannot understand the approach of Enhedslisten, where, when we do not know where the ISDS ends in its substance, that is whether the Commission comes ashore with these four areas of improvement, we stand up in the Parliamentary Chamber in Denmark today and just say that it should be rejected and thrown out. I don't understand. I thought Enhedslisten was a party. At least that's what you used to say... that was working on improvements, but in this case, it seems that you're only working to reject things. I do not think that is very constructive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010428	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010430	But isn't it a little defensive to say, okay, we want this mechanism? I do not understand why you want it, because it is companies vis-à-vis states. It must surely be the case that companies are at all times subordinate to the laws of States. Surely it cannot be the case that we are going into a new global development where states and businesses are equal. I simply cannot understand that. That is why the rules of the Member States and, in this case, of the European Union must be used to regulate them. You don't need a new device to adjust it. That's what I don't understand at all. What is it that makes a social democrat even need a regulatory mechanism? It is not for social democrats to defend the interests of multinationals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010515	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010517	As a Social Democrat, I am interested in establishing a trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. This will be of great benefit to the prosperity of Europe, including in Denmark, and it is also a condition that we must distribute to good welfare here in Denmark. Specifically with regard to ISDS, Enhedslisten always talks about companies as such something terrible. But, for example, we have to. Try to see what might be of Danish companies that might be interested in this? After all, Danish companies operate in the United States. They must also be protected in that market. And what kind of companies could that be? Can it, for example? Is it the Danish employees' pension funds that have a lot of interests and place a lot of money in the United States? Mr. Christian Juhl not that it would be appropriate for Danish employees also to have a guarantee that they cannot be discriminated against, expropriated on the American market? I think so now. I work for the interests of employees, and Mr. Christian Juhl then make up for himself if he does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010616	That was the last brief remark made by Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, and that also means that Mr. Thomas Jensen is finished this time. Then we will pass on the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Hans Kristian Skibby for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429010629	Thank you. It is now almost an hour since the Minister of Trade began discussions on this question. It was something about the Minister's thinking that it should be a little funny. I do not really think that the joke was particularly bad about the difference between a giraffe and ISDS. Now it's been an hour, and I was thinking that at home we have a book called "Girafsprog" and my wife is a teacher, and there are many educators who read that book. Maybe more people know it? It's actually a book that illustrates something with giraffes and something about listening and understanding. A giraffe has a big heart, and a giraffe also has an overview. It may have something to do with height, you might say. Perhaps, if I am to be a little critical, and to return to the agenda, I think that the overview is running a little bit, especially on the question of the timing of this question. Firstly, I would like to say that it is not long ago that we had the debate and, secondly, that we should also show understanding for the negotiations that are being held in order to secure a very good agreement, which also benefits Danish industry and Danish opportunities to get more people employed. I believe that the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned that only the Danish figures estimate that up to 14 000 new jobs can be created in Denmark, and in fact across the EU it is estimated that hundreds of thousands of jobs can be created if you get a really good free trade agreement. In fact, I think that the proposal for adoption that we have agreed to in this area illustrates quite well what I think is quite fundamental in it. It is precisely that we make it clear that the principles of sustainability are not forgotten. That is precisely one of the fundamental elements of this proposal for adoption. We specify what we do not want to compromise on. It is also apparent from the fact that the agreement is not achieved through reductions in the level of protection in the various policy areas that have also been discussed here in the last hour, i.e. the environment, health, consumer protection and workers' rights. There are a large number of places where things, I think, are illustrated quite sensibly and wisely. So I might think that Enhedslisten should be allowed to have a critical approach to it. I think we should have that too, and I also think that what is in this joint motion for a resolution is that the Folketing takes the criticism to heart. Maybe you should just be a little less distrustful when you look at the other people's agenda. Well, I think you're a little suspicious when you assess whether what we really want is good for Denmark and Danish interests. I think that Enhedslisten should try to put on those glasses instead and see what this could actually have as a whole consequences for Denmark and the citizens who live here. We think that must be the basics. As I have said, we are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Giscard d'Estaing on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, on behalf of the Left, and of course we intend to vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011003	Thank you, and there are at least a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011010	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that one should be less suspicious. I would like to quote another member of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Messers Regering was before the last European Parliament elections where he was a bit suspicious. He said it's ridiculous. Politicians are set in the world to make the policy on which they are elected, and if you give the opportunity to replace politicians with new rules, then it is the same as giving an assurance against democracy. Against this background, he said to the magazine NOTAT that the Danish People's Party was opposed to an ISDS mechanism, an EU-US free trade agreement. Is it Morten Messerschmidt who says something nonsense, or is it the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party today who says something nonsense?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011100	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011101	Well, I almost said that the questioner must decide for himself what the Enhedslisten approach should be. I tell you what is the policy of the Danish People's Party, and that is that we think we should wait for the things that lie. We think it makes sense for us to think about these things. I think it is reasonable that what is happening with the majority in this Parliament today is a proposal for adoption which actually recognises some of the criticisms that have been made. Then I think we should also take stock of the fact that this is not a fast-track agreement. In fact, this is a process that is under way, and I also think that we politicians owe it to each other to await some results from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011146	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011146-2	Thank you. If the position of the Danish People's Party to be positive about an ISDS mechanism is reasonable, was the position of the Danish People's Party before the last European Parliament elections, where the candidate for the Danish People's Party was against an ISDS mechanism so unreasonable? And why didn't the Danish People's Party tell the voters at that time that it was an unreasonable position that the leading candidate for the Danish People's Party had?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011219	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011220	I think the rapporteur should ask the person who has said these things. It is not something I can stand here at half past two in the night and tell about in the Assembly Hall. I believe that what must be the starting point must be the situation we are in now, and that is that there is a process in which we are negotiating what is specifically to be included in a joint agreement to ensure increased employment and growth and healthy jobs in Europe and, moreover, trade with some of our good friends in other countries. I think that must be the fundamental thing to focus on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011253	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011256	Thank you. I have visited and followed the situation in Colombia quite a lot over the last four years. After all, the European Union has made a trade agreement between the European Union, Colombia and Peru. I have done so especially because I have good friends in the trade union movement and among the indigenous peoples and the small farmers over there. In that negotiation agreement there is a mechanism to ensure that social considerations were taken into account in society in the same way as trade considerations. Now the trade agreement has been in force for almost three years and the social dimension has not yet been phased in and they still ask: do you know what is happening on the part of the European Union, when will we get the consultation body, when will we have the rights we should have as popular organisations in our country? I can't answer that because I have no idea. I've been asking here and there and everywhere. Is it weird that you get a little suspicious then? The rapporteur himself could, of course, reflect on his own personal experience with the European Union, for example. There will then be some suspicion of such supranational organizations and agreements when promises are made without their being respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011411	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011412	I am well aware that Mr. Christian Juhl has many good friends in Colombia, because we have had other dialogues about that both here in the Folketing and outside the Chamber too, but that does not enable me to answer the questions about Colombia that the questioner has. What I am dealing with is what we are dealing with at the moment, and it is, after all, a question debate about something a little different from what Christian Juhl begins to do when he mentions Colombia.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011445	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011446	It's exactly the same! It was the rapporteur who talked about not having to be suspicious. I do not understand why an ISDS is being pursued, because if it is not in the agreement, it is just a trade agreement, and then we must use the existing mechanisms to get our right as a company. If you got the rights that have now been incorporated by the government and others into that statement, then what are you going to use it for? Then there are not the rights of the multinationals anyway, and then you might as well say: let us skip the ISDS, and then let us settle for what is left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011527	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011528	Well, I don't think we should skip the bottom line. In fact, I think we should go to find the very best solution, including in relation to Danish interests, and that is to ensure that there is proper access, also for those who are in a legal squeeze, those who need to have a dispute tried. It is precisely as has been said earlier that it is possible to raise these arbitration cases, for example, where the ordinary legal system, bypasses courts and so on, and it must of course also be the case that companies can have their complaints tested if they think they have been wrongly treated in different countries. One of the other countries, as I know Mr. Christian Juhl has a great interest in Venezuela, and I know that a company like EK has been trying for years to get their funds, which they have served legally in the country, pulled out of Venezuela, but it was not something that Hugo Chávez was particularly receptive to think was particularly sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011629	That was the last brief remark made to Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby. Nor do we know what country we had come to next, so perhaps it is the right time to move on. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lone Loklindt from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429011650	We continue without regret, even though it is now a little late. However, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for again this year bringing about this ISDS enquiry debate or what consequences an investor-state dispute resolution mechanism could have for Denmark. After all, the negotiations on an investment and free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States, the so-called TTIP, are running at a high level. I understand that the issue of ISDS is of concern to both civil society and businesses. The Commission understood that too, and that is precisely why the negotiations were put on hold in this area while a public hearing was held. There were 150,000 consultation responses, and the 145,000 were apparently very similar, but there were also very nuanced hearings which made an impression and which prompted the Swedish Commissioner, Cecilia Malmström, to propose different models to respond to the great criticism. We have already heard about them via the Minister for Development, but I must also come back to them. When we are radically in favour of a free trade agreement with the United States, it is because we want to improve the opportunities for trade between the European Union and the United States, while ensuring that trade takes place on the basis of high standards of products and of sustainability. These standards will also have an impact on global standards for trade. This also applies to investor protection, because it is also in the interest of Danish companies to protect themselves against discriminatory treatment and to secure their investments. This is true in the United States, but it is also true in other countries. At the same time, of course, we have also been radically concerned that an agreement should not reduce our level of protection, for example in the environmental field, or, for that matter, undermine our freedom to continue to regulate both environmental legislation and other legislation. The critical issues on which the Commission is now working in depth are how to ensure that the right of States to regulate is not restricted by investment protection. This suggests that such clauses can be entered in the agreement. And how can impartial arbitration tribunals be secured? Yes, there are selected independent arbitrators, just as there are appeals with a uniform interpretation across borders. And then there is the question of the relationship between national courts and arbitration courts. If good solutions can be found on these issues, so that we retain the right to regulate, while ensuring investors against unspeakable and discriminatory treatment by the states, then I think we can get an acceptable agreement. But, of course, it is far too early to say now. Many negotiations are going on and, fortunately, there is more openness about the negotiations than there has been in the past. It seems that the Commission's transparency initiative makes a difference. I would like to say radically that it is very important for us with this proposal for adoption that has been put forward, calling on the government to continue to work actively to ensure that civil society's criticism of the mechanism is met so that it respects the EU and the Member States' right to maintain and develop the level of protection in legitimate policy areas such as the environment, health, consumer protection and labour rights. And that is why, of course, the Radical Left is the proposal for adoption which we hope will be endorsed by the whole parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012051	There are also a few brief comments here, and we start with Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012057	Thank you. What I would like to hear from the radical rapporteur is how exactly one intends to retain the right to regulate when one wants to give companies assurances against being able to lose earnings due to regulation. It is precisely the regulation that can lead to companies losing money that they expected to earn and for which they are allowed to go to the ISDS mechanism and demand compensation. How, then, can we maintain the right to regulate?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012133	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012135	After all, we have not seen the Commission's final proposal. As far as I am aware, there is a presentation of it on 7 May. We have been informed that a clause can be included saying that investors are not guaranteed a constant level of regulation, and this can accommodate the argument that States can be sued when the regulatory environment changes. I am not a lawyer and certainly not an EU lawyer, but what Commissioner Cecilia Malmström says that work is being done is positive, and that is what I expect to succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012236	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012236-2	Thank you. Well, when I have this concern, it's because we've seen a dozen cases of ISDS mechanisms where countries have been confronted with these lawsuit. Then, of course, one can have a great hope that it can be completely different. I just find it hard to see how to give those rights and that insurance against regulation without hitting the possibility of regulating. But can the radical rapporteur actually mention one example of Danish companies or EU companies having problems with investments they have made in the United States, which can be solved with such an ISDS mechanism? For me, there are no examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012321	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012322	I do not know any examples either, but that does not mean that there are no examples, I would say. But we have of course needed ISDS mechanisms in other countries where Denmark has had cases, I know in both Algeria and Egypt. Now the United States cannot be equated with the two countries, including their legal systems, but I think that the criticism and scepticism with regard to the existing ISDS systems is entirely justified. However, when we have a radical hope that this regulation will change, it is because exactly the criticisms that civil society has made are actually addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012418	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012420	I would like to hear: if the government and the other parties that support do not have their four points met, will the trade agreement fall to the ground? Do we withdraw from it, or what happens if we do not get the four points fulfilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012442	Mrs Lone Loklindt
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012444	Of course, that whole process is not clear either. There is, after all, a great deal about negotiations. I think I would say, like the rapporteur from the Left, that it is not the case that we need to put a whole free trade agreement at risk, in relation to whether or not an ISDS agreement is coming, but in any case I believe that whatever happens, an EU agreement will have to be approved in the Member States too, because we will all be included in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012527	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012528	Thank you. But that means that it is mostly for internal Danish use that you put up four points, and then you try to negotiate, and then you will probably approve it anyway. Then there is good reason to be critical. But if, on the other hand, we say that all four points are met, what on earth is left of the ISDS mechanism, and why on earth should it be there? Is it just for America, or is it just like that, or what? Then you might as well throw it away and say, "That's a good thing we won." We had it drove down to what we would like it to do, which means that it does not really matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012604	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012606	Now these four points are not invented in Denmark. Some have emerged from the consultation that has been held by civil society throughout Europe. But they then coincide with the criticism that we have also seen in Denmark and the concern that most parties, I believe, have had here in the Folketing. But now it's the case that what ISDS is all about is an arbitration court. This is, of course, a way of settling disputes which are independent of courts and which can therefore be speeded up and on a basis that has been agreed in advance. The issue of how companies can risk being discriminated against, I think, could well be relevant to Danish companies on the American market. It could also happen that there could be a risk of discrimination in relation to US companies in the United States, because we have a tendency to do things in our own way. I guess that's what should still be able to justify an ISDS.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012722	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Lone Loklindt. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Steen Gade from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429012732	Thank you. Thank you to Enhedslisten for an important debate. I can be a little sad that it's going on so late, but then you can look at it afterwards. When I say that this is an important debate, it is because the whole issue, which has been raised both in relation to the ISDS and also in relation to the whole agreement, includes something quite fundamental when making trade agreements, precisely the fact that the benefits of free trade agreements must not go beyond the environment, must not go beyond consumer protection, must not go beyond workers' rights and should not lead to restrictions on the level of protection. This is something my party has always worked to get in when we have discussed trade agreements. This was true when we were discussing the WTO, which unfortunately does not appear to be, it could be said to have really serious momentum at the moment, and then we have discussed it and tried to work on it all the other times when trade agreements have come in. After all, this trade agreement between the European Union and the United States is one of the greats on the way right now. Before it comes to a large free trade agreement between the United States and the Pacific, it is expected to be in place before this agreement. I would like to say here that I would have liked to see a much more comprehensive WTO agreement instead of these regional agreements. But that is where we are now, and that is where we have to work. I would like to say that the criticisms that have been made, which have also been made by the SF, and which have also been made by the Green Group in the European Parliament, have been of great importance in the sense that it is also the one that has helped to lead to the hearing by the Commission, and that is why I would also like to pay tribute to the commitment of civil society. I fully support that. When we come to the debate on how to negotiate, and that is what we are discussing here, in other words how Denmark should negotiate, we were, of course, part of the proposal for adoption that I referred to earlier, which we adopted a year ago, about what our negotiating line was. There we stressed that we should ensure that the system fully respects the European Union and the right of the Member States to maintain and develop the level of protection in legitimate policy areas, such as agriculture, agriculture and fisheries. the environment, health, consumer protection and workers' rights. That is crucial. In the proposal for adoption on which we are co-sponsors today, we also attach importance to ensuring that governments' ability to provide or support public services is not weakened. So we have framed the areas that we want to safeguard in the course of the agreement. That is the way we think we can respect the many critical voices. That is the way to bring their demands into the negotiations here. We believe that it is also important to have a dispute settlement mechanism. It is, of course, a good idea in comprehensive trade agreements in various ways, and it is not a court, as some have said, but an arbitration body. When we think this is important, it is because we do not want to buy American clauses, for example. will be an obstacle to Danish exports. Of course, we do not want countries to discriminate when they agree that they have tendering systems which must be open and that sort of thing. That's what this is all about. Then it is quite right that ISDS mechanisms have been misused, and that is what we want to ensure, even with the negotiating line that Denmark is leading, not happening, and that is how we will then decide on a final negotiating agreement if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013258	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013305	Thank you. Before the last debate we had on the ISDS here in Parliament, there had been criticism from SF's prime candidate to the European Parliament, Mrs Margrete Auken. Then the SF voted in favour of a proposal for adoption which did not require the ISDS out of the agreement, and then there was criticism from the SF from both Mrs Margrete Auken, but also Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, who criticized the ISDS mechanism. Again, it is similar to the fact that the SF is going to vote in favour of a proposal for adoption which does not require the ISDS out of the agreement. At the same time, the rapporteur for the SF says that criticism from the SF has had a very great effect. If criticism from SF has such an effect, why not adopt a criticism from SF along with Enhedslisten, which could require ISDS to get out of the agreement? Then it could be that it had an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013404	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013407	First of all, I would like to say that the Green Group in the European Parliament has a position paper that says that we are opposed to TTIP in its current form. That is why we are behind this proposal for adoption, because we are going to change the form in which it was presented. That was the answer to some of the points that were made. In the speech that was mentioned about Holger K. Nielsen, who wrote a speech with the Green Party chairman, Reinhard Bütikofer, not so long ago, it is clear that we are in favour of free trade and that we do not want free trade negotiations to be used as an excuse for undermining democratically determined strict regulation. That is exactly what the proposal for adoption in this Parliament says. That is why there is complete agreement as to how we are going to negotiate this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013521	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013524	I am glad that this is clear to the SF rapporteur, but I think it seems quite unclear to most of us. If you want to reschedule the TTIP agreement, that requires changes to be made to that agreement. What just puzzles me is that the SF can sit down in the European Parliament and vote in favour of proposals in the committees which require the ISDS mechanism to be removed, but are opposed to supporting the very same demand from the Enhedslisten in the Folketing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013555	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013559	The proposal for adoption, which I hope Parliament will adopt, states that the Folketing expresses the need for further improvements to the mechanism of the EU Investment Protection Agreement. And then it is marked that we do not agree to anything that weakens all the things I have mentioned. That is surely the answer to why we believe that this proposal for adoption should be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013626	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013628	Thank you. I'd like to know if Mr. Steen Gade agrees with the Radicals, or does he stand by his position, that is, what he said about fully guaranteeing the right to maintain and develop the level of protection? Mrs Lone Loklindt said earlier that it is not possible to put a trade agreement at risk, because we want to make some demands on such a mechanism, and that is why it could be that there was a negotiated solution, instead of keeping to certain principles. How is SF in that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013702	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013704	I am firmly committed to what we will hopefully shortly be adopting in this Parliament: that we will not be involved in an agreement that will be reached with restrictions on the level of protection, the precautionary principle laid down in the Treaty and the ability of governments to provide or support public services; that it will therefore not be weakened. That is quite clear. That is what Denmark is negotiating. And that is why I actually think that, instead of mentioning what we should say no to, Enhedslisten should ask: How does Denmark have to negotiate to influence development? There you can say that many things have moved on, among other things. Because of popular pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013746	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013748	Well, first of all, I would like to say that I think it is a strange thing that states and companies should be treated equally. That's one thing. The other thing is that, as Mr. Steen Gade himself said that we don't like these American clauses we don't like buying EU clauses if it finally gets there, but we like regulation in terms of consumption, environment, workers' rights and such things. But it is, of course, a conciliation mechanism which must be able to be used by companies. It's the company that can raise a case. This means that the company can, of course, raise a case for buying American clauses, but they can raise a case with the other things at any time. How can one distinguish in such a right to complain between one thing and the other, because we now have a special preference for the three points instead of a buy American clause?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013848	Sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013850	Well, that's exactly what the government hopefully is negotiating, so it's gonna be the way we want it to be. That is also what I understood the Minister of Trade to mark: that the negotiations will make it clear that it cannot be used for what Enhedslisten is afraid of. I fully agree that it should not be used for that. But what I can't understand is that Enhedslisten says we just have to say no. But what influence do we get out of it? I certainly cannot see that the fact that we are sending a minister in town with a "no" should actually change something special in the world on this point. On the other hand, I think that putting forward a strategy on how to satisfy the justified criticisms is one of the things that has a chance of being able to change something.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429013954	Thank you, sir. Steen Gade. There are no more brief comments and, as a reassurance to those who may be listening, I must say that there is no vote here tonight, so there is no need to call in the parliamentary groups to come and vote and we will vote at a later date. It was just if somebody had suddenly started calling in the entire parliamentary group, and then it's completely unnecessary. I also note that the Liberal Alliance is not present, and that means that we have come to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr President. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014032	Somewhere, of course, this debate is marked by the fact that we are discussing something that we do not quite know what is. It was from this that the Minister's excellent joke about the giraffe and the difference between ISDS and giraffes arose. I myself was recently in the zoo where I came to overhear a mother who was going to tell her daughter what such a zebra is for one, and then she said: "It is a horse that has put on nightgowns." And that is how things can sometimes turn out to be quite different than they seem to be. Well, it was some attempt to be as funny as the minister here in the late night hour. But that's what the mother said. We are discussing the ISDS and, in fact, perhaps we should have had a broader debate on the free trade agreement. Because when we have to assess the ISDS in due course, it has to be seen in the context of the free trade agreement that is, moreover, there. We cannot simply look at ISDS without assessing the overall agreement complex and assessing whether it is in Danish and European interest to conclude such an agreement or whether it is not. And I must honestly say that for the Conservative People's Party to see, it is clearly an advantage, as a starting point, for us to have a free trade agreement with the United States. It is not possible, even though I have seen different estimates, to calculate precisely what is good for us, either in crowns and ears or in jobs. However, there is no doubt that for a large number of companies, it may be particularly small companies that have difficulties in gaining access to the US market will be advantageous for there to be a free trade agreement. As a small country, Denmark is also in a situation where it will always be an advantage for us to open up to a large market. That is why I and the Conservative People's Party have a very positive approach to it, and we think it would be good if such a free trade agreement were concluded. But that depends, of course, on the content of the agreement, both in terms of ISDS and other elements of it. Is it the case, then, that we should reject a free trade agreement if there is an ISDS? I think that is a slightly wrong approach, Enhedslisten here is going to do so, because we share the concerns. I think it is actually a good thing that we have this debate, in which, in many ways, we see the same thing, that there are some things that need to be improved. There is reason for some of the concerns that have been raised in the consultation process, but it cannot be said in advance that we will not have a free trade agreement if there is an ISDS when we do not know how to shape it. It has to be said that the Commission takes account of some of the main concerns, both in the consultation process, but we also share them here in the Assembly, namely that there will be an excessive limitation on countries' ability to develop policies in key areas of health, consumer protection, the environment, etc. That is what the process is about at the moment, in other words to ensure that there is the possibility of policy development without investors being able to claim that it is some sort of breach of the agreement that was concluded so that a compensation can be obtained in that context. So our recommendation is, of course, that we should now give support to the efforts of the Commission in the course of negotiations, and that is also what we say to the government that the government in the Council must support, and then we must see how it lands. We in the Conservative People's Party have not said in advance that no matter what we think it is a good agreement. We must, of course, look at the content of the agreement, including ISDS, before we can take a final position on it. We are in favour, but there are some things that need to be put in place, some concerns that need to be cleared up before we can say that there is a good agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014539	Thanks to Lars Barfoed. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014543	That was not a very clear answer from the Conservatives this evening. It was positive to hear that even the Conservatives admit that it is not possible to calculate the exact effect of such a trade agreement. It might as well cost us money as it might give us benefits • that's my interpretation • but the Conservatives think it is a clear advantage that we get a trade agreement anyway, although we don't really know whether it's good or bad or what it is, too, I understand, even though there is a mechanism inside that doesn't live up to what the Conservatives are doing to demand this evening. This gives me a little cause for concern. Is it really true that even if we do not have to meet the demands of the ISDS mechanism, we would still say that the trade agreement must go home? That's one thing. It's a high game to play, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014647	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014649	I can confirm that this is not a very clear answer. I do not think that anyone has given that, because we cannot know what our final position is until we know the final content of an agreement. And all components must be included in an overall assessment. We now believe that we should support the negotiating line and the efforts currently being made by the Commission. That is also why we support the proposal for adoption. Because it is precisely that we must guarantee the freedom to develop policy in essential areas, without making it the subject of legal proceedings, for example. more stringent environmental measures or consumer measures or anything else have been introduced. In the end, however, it must be an overall assessment of the components of the agreement that determines whether or not we think we should support the whole complex of agreements. And you can't decide on that until you see what it's like.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014750	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014754	What I'm most worried about is trying to separate things that can't be separated. We know the old discussion on technical barriers to trade in the European Union, we know the debate on social dumping, where the European Union says that considerations of capital and companies take precedence over considerations of, for example, social dumping. drawing up an agreement. We have been struggling with this for ten years now and not really figured out how to do it. There are things we must not do in this Chamber because the European Union says that we must not do so, for example. Action against social dumping. And that's what I'm talking about. From a company's point of view, the technical barriers to trade are, from our point of view, perhaps environmental or consumer considerations or workers' rights. What is wrong is that there are problems that may arise, which are both, and then we stand there, and then we lose to the multinational and that mechanism, and that is what I am most worried about. That's why I think you need to be more critical than you are.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014847	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014851	I think we are very critical of the fact that we have taken note of the concerns expressed in the consultation process. That is what the Commission has done. We'll back that up. On the other hand, I think that the Enhedslisten is far too quick to conclude that you do not want an ISDS mechanism at all, without knowing what it contains, for all the things, Mr President. Christian Juhl now mentioned with social dumping and multinational companies, and I do not know what, we do not know at all whether issues will be relevant until we see how the final agreement complex will be. So let us now support the negotiating line that the Commission has and see how it lands. We have a proposal for adoption here which I really think meets the concerns of the Enhedslisten as well. So I think that the Enhedslisten should agree to this proposal for adoption, and then we can take the discussion when the negotiations are concluded, as to whether we should recommend or not recommend a free trade agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429014957	Thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed, because there are no more brief comments. I can see that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen is ready, but it's too soon. Because if this is to be done properly, according to the manuscript that I have been given by those who know how it is going to be done, then it is now the case that we are giving the floor to the Minister for Trade and Development. Because he has actually indicated that he would like to speak, so he will.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429015018	Thank you. Yeah, well, now we're so good at it, and so there's no reason for us to go home too early, and it's allowed to wear pajamas, both in here and out there, or I don't actually know if it is. No. ) But I would like to thank you for the debate and also thank you for the question. As has been mentioned, although it is taking place here in a late night hour, it is indeed an important debate because the free trade agreement is important for Denmark. It is for our economy and for our employment. However, it is also important that the free trade agreements, including investment protection, are properly organised, and I think there has been a good debate about that here today. However, I also need to comment on a few points, in particular some of the points made by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur from the platform, and that is first of all in relation to what this ISDS actually contains. Because, as several rapporteurs have said, most recently the SF rapporteur, it is strange that the Enhedslisten has decided that you do not want an investment protection mechanism even before you know what it contains. That is strange, and I think that many people cannot understand that, and especially if the mechanism is set up in exactly the same way as it says in the motion for a resolution tabled by a large majority of parties here today. I have been looking at what we have of information about what is on the table, in relation to the ISDS mechanism that you want to set up and when it is then that companies can take up a case with a state, and this applies both to Danish companies that have to invest in the United States, and to American companies that have to invest in the European Union. This is if you are denied a fair trial or a fair administrative procedure, that is if there is obvious arbitrariness in the judicial and administrative decisions, that is, what we call misuse of power, that is if there is targeted discrimination on the basis of race, gender and belief, it is if there is direct harassment of an investor or if there is a situation in which the State can prove that it has given an investor a certain expectation of a concrete outcome of the investor's involvement in that country. I would like to know whether anyone is opposed to the possibility of getting their case tried if you are exposed to something like this, and that applies to individuals, and that also applies, of course, to companies. In this context, I also think it is important to say that in the case of indirect expropriation, which has been mentioned from up here and when cases can be brought, it is in those cases where it can be compared with real property deprivation, and I think that is quite fair. Finally, there is also the situation in which an investor's profits are impaired by a particular piece of legislation, where it will also be established that it cannot be measured as expropriation. Furthermore, there will also be a provision, as we know the wording, which means that where an investor will have to bear a deterioration in his earnings as a result of legislation aimed at safeguarding public interests, the right to regulate will be established. So that is what is on the table and I have to ask: who can actually be against it? It is also true in Danish case law that such considerations as these are taken into account when it comes to an investor. Then there is the question of whether all of this is then incorporated into the Canadian agreement. No, it's not. But a lot of improvements have been made in the Canadian agreement. It's much better than the previous ISDSs that were made, because it was made here a few years ago. So there are improvements in it. But, if possible, we want to make further improvements to it. After all, the negotiations are closed, but we believe that there are also opportunities for further improvements in the latter part of it, and we are working for that from the Danish side. Then I would like to mention something when Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen from up here says that it is only the large companies that are granted rights here and that national companies are discriminated against: No, Danish companies are granted rights in the United States, as well as American companies are granted rights in the EU. And I think it was quite timely for the Socialist rapporteur to mention who these companies are, because that might make it a little understandable for all of us. This is among other things. Danish pension companies, which manage all of our pensions, must also ensure that we can get a reasonable return so that we can have a decent pension. I have had a meeting with them, and I have asked: Does it matter to you that Danish companies' investments around the world are protected? Yes, they say it is of great importance to us. And they have seen examples of the fact that Danish pension savers have simply disappeared because their investments have not been protected. So it is also important for the ordinary Dane's pension investment that you can of course rely on the countries in which you invest. Then it's from up here by mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has been mentioned a large number of examples of cases where, I think, it is presented as if it were dangerous cases. The Philip Morris case against Australia is mentioned and the Wattenfall case against Germany is mentioned, and I would like to say quite frankly that my position is quite clear. Of course, Germany must be allowed to make legislation where they want to phase out their nuclear power, without anyone being able to come and seek compensation for it, unless I and I do not know about the agreements that have been concluded there has been an agreement with the investor who has had to invest in these nuclear power stations that clearly warrant compensation, but otherwise it must of course not be possible for an investor to come and bring proceedings. However, both the case and the Australian case and a large number of other issues that have been raised in the debate have not been settled, and therefore I do not understand how it can be used as examples of the ISDS being wrong or problematic. Imagine if the German state is right, imagine if the Australian state is right, does that mean that Enhedslisten believes that the ISDS is working just fine because the state was right? But it has not been decided, and therefore it cannot be used in the argument. When we are in Australia, which was highlighted as an example of not having ISDS, I have to say that Australia has ISDS in four trade agreements, namely with Chile, with Singapore, with Thailand and with New Zealand, and they have ISDS provisions in 21 investment protection agreements, among others. with Hong Kong, and in the new TTIP trade agreement concluded in the Pacific, ISDS is included. So that's how it stands in Australia. And when sir... Nikolaj Villumsen mentions that the Dutch Parliament is opposed to ISDS and TTIP, so it is not correct. It is when such examples are given from the platform or in the public debate, or when such arguments are put forward, that I also have to appeal to all of us to make every effort to ensure that what we say is really true, otherwise it is not fair to the people's ability to take a position on this in a proper and sensible way. Then I will say at the end in relation to the things that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has brought up from up here now Enhedslisten has to apologize for the way I deal with the speeches that have come from their side, but it is because it was here that there was a criticism to answer, and I would very much like to do that when it comes to whether the trade union movement is behind this, it is true that there are also critical voices in the trade union movement in Europe. I myself have been working in the trade union movement for many years and also in the European trade union movement, and I know how different positions one can have there. In particular, there are sometimes major differences in what is meant by the trade union movement of southern Europe and what is meant by the trade union movement of northern Europe. I should just like to say that our trade union movement back home in Denmark supports the fact that we are entering into a trade agreement with the United States and that they also support investment protection if it is based on the principles that I have set out from up here. I myself have given my name to a chronicle along with the chairman of the Danish Metal, LO, 3F, FOA and HK, who clearly signals it. And I have at an early stage just entered into a dialogue with the Danish trade union movement to be sure where they stand in this case. They are not uncritical, nor are we, either the government or the parties behind the proposal for adoption, which we hope will be adopted tomorrow. We are, of course, trying in every possible way to incorporate the criticism into the results we are working on to achieve down in Brussels. I shall conclude by saying that I see the President standing up. Therefore, I hardly have time to mention that it is as if ISDS has become a giraffe. Then you have to ask, since Enhedslisten wants to put this giraffe in a freezer, how do you do it? It's quite simple, sir. President, you open the lid on the freezer, put the giraffe down there, and you close the lid again. I would therefore recommend that the motion for a resolution be adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which was approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, be adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has tabled on
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020153	I don't want the minister running too fast. I was just beginning to think that the Minister had come up with support for the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption, but I must now be careful not to pre-discount anything. Moreover, the Minister is right that we will vote on it tomorrow, because tomorrow is Thursday. Despite that, there are two brief comments. The first one's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020219	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister. The Minister says that it should not be the case that a company such as Vattenfall can claim compensation when Germany decides to phase out nuclear power unless it has been given the opportunity. That possibility has been given precisely because an ISDS mechanism has been put in place in the agreement. This is, of course, the opportunity that I think it would be foolish to make in a future EU-US free trade agreement. If you allow companies to sue, they'll do it, and you can risk losing those cases. However, I would like to hear from the Minister whether there are examples from Danish companies and from EU companies in the United States that there are problems that can be solved if an ISDS mechanism is created.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020322	Thank you for the question. I just wanted to say that I hope I didn't say it like that. At least that's not what I meant. I said that I do not think it should be possible for Vattenfall to bring an action before the ISDS against the German Government unless a concrete agreement has been reached between Vattenfall and the German Government that if the conditions for their involvement change, some form of compensation could be demanded. So the conditions must be quite clear, and that is what we need to use the modern version of ISDS to say. Conditions must be quite clear in the sense that there is in fact some form of expropriation or something similar before a possible compensation can be paid. We do not know whether this is the case in the German case, because the matter has not yet been settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020426	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020429	I would like to hear from the Minister whether there are any concrete examples from Danish companies or EU companies that had had problems with investment in the United States that could be solved with such an ISDS mechanism.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020448	I would very much like to look into that. I don't have a list here. After all, however, I think that we should take account of the fact that the judicial systems in the United States and the European Union may be the same, that this is not quite the case. In most American states the judges are actually politically elected. They are politicians, and when they have to sit and make decisions in certain cases, as may well be the case in connection with the commitments of Danish companies, I wonder if it is about deciding on the interest of a company or the interests of local voters, what position a judge will take. We have also seen different decisions in other contexts where you can think a little in that direction. It's just to say that the systems are certainly not the same. Therefore, there may be a very good reason to have investment protection also between the European Union and the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020548	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020550	I got a little bit smarter because the Minister's party comrade said that pension companies could find themselves in a situation where they have to raise cases. I couldn't understand that right when I heard it, but I don't have the floor again. But pension companies can have money in companies that can get into what they think is a squeeze, and then they may feel drawn to raise a case with a state. I get that. And that is why, of course, there can be money at stake for the pension company, which is why there can be a risk that they will not get this money. That's clear enough. I understand that quite clearly, and I would like to say that I am primarily on the side of the state in such a matter, because I believe that it is an inexorable situation for a company to be able to raise such cases. Then the Minister says that the trade union movement will back up before we have really started discussing it. I would like to say, as the Minister himself knows, that the more we discuss it among the members of the trade union movement, the more questions are asked, even more questions, than I am sure both the Minister and I can answer. But questions are being asked, a lot of questions are being asked. And there's a real, real desire to get answers to these questions. That is why I think it is important not to draw conclusions until we have had the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020712	I think it is good that there is debate, including in the trade union movement. I have also participated in it myself and would also like to continue to do so. I just think it is important in this context to provide the right information and not with the myths when we discuss these things out there, because then people do not have a living chance to relate to whether they think it is right or wrong. Now Mr. Christian Juhl saw the pension companies and companies that could get into trouble. Let me just give you an example of how I think it is quite reasonable for a state to be convicted in such a case. There was the Spanish Repsol, which invested in the Argentine State energy company in 2012. Argentina then went in and nationalized and thus expropriated for 10.5 billion. kr., which the Spanish Repsol had invested in Argentina. I think that is quite reasonable and the Argentine State was sentenced to at least pay back some of the money to Repsol. This is an example in which I think it makes sense that states can also be judged. Because it is not fair to go in and expropriate without providing compensation and compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020840	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020843	Well, I guess you don't need an ISDS mechanism to run a case like this that's familiar. Today you can also drive it in Denmark, for example. if you are a Danish company. The negotiations are closed, said the Minister. It just shocked me, because I thought, "Oh, my gosh, we've come out too late with this, so we're not too early, so we're all out too late with the criticism and the critical debate. I hope I've heard wrong, but I'd like to get that straight. Then I would like to make the final comment. In my opinion, this is a political debate, it is not a technical debate about how some cables should be in the way or how to build a house or other things. It is a political debate, it is about attitudes. And there I would like to appeal to you that it is okay to have opinions and not to be rebuked or corrupted, where some say: What I say is facts, and what you say is just myths. If we do not have a proper and equal debate, then it will certainly be very, very easy for me to go out and say: there you can hear; they think they have an exclusive right to the truth. I can't do that, my friends. You have to take it and balance it, at least it is good in relation to your own opinions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020950	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429020953	I just want to clarify. I did not say that negotiations on TTIP are closed; I said that negotiations on the Canadian Free Trade Agreement are closed. There is now a legal review of the texts. Yet in that process we are trying to get some of the elements on the ISDS that we would also like to include in the TTIP agreement. And yes, then it is important that we do not spread myths and that applies to both sides of the hall. In any case, I shall make every effort not to do so. I would just like to say thank you for the debate, but I cannot help noticing that we are now in the country of the pig, and what do you get when you cross a pig with a giraffe? You get an awful lot of neck chops and I could eat one of those now. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429021048	It is always nice that the Minister keeps his spirits up to the end, at least to the end. According to my manuscript, I should now say that no one else has asked for the floor, but that is not true, because Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen made. And he also has the right to speak. So he is now given the floor, and that is a second-round speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429021110	Thank you for the debate and also thank you to the Minister for the various animal stories. After all, this debate has lasted for two days. It is not every day that query debates extend over two days in the Folketing. After this, the debate will end and tomorrow, Thursday, will be voted on. I think this has been an interesting debate. I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is important to emphasise that if we in the Danish Parliament and the Danish Government are to have an expectation of influencing these results, then I think it is absolutely essential that we report clearly. I simply do not think that we will have any influence or a clear vote in the debate if we do not have a clear statement. If we do not send out clear signals on the Danish side, we will not affect the outcome either. Right now there is a rapidly growing concern for ISDS in Denmark and in Europe, and I think we should take this concern seriously. I had hoped that today we could arrive at a result in which the Danish Parliament would support the criticism and demand that ISDS be removed from the agreement. Unfortunately, that is not the result of today's debate, and of course I think that is a pity. There have been various comments which I would just like to comment on briefly. Left was tired of the great criticism and the many e-mails from among others. civil society. I would say that I cannot share that concern and criticism on the part of the Enhedslisten. I think it's great that people send a lot of e-mails. I think it is positive that 1.7 million signatures have been collected. The Social Democrats want to be decisive. It's always good to be able to act. I had hoped that the criticisms made by the European trade union movement and a large number of committees in the European Parliament would be backed up by the removal of the ISDS mechanism. Unfortunately, that is not what you want. The Danish People's Party now believes that it is sensible to have an ISDS mechanism, while before the European Parliament elections it was thought that it was unreasonable to have an ISDS mechanism. Allow me to say that it is a little unreasonable for the Danish People's Party to say one thing before the European Parliament elections and another after the European Parliament elections. Basically, I think there's a slightly dangerous tendency to think that this modern ISDS mechanism can solve the problems. For what is it really possible to do in terms of giving ISDS opportunities for companies to demand compensation if they are affected by the consequences of the regulation in relation to their expected earnings, without exactly damaging the parliaments' ability to make this regulation without being faced with such legal proceedings? This kind of far-reaching investor rights is precisely about restricting the scope for regulation. That is the whole point, because companies must therefore be compensated if that happens. So I have to say that I am not convinced of the optimistic approach to the new modern model. It must be said basically that it might be expected that there would be a major problem for Danish companies that have invested in the United States and that, on that basis, they wanted to grant these far-reaching rights. Unfortunately, I have not been able to get any examples from experts until today or during the debate today that there are problems for Danish companies investing in the United States which would have to be solved with the ISDS mechanism. I think it is perhaps important to think about this in the future, i.e. whether we are really providing some far-reaching opportunities for companies, without really having a problem for Danish companies investing in the United States and which we are about to solve. Of course, I find it disappointing that we cannot get a majority that clearly expresses a desire to have the ISDS withdrawn from the agreement. I would like to say, however, that I think we are in a positive development. After all, we have had a development in which the government originally supported the negotiating mandate given by the European Commission, which had ISDS as part of its content. When this negotiating mandate was leaked, there was a great deal of criticism that led us to have a discussion here in the Folketing. This led the government to support a modern model for ISDS, after which new criticism came that it was not enough. Now we are backing an even more modern model, and I hope, of course, that next time we have the debate, it will not only be the Enhedslisten, who believes that ISDS should not just be modern, but should be completely out of the agreement and that we can thus have an agreement that brings us all together. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the debate. Thank you for the discussion today. I can say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that we will follow the debate and we welcome the growing criticism that is both at home and in Europe. We hope that it will spread in the future in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429021631	I would like to thank Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. That does not give rise to any brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150429021644	Unfortunately, there is no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Wednesday, 29 April 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
