ParlaMint-DK_20150512144507	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144510	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144542	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144621	The vote will start. Has everyone voted? The vote is closed. In favour, 97 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144710	The debate is open. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Thomas Danielsen, stand by. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144741	Thank you. This is B 170, and I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. In the view of the Bureau and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, it is desirable that the annual legislative proposals on expenditure ceilings provided for in the Budget Act may be submitted to the Folketing in the same way as the Government's draft budget, without this requiring a derogation from the rules of the Rules of Procedure in individual cases. It is therefore proposed that the special rule on the submission of the government's draft budget should be extended to include the legislative proposals on expenditure ceilings. And all I have to say is that the Left and, as I said, the Conservative People's Party support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144908	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144915	So do the Socialists. We therefore support the proposal, as do the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144923	Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144934	These are the great speeches that come out here. I also confine myself to stating that the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144941	Thank you. Then we have Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144953	I can only say that we, too, on the part of the Enhedslisten, can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512144958	Thank you. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145008	There are times when it's good to be obnoxious, as you get tormented about saying something. After all, it is always a little nice that there is actually a demand for the views of the Liberal Alliance. But it is the case that the Liberal Alliance can of course also support this very simple and practical proposal that proposals can be made outside the Parliamentary part-session on the expenditure ceiling law. It's hard to be against, so we're for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145041	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. I do not know whether we should have a rapporteur for the SF. No. We think it's okay. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. Is there a request for referral to committee? There is no indication of that. Then the proposal goes directly to the second reading [without referral back to committee].
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145116	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur on the Left, sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145136	Thank you. I regret that this is going to be slightly longer than under the previous proposal. We must now deal first with a legislative proposal which I doubt, in fact, is supported by the government, at least on this basis, in this Chamber. It is a proposal which has not been discussed politically before it has been put forward. It is a proposal which, at least in my universe, cannot be regarded as much more than an election document. It is also a proposal which the Left cannot support, as it stands at present. Getting refugees to order something when they have been granted a residence permit in Denmark is basically sensible. There is no doubt about it, and it is certainly also sensible to make the employment effort more business-oriented. But when, at the same time, as is proposed in this proposal, we remove the requirement for full-time employment of 37 hours and replace it with a system whereby for four weeks we are going to visit a company for a couple of hours a day, and then we can take a one-month break before we have to activate again for 10 hours a week, we believe that we are watering down the very purpose and purpose of the proposal, namely that new entrants should have a real job. If you come to Denmark, you must work. ▪ We have all been able to read this on buses and on billboards around the country. The Prime Minister has even given it as a tough statewoman who makes demands and tones pure flag. We agree that this is needed. Unfortunately, the sharp wordings have not been followed up by a sufficiently sharp action. As Jyllands-Posten has been able to document, only 246 of the current 9,132 people are covered by the integration programme, which is actually assessed job preparation. In other words, the draft law which we have been given the impression should mark a completely new approach to new-born refugees only covers approx. 3% of the refugees. After all, we are dealing with a government that has made it less attractive for newcomers to take a job. It is a government that has given an ordinary refugee family 10,000 kroner. extra a month to do good with, and then at the same time say that everyone who can must take a job. The only problem is that it does not pay for the individual refugee. That is why we believe that there is a need for a completely different direction from what the government is proposing here. After all, we agree with the government in the analysis of the problem, and I quote from the comments to the bill: "refugees and family couples should not be made clients and live on the edge of society without a job. The Danish welfare society is based on the fact that all citizens provide their best and actively contribute to the community. That is why we must also make demands on newcomers and family members. It's as true as it's written. The only problem is that, in our opinion, the government does not. So it does not make demands. In the Left, we believe that if you come to Denmark, you should only be entitled in future to an integration benefit until a number of objective integration requirements have been met. Thus we reward the people who can and will, while those who do not want to contribute will stay at the lowest levels of integration benefit. It is a service that corresponds to the service we provide to Danish university students in the SU. Each time you meet one of the four integration criteria, you are entitled to higher benefits, and once you have completed your integration programme, you have earned the right to full cash benefits. The four criteria are as follows: Completed the first stage of Danish education, active full-time employment or training for continuous 6 months, demonstrated knowledge of Danish values and an active participation in Danish social life. In fact, I do not think that is unreasonable or harsh, as I am likely to be accused of being in a moment's time, quite the opposite. If you do not make clear demands and set clear targets, then you do all the people in this society, including refugees, a huge disservice in the original sense of the word. As I have said, the Left cannot support this bill in the form in which it has been presented here. We do not believe that the proposal presented here brings us substantially close enough to the ambition that we actually share with the government, namely to ensure that all citizens of this society, wherever they come from in the world, become part of the working community and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145622	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145629	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for the presentation. I heard the rapporteur say that it is not worthwhile for refugees to work. I don't really understand. So, I know that refugees get a rate of cash aid, so if they get an ordinary job for example. 20,000 kroner. a month, there's 10,000 kroner earned. Okay, then a little more tax will have to be paid, but that's pretty many thousands more than you'd otherwise have had. And if it is the case that refugees do not want to take on a useful job or an internship, you lose cash aid. So I do not really understand how the rapporteur came to the conclusion that it is not worthwhile for refugees to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145713	We believe, as I said in my presentation, that an integration allowance should be introduced that is equivalent to what a university student is receiving today in the SU. And there are three reasons for this. Firstly, because we know that economic conditions have an impact on how attractive Denmark is as a country of asylum. So that's one reason. The second reason, as the government has recognised in all sorts of other contexts, is that economic incentives work. This means that when you regulate services, it has an impact on how attractive it is to find a job. So that is the second reason why we are proposing an integration benefit. The third reason why we are proposing an integration benefit is actually because we have asked ourselves the fundamental question: is it reasonable, when you come to Denmark and have never set foot here before, that you can get full cash assistance, that is, a service that is significantly higher than the start-up aid that we had in the 00s, a service to which all sorts of other people who have lived here all their lives are entitled? We do not necessarily think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145814	Sir. Finn Sørensen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145817	Thank you. I don't really think I got the answer to my question. I did not ask what the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are proposing. I asked how the rapporteur came to the weird conclusion in my ears that it is not worthwhile for these refugees to work when there are the conditions mentioned. And then I would just like to point out that according to the government's proposal, when it comes to young people under the age of 30, it is the case that they will then be reduced by DKK 1,000. a month, after which they go down to the starting aid level, as Mr. Martin Geertsen and his party together with the Danish People's Party and others introduced under the VKO regime, and which the current government and Enhedslisten abolished. So what is really the difference besides that more always want more? How can the rapporteur come to the conclusion that there is no gain for these refugees by getting an ordinary job or by there being a threat that they will be deprived of cash assistance if they do not take on a job as a wage printer somewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145912	Thank you. Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145915	I should like to thank Enhedslisten's rapporteur for really helping me in my discussion with the government on whether financial incentives work. Because I'm wondering, too, just as it puzzles Mr. Finn Sørensen that you can operate with a start-up aid level for people under 30 years of age, but do not do so for people over 30 years of age. So I kind of agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen in that it may seem strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145941	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Hækkerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512145950	Thank you, Madam President. After all, I listened carefully when Mr. Martin Geertsen delivered the rapporteur's speech, for there were a number of general considerations about the policy to be pursued, but I also listened carefully to what it was in relation to this specific legislative proposal that the Left thought. And as I understood, sir. Martin Geertsen, the only argument I actually heard against the bill, was that the 37-hour rule was abolished in relation to this particular bill, not in relation to all the general considerations, but just in relation to this and Mr. Martin Geertsen is certainly fully aware, as the comments also state, that the 37 hours today also include Danish education, including preparation for Danish education, that is to say, where you just prepare for the classes in the goose-eyes. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Martin Geertsen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150043	Now I happen to know that Mr. Ole Hækkerup attaches great importance to the fact that this is called Parliament's debates, but I believe that Mr. Ole Hækkerup and I were supposed to sit in a room for ourselves if it was the case that we were actually going to meet each other on this question. However, our starting point is that the employment requirement should be 37 hours, and we really think it is to turn the boat slightly too much on the head to say that now, in fact, the municipalities are being given the freedom to go down to 10 hours in employment requirements. No, the starting point should be the 37 hours. If sir... Ole Hækkerup had also listened a little more to some of the things I had said, he would have heard that I actually also said that we also have to look at those groupings, the ready for activity and the ready for work, because it is a huge challenge that only 3%. or something similar to that will actually be covered by these things that the government is now proposing. So I would just like to conclude by saying in this brief comment that when we look at the whole integration process, the whole area of integration, it is amazing that the level of benefits will not also be taken into account once we have started. For we agree on many, long other aspects, that the level of benefits obviously has an impact on how motivated one is to find a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150158	Sir. Ole Hækkerup for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150201	In other words, if we said that the 37-hour job requirement applies to those who are ready for work, would that be sufficient for the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150215	No, what we have said in this way is what I have just mentioned, and that is that there are three challenges for us here: one is the question of the employment requirement; the other is how many it covers; and the third is a strong astonishment that we are not also looking at the level of benefits in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150234	Thank you. No one else wanted to speak. Then we go to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr. Ole Hækkerup as Social Democratic rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150250	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, the Social Democrats can support this bill. For us, the overall objective is that new dancers should be as much in work and as much in education as the rest of the population. That is why the government is now proposing a change that is fundamental in many ways in the integration programme, focusing on what the individual can do. And we want to make demands on it, so that is also something that you live up to. This means that refugees coming to Denmark have to work. In the workplace, you get a network, you learn language and tone, and you come directly into contact with the values of the surrounding society. Then, of course, someone cannot go straight to work. But here we can start by finding out what people can do. And if you can work, of course you have to. Otherwise, you must have the right and the duty to participate in what is aimed at companies, i.e. the company-oriented, and teaching in Danish, which will make more people become part of the Danish labour market and thus part of Danish society. And that is necessary because many of those who have come before have, in fact, ended up standing outside society, to the detriment of themselves, of society and of future generations. That is why the government is also proposing that those who have finished the integration programme should continue in society. If they are then on cash aid, the effort must also be more business-oriented than it is today. The idea is that in this way we are starting to correct past integration, which has not worked well enough. Of course, there may be some who are affected by severe psychological problems due to war experiences, and they will hardly be able to participate fully in society • at least not immediately. That is why there are those who can say that we must be careful in each case that we do not expect too much immediately. But our starting point is also that we must be careful that we do not expect too little of people. We are not helping anyone further in life, even in life in Denmark, by expecting that they probably never can or will become a part of society, on the contrary. Clarification of competence, enterprise-oriented action, integration that starts earlier, involvement of civil society all contribute to better integration, and on this basis I commend the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150451	There are brief comments, first from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150455	Thank you. When you take part in political discussions with representatives of the Socialists, you hear that, and that is something, the Socialists and Mr. Ole Hækkerup, I'm sure, quite often says that the number plays a crucial role in integrating all those who are here and all those who are coming. I would like to ask whether the Socialists have left that view or whether you may never have had that view, but that is just something you say sometimes. How on earth do you imagine that these measures will have a positive effect when you expect up to 12 000 people to have a residence permit in the area of asylum alone and that there will be family reunifications? Is that even realistic? Do you believe that a sensible integration can come out of it when so many people come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150540	I would like to say several things. The first is that I believe that the number that comes is important for the success of integration. The second is that when Mr. Martin Henriksen refers to the 12,000, I believe both Mr. Martin Henriksen and I are well aware that this is a gross figure for how many people come and seek asylum, and that is far from the same as how many actually receive asylum. The third is that the figure of 12,000, I think, is now trying to agree to Mr. Martin Henriksen's thought is derived from what was expected, at least in the past, to come this year. But if we look at how many have come and applied for asylum in Denmark in the first quarter, i.e. approx. 1,500, so we have to say that that doesn't even indicate that it's nearly that many. What we are interested in with this bill is saying: we can see that there is an integration that has not worked well enough in the past. We know that one of the best ways to get people to understand the values of the surrounding society and learn Danish is to get away from the school bench, not to give up Danish education and also to get out into companies and into the real world and do it right away. This is what we are aiming for with this proposal, and it is simply because we want integration that has not been effective enough in the past to improve.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150646	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150648	But the 12 000 are what the government itself expects of how many people are granted a residence permit in the area of asylum. If you look at the figures for the first few months, you can see that this unfortunately suggests that the government's own prediction is true. It's a lot of people. Even if it just lands at 10,000 or 8,000, it will still be another increase over previous years. That is why my question remains: do the Socialists believe that the number plays a role? And if the Socialists think so, why on earth do they not start to limit the flow? Why are measures not being taken which point 1 limits the flow and paragraph 2 ensures that the many people who are granted a residence permit are in fact only here temporarily and then sent back afterwards? Because there we see nothing on the part of the government. Now, sir. Ole Hækkerup may mention the government's asylum bill, but it hits an infinitely small part. The vast majority of them are not affected by it. So there we have to see some effective measures to limit the flow, and if you do not want to limit the flow, this will not work, and that is what is so sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150758	I think the Danish People's Party is aware that in this area signals really, very much. I think that the Danish People's Party is right in the explanation about that the signals you send also mean a great deal to whether people end up choosing to come to Denmark. I also believe that there are other things that matter, such as how many conflicts there are in the world. There may also be something that is about whether it is summer or winter etc. But I do believe that signals mean something, and I think they are one of the reasons why we have seen a fall in how many people come and seek asylum in Denmark. If we go back to September and October, we can see that 2,000-3,000 a month came and sought asylum. I believe that one of the reasons why that figure has now fallen to about 500, among other things. are the signals that lay in the tightening that the government got through the Folketing here in January. And precisely to underline the point that signals mean something, I would say that one could see that the figure began to fall as early as autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150857	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150901	Thank you to the rapporteur for the presentation. The rapporteur's last comment here gives me the opportunity to ask a question: what signal does this legislative proposal send? Is that a signal that will lead to more refugees or fewer refugees? That is one question. The second question is: does the rapporteur agree that the tasks referred to as useful jobs in this draft law are about cleaning up beaches; it is about helping in day care institutions, in nursing homes; these are the examples mentioned are the collective agreements covered by 3F and FOA?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512150943	Thank you. First of all, when we tightened the conditions for asylum in Denmark and to bring the family here, it is about that very relationship. And that's where I think it means a lot. I believe that it means a great deal to where people choose to seek asylum, what the conditions are for obtaining asylum and for bringing the family with them. Something else is so, and here I say it with a completely open mind, that we need to keep a course where we are just getting on the trail that the number that is coming means something to how successful integration is going to be. The next point is: how are we to make it work as well as possible for those who come to Denmark? And that is where I think this brings us in the right direction. Here, in fact, I have a dividing line for the blue parties because they say that even those we have let into the country must be treated as badly as possible, because it gives a signal to others, so we are sure that they stay out. I disagree on this point. I disagree with the blue ones here. Where I think I sometimes disagree with some of the reds is in the question of: should we make a sharp limit on how many people are allowed to enter the country? It may well be that I agree with the blue ones. But I disagree with the blues that if you treat people as badly as possible, it will scare some others away. I do not think that is right. There I think there is a very good line in integration and immigration policy. That's one. The other one is so...
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151106	Mr President, there is another brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151110	Thank you. I asked whether the rapporteur would consider this to scare away refugees or whether it would attract more. Now I would just like to ask the rapporteur to start by answering the question that I did not get an answer to. Does the rapporteur agree that the tasks and examples of useful jobs mentioned in the proposal are covered by the agreement of 3F and FOA? And then I have to ask that if the rapporteur agrees that those tasks are covered by the two federations and I personally have no doubt at all that they are • what is the reason why refugees must be sent out to carry out those tasks to approx. 42 kr. In class? That is what we call social dumping in other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151156	Thank you. And thank you for sir. Finn Sørensen asked me again, so I will have the opportunity to answer the second question too. After all, the useful jobs that come in useful jobs are only part of what is also the business-oriented job must be added to what is already being done today. I do not see that this means that we can then go out and say that we are now eliminating some ordinary jobs. I guess I'll say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, that it is practical that if you have a job today that will be solved, and then someone who has to do business practice, let us say 10 hours a week, and is about to do a job, then I think that he has had enough barriers ahead of him. It can be language barriers, it can be the experiences you have with you in your luggage etc. So I think that the idea and the fear that people who have a lot of barriers in order to be able to participate in the labour market at all will immediately rush in and take over ordinary collective Danish work is far too exaggerated. That's one. The second is that, as I recall at the moment, the comments on the draft law show that it must not replace ordinary jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151302	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151306	Thank you, President. I would really like to stay a little close to these asylum seekers who are coming. They have to go to work from day one, that is what it says, and if they cannot find a job themselves, they must have wage subsidies, business activation, etc. Who's gonna find those payroll jobs? I assume it is the municipality; but it is already very difficult to find places for the many cash benefits recipients we have. We have over 100,000 cash benefits recipients and benefit recipients who find it difficult to find anything at all and who also need a wage subsidy. Will this then mean that the municipalities must go out and talk to companies and provide wage subsidies to asylum seekers when they cannot meet the requirements of the unemployed they already have? Because that's what may be the risk of it. Here they are required to find jobs, and then Danes, who already go on cash benefits, can also be immigrants who go on cash benefits in the back of the row. Is there not a risk of this, or how does the rapporteur view it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151415	On the contrary. Firstly, we need to have an overall increase in employment. That is basically what must ensure that those who are currently recipients of cash benefits also have the opportunity to get to work. Secondly, the government has just presented here the other day a cash sum that you get if you get people hired if you get cash benefits recipients into work. Finally, of course, we have seen an increase in the use of the very business-oriented, and I think that some of what can give us some thought here is how successful it has been to get people out to private companies and not necessarily have them in public schemes; that is to say, that it is in fact some of the things that have worked well to get people closer to the labour market, whether you are in an integration programme or whether you are a cash aid recipient. And we need even more of that. I think that, in reality, is the solution for both groups. But now we are also adding the cash benefit to cash benefits recipients.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151515	Sir. Bent Bøgsted for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151518	That may be very good, of course, but if they get into payroll jobs in this context, then I don't know how long they can go there, whether it's a month or whether it's longer, it says that after four weeks they'll have to have a new offer. Does this mean that the municipality can send them out into wage subsidy jobs, and when they are done with it, they can go for 4 weeks, and then the municipality has to send them out into a new job, which can also be a wage subsidy job, and then they can go for 4 weeks and then get into a new wage subsidy job, and then they can go for 4 weeks, and then they can get into a new wage subsidy job or is there a limit on how many times you can send them out in pay subsidy jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151557	Well, I guess I'd say to Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, we must understand that we are taking the measures we have in labour market policy, or indeed in social policy, and then we are putting them in this area. That's why, as Mr. Finn Sørensen also pointed out that there has been a reduction in the benefit to young people under the age of 30. That is because there is now a parallelity between the systems. I also think, in relation to the start-up aid discussion, that it is good in itself to say that there are people here on what is equivalent to cash aid. On the other hand, the rights and duties that we have also had when we have made cash benefits reforms and so on are also being met. And that means that something really comes up that is an offer; but it is a right, and then there is a duty, namely to accept the offers. I think it is so fundamental that it is true that people who come to Denmark get used to what values we have chosen to build this country on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151647	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151651	Thank you so much. The rapporteur starts by saying that refugees and immigrants who come here now have to work. And frankly, the rapporteur sounds a bit like a used car dealer trying to sell this proposal as what will then make Denmark no longer the worst country in the world to integrate immigrants and refugees from third world countries into the labour market. In other words, if we are going to try to be a little realistic and if the rapporteur is going to try to be a little realistic, what are the consequences of this bill? We want to move from an employment rate of 51 per cent. to what? What are the expectations?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151742	That is why I started by saying that, for me, the objective is to ensure that newly-danes or people who are in an integration programme, etc., are as much of employment or education as the rest of the population. For me it is fundamental, because if it becomes the case that you can tell the difference between who contributes and who does not contribute by looking at people's religion or their ethnic origin or their skin color, then we have done something wrong. But I think we have a chance here because we know that some of the Syrians come and have better education than many others who have applied for asylum by saying: Let's immediately find out what it is you can; let's get you started doing something where you get in touch with society right away. We have to say that instead of saying: Now you have to sit for 3 years and learn Danish. I think that means that we are going to come to a special relationship with the Syrians who are now going to see a higher participation in the labour market, even as the years go by than we have previously had experience with. And I really think that's the opportunity we're gonna get through this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151839	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151841	The intense is really, really good. It could be really wonderful if it were so that refugees and immigrants in Denmark from third world countries were as much in employment and in education as ethnic Danes, no doubt about it. But then it's quite different tools to get hold of than the ones you're going to get hold of here. The problem in Denmark is structural. It is simply that we may have the world's highest transfer income and thus the world's highest minimum wages. And a very large proportion of the people who come here will not be able to sell their labour to 110 kroner. in the course of the hour, which is, like, the entrance ticket to participate in the labour market in Denmark. That's what's real. This is what makes us the worst country to integrate immigrants from third world countries. It is simply because they have no chance of selling their labour. The Rockwool Foundation has estimated that it is up to 40%. of immigrants from third world countries in Denmark who cannot sell their labour force and who are being excluded from the labour market because of our transfer income system. That is what we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512151952	But here we are actually dealing with the fact that I had just said a classic political disagreement, at least between the Liberal Alliance and the Socialists. For my solution to this problem is to say that we have to have rights and duties that go hand in hand. That is my answer that I do not want to create a significantly greater spread of wages in Denmark. On the other hand, I would like to make a number of duties that people have to fulfil, and I would like to give them, whatever their background, so that it is precisely here with the business plan that it is precisely this lesson in learning Danish. Or if it's over in the Danish cash assistance system, I'll say: Well you're educationally prepared, then we'll put you down to what corresponds to the SU level. I think that is fair because rights and duties must be respected. This also means that if you look at the Danish cash benefits system, you will see some who abuse it or abused it. If you look at them in the integration program, you will see that there can be some with severe traumatic war experiences. They will then not be able to live up to it, and our system must be able to cope with the fact that there are different kinds of people in both the integration programme and among them in the cash assistance system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152051	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152055	But then the disagreement is based on that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen is asking questions about, or even more so, because the government is, in fact, laying down a principle in the draft law which has been put forward here for the people under the age of 30, because it regulates down payments. I guess it's kind of in recognition that financial incentives also work for this group of people. What puzzles me then is that when you are under 30 years of age, financial incentives suddenly work, but when you turn 30 years old, economic incentives no longer work. That's one. The second is more general: does Mr. Ole Hækkerup that SU is a poverty benefit in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152149	What is a poverty benefit in Denmark depends on what situation you are in. I don't mean to indulge in the debate, but if we take Mr. Martin Geertsen or someone else who at one time was a student, they have not necessarily been poor about being at SU, because their perspective and outlook on life was that at some point it would change. That is why I think it is right to say to those who are ready for training, whether they are in the cash assistance system or in an integration programme: you are going to SU because what society wants from you is that you are going to take an education. I can imagine but that is something I imagine to some of them, for example. come from Syria, could be so good at English, for example, that they would immediately be able to go in and take some education in English. Then I think it is true that they are told that this is the expectation that we as a society have for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152250	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152254	But I'd like to ask Mr. Ole Hækkerup, if he does not think that when you come here to Denmark, it is a temporary measure that you should be on a public support. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Ole Hækkerup and I agree that when you come to this country, you should not drag your life on passive support for the rest of your life. So when we talk about these things, I guess it's just like it's for SU receivers, like mr. Ole Hækkerup and I have been in a different context, a temporary measure. I just don't understand why this principle is recognised when people are under 30 years of age, but when people are over 30 years of age, this concept of temporary nature is no longer recognised and economic incentives are no longer effective. I simply cannot understand the context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152347-2	That is because the first thing to look at is whether people are ready for training. The next thing to look at in the overall assessment is whether they are parents or not. Well, then, sir. Martin Geertsen is right in principle that if you took all the services from people, they would probably have a huge incentive. Whether they were on cash benefits, cash benefits or an integration programme, they would have a huge incentive. I think so, sir. Martin Geertsen is absolutely right. But I also believe that both Mr. Martin Geertsen and I would think that it was just as tough a diet to completely abolish it. Then we can have a discussion about what the dependency level should be. There I like the idea that we say: the rules we have in the cash benefits system are correspondingly the rules we find in the integration programme in terms of benefits rates. And I really like it when we say that our demands for rights and obligations in the cash assistance system are also used in the integration programme. I think that basically is to get people used to the values that are important to me as a Socialist, but it is also to ensure that people move on in their lives so that they do not remain on passive support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152444	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152449	Thank you. But the status is, of course, that the government has ensured that refugee families have no financial incentive to take a job, because, with the changes that have taken place since Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt took over the corpse, there is a refugee family left with net DKK 10,000. more a month. It's like status, but what gives me the opportunity to ask about this is actually quite specific: how many more refugees are expected to be taken in an ordinary job with this bill? In other words, how many refugees come into an ordinary job, not a job or a useful job or a wage subsidy job, but an ordinary job as we know it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152548	First of all, about the 10,000 kroner, which Mr. Hans Andersen mentions, I would say, as I remember what the Left used to say, they are 10,000 kroner. a gross amount before tax, not a net amount after tax. It's just to get that point rounded off, because if it's 10,000 kroner. gross, as the Left usually mentions, what is left is net, something else. That's one. The second is: How many people come in ordinary jobs? The goal is clear that it must be as many as possible. I think that when we get the clarification of competence, it will turn out that there are many of them, perhaps in particular some of them coming from Syria, which is the large group we got in the autumn, which has some competences that you can build on, which means that they can get into jobs relatively quickly. With regard to exactly how the competence profile lies with the Syrians we received in the autumn, I would say that I am not sure that they have finished explaining all of them, finding out what their English skills are and what they have had of training originally, and how quickly they will be able to get them into jobs in the Danish labour market. There you will have to have an overview of the entire competence clearance before you can say something just about sober about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152704	Sir. Hans Andersen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152707	Sir. Ole Hækkerup could have just answered very briefly that you know nothing about that. That was, of course, the short answer instead of spending two minutes giving a long sea explaining that talks have not yet been held with the Syrian refugees who have come here and therefore cannot know which jobs they might be able to contest. After all, there are no figures on how many people are going to get into ordinary employment on this, and that's why this makes it difficult for Mr. Ole Hækkerup and the government to meet their own goal, which is in the government base. It says that it is the government's aim that 10,000 more immigrants and descendants should be put into work by 2020, and that is why I am asking: is the government in the process of fulfilling the government basis, or is this, in fact, another breach of promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152759	You know what, sir? Hans Andersen...
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152802	We don't use direct speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152804	I'm sorry, Madam President. It is not fair to say that now you are introducing new tools to make integration work better, and before you have an overview of what people can do, what skills, education or competences they have, you have to say, regardless of what people can do, how much it ends up working and how fast they can get into jobs. If you are to be quite fair, you have to say that how fast people end up in jobs depends on what they carry in their luggage from home. That is why I do not think it is fair to say this when you cannot say on a stand-by basis how far it has come until you have an overview of what people have in their luggage. To be honest, I think, no matter who is in government, that it will be very difficult to say that whatever they have of education or work experience, we know that then I think everyone will have to deal with reality sooner or later.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152907	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512152911	I'm hoping to slow down, because I just have a question about the government presenting this integration package. One of my main concerns was that it was based solely on labour market policy. I think that if you ask out in the municipalities, they think it is such a little 1990's-ish or 00's-like only to consider integration as something you create through labour market policy, because today it is also about many other things, namely getting the Danish values under the skin. Everyone can go to work, but without engaging in the surrounding working community as well as in the general community. So I just want to know if there is going to be more, i.e. if there is going to be a follow-up to this plan to ensure better integration, or if that is what the Socialists are satisfied with, in other words, to use the tools that were done in the 1990s and in the 00s.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153008	I agree with Mrs Mai Mercado that integration is about something other than the labour market, but I also believe that the labour market is a good approach to Danish society, because the norm is that if you can work at all, you must work, because that is also the key to our society being connected at all, not only economically but also humanly. After all, the whole of the government's integration process has all this to do with taking part in cultural life, in society, in sports associations, all of this, which should also be given something at a different level. However, if I am to respond in such a general way to what I also believe to be important in terms of integration efforts, I think it is that we as a society are very clear about what fundamental values and attitudes we have, for example, in relation to gender equality. And if you look back 20-30 years, it's such a more philosophical view, I think it's one of the mistakes you've made in the integration effort in Denmark before, so that you weren't clear enough about what it was some values you had and thought important yourself. On the other hand, I think that Danish society has moved very far. So that way, yes, much more needs to be done, but the labour market is a really, really important part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153118	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153119	We all agree on that. But it still strikes me that it is not enough, because what is exactly about communities in that proposal is very airy, and I can understand that the government has nothing more to do with it, and I think that somewhere is a little too bad, because there is good reason to take action in concrete terms too. When I recall, as social rapporteur in the autumn, I was very much in favour of supporting a project called Ghettosport, where both the municipalities and the sports associations are doing it together with DIF, precisely ensuring that more people in these ghetto areas come out and play sports. The government did not think this was important, but I hope the government will think this is important, because it is as if you only focus on one very old-fashioned angle by the way, and that you completely forget what is about Danishism and getting Danish values under your skin.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153211	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153211-2	I do not agree with Mrs Mai Mercado on that. One of the first things the new government did when it came to it was to create an integration barometer setting up 10 points for what was considered to be good integration, because it would say that it wanted to be measured. Here, of course, there is the matter of participation in the labour market, but there is also education, there is also how good you are with Danish, there is how you are with crime. Ten different points have been set up that you have said you want to be measured on, and then you can see how things are going with the different points. That is why I agree with Mrs Mai Mercado that integration is much more than just labour market participation. I just think that labour market participation is really, really important in this respect, but, of course, I do not think it is fair to say that the government has no idea that it is also about everything but labour market participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153259	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. No one else has wanted to make brief comments. The next one is sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153316	The reason why we have a bad integration process in Denmark is because we have let too many people in, who either cannot be integrated or do not want to be integrated. That is what is at the heart of the matter, and I think that is something we should say clearly from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and also from all sorts of other places and then adapt the legislation accordingly. As far as this bill is concerned, I admit that if you have the starting point, that now there are so many people coming to Denmark as there is now, and we cannot really do anything about that, and that is why we have to see how else we can make it work reasonably well. This is not the starting point we have in the Danish People's Party. But we probably have a slightly different way of prioritising in the Danish People's Party than in the Danish government and probably other parties in here, because we think that when you look at the number of people who are granted a residence permit in the area of asylum, in the area of family reunification, and you could also highlight other things, but now it is primarily refugees and family reunifications that we are talking about here, the first priority for the Folketing and also for the government should be to limit the influx. This is the first priority of the Danish People's Party, and we believe that it should be the same as others. The next thing we want to prioritize from the Danish People's Party is that those who then come here and get a residence permit are given a temporary residence permit, where you work hard for them to be sent back home, or that they are sent to centres abroad, very much in the vicinity. As a third priority for us, we will have to look at how we can then integrate those who are here, those that we now have in Danish society. And there you can see that there is a piece from the Danish People's Party and to the government, because what is our third priority is the government's first priority. That is why we believe that we should look at limiting influx. The fact is that we are dealing with a government which, together with the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten, has systematically relaxed the immigration policy and then denies that it has taken place, a government which, without blinking, has implemented a large number of legislative proposals that have relaxed the demands of foreigners' Danish knowledge of employment, made it easier for refugees to obtain permanent residence permits, made it easier to obtain cash benefits, easier to obtain a full Danish national pension, easier to get Danish basic rights, pushed Danes in the back of the home queue in order to have room for all refugees, made it harder to expel criminal foreigners, rejected VOK's border control agreements, and after all this, and in fact a little more, the government still claims that it has tightened up its demands and that it will preserve the Denmark you know. If it was not the elected government of the Danish Kingdom, the servants of the people, it was comical, but now it is Denmark's government, it is they who are leading the country, and in that light it is directly frighteningly indecent that one continues to deny what policy one has pursued and what policy one is pursuing. Today we are discussing a number of proposals in the field of immigration and integration, and this proposal is a tighter proposal, for that is what the government says, just as the government's asylum proposal itself was the first real tightening up in the area of foreigners for many years. I admit that I am impressed by the talented staff in the various parties, especially in the Social Democratic Party, for how else can you succeed in telling people that tightenings have been carried out when it is so close to being purely nothing. I think the reality is beginning to dawn on most people, and that reality is also catching up with the government. It is possible that when the Danish People's Party votes no, because we do, unless the government wants to negotiate and comply with the Danish People's Party, it will be interpreted as saying no to a tightening. That's the government's interpretation. But we will do so with a clear conscience, and we will do so, because as long as so many people come to the country, this bill is basically irrelevant. It will not make a difference, perhaps beyond the fact that some refugees with public crowns in their backs will take work from unskilled Danes, but that being said, the government does not even believe that they can get a lot of refugees into work with this bill. The Danish People's Party will not integrate refugees and their families. We will send them home or to centres abroad as soon as possible. Until then, they have to stay at the asylum centres, as opposed to today, when they get into the municipalities and skip into the home queue. The Danish People's Party appears to be alone in this view, but it is nevertheless the view, and that is what we are fighting for in the Danish People's Party. We will not give away our country, we care too much of Denmark to do so. The fact is that immigration and, in this case, the influx of asylum is too violent, and that is what the Folketing should be dealing with and debating instead of discussing wage subsidies, useful jobs or whatever it may be. Of course we can discuss this, but that is not what should be the main priority for the Folketing and for the government. This bill is a diversion and an election document, and it is in that light that we should see it. We will pass on a proper country to our descendants, we will not be content with the political game and the government's so-called austerity or harsh rhetoric from one wing or another, no, we want to make a difference, and we will not be making a fool of the Danes in our own house by voting for this bill without at the same time doing anything about immigration to Denmark. Restrict the influx of asylum... everything else is in the broad sense irresponsible! That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153833	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153837	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen for a, one must say, very clear presentation and yet not so clear. Because I heard the rapporteur say that the reason why we have a poor integration effort here in Denmark is that too many refugees have been admitted. I think what the rapporteur said is quite literal. First of all, I would like to question whether the integration effort is now so bad. A great deal is being done in the municipalities, as far as I know. Fortunately, the Danish People's Party decides far from it in all municipalities. Secondly, let us now say that there is a bad effort in this area. But why did the Danish People's Party in the 10 years when they directly governed refugee and immigration policy • what they did under the VK government • not provide a good integration effort? Why didn't the Danish People's Party do that when they had the power to do it themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512153925	If you look at the influx of asylum and the number of family reunifications, you will see that then it fell quite significantly as the Danish People's Party was the support party for the former bourgeois government. That's what we made sure of. In fact, there were also some improvements in terms of integration, in terms of how many people entered the labour market. I know that this was not a very sharp increase, but after all there were some more refugees who entered the labour market, and that was partly because we had the start-up aid. But the most important thing and that's what I'm saying is to limit the influx, and that's what we did. In this way, of course, we created the basis for achieving more sensible integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154001	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154003	Thank you. So DF's conclusion is that the Danish People's Party is not at all in favour of the integration of refugees. The Danish People's Party is in favour of preventing them from coming here and of sending all those we have home. It is, of course, the policy of the Danish People's Party. Then I just don't understand why the government is criticized for having a bad integration effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154028	After all, we have plenty of people in Denmark with immigrant backgrounds, and we have descendants. Some do well, and some do less well. Our point is that if we are ever to get integration up and, if we are to make sure that they are linked more closely to the labour market and more closely to Danish culture and traditions, then we simply have to limit the influx to Denmark. That's our point. After all, we have got a lot of people to Denmark for many, many decades, and that is what we are doing now. Then there were 10 years when the Danish People's Party was a support party for a bourgeois government, where you got a respite. But 10 years with a breathing space in relation to limiting the flow, among other things. Indeed, through the asylum system, we cannot seriously weigh up against the many decades in which we had a very lenient policy. When we only have ten years to tighten up a little and then there comes a government that orders nothing but to relax, it is clear that it will be a little heavy; then it is uphill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154121	Are there any other brief comments? No, thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154138	I'd like to invite you to Maysaa and Ayman. They live on Finlandsvej in Vejle. He escaped here from Syria last year. She and the kids just got here. Sometimes the integration policy in here at Christiansborg tends to go up in numbers. But it's actually about people. I've just been home for lunch at Maysaa and Ayman with the Secretary of State. They had made us the most amazing Syrian food: mint soup, fried kale with chicken, tabouleh, baba ganoush. It was amazing. It was nice and exciting. The kids were cute. The girl had just started school, and the boy was really impatient after it was also to be his turn. The parents dreamed of one thing: working and self-supporting and building a new life. I have a dream that we in this Parliament are beginning to see people as a resource instead of a pestilence. We need to learn from the mistakes we made through the '00s. At that time, refugees were isolated in asylum centres, where they just had to sit and wait. And then you took the money from them and made them poor. It didn't work. Every other non-Western immigrant is now outside the labour market. Every other one! We should not repeat the same mistakes. We are not going back to the failed policy of isolating and impoverishing. We must do the opposite: we must turn the integration effort upside down so that refugees get their feet on the labour market right away. We have to do what we have to do, for example. Vejle, where people are helped from the beginning to get to work instead of doing everything else first and maybe never get to work. If you can work, you have to work. There will be refugees here who are so traumatized that they need help. That's what they're gonna have. But all the refugees I have met in recent months have one thing in common: there is nothing they would rather do than work and support themselves and their families. As Habte from Eritrea said very precisely to me a while ago in the cooling department in Bilka: I have fled from a place where our freedom was taken. Now I have come to Denmark, but I dream of being really free from the municipality and the state. I'll be able to take care of myself. We need to focus on what refugees can do instead of what they can't do. A tailor or shoemaker who comes with experience from Syria must quickly clarify his skills and perhaps have some further training in order to get to work in Denmark. Just like Ayman. He was a shoemaker in Syria and now works as a shoemaker in Vejle. He has been through the course that Vejle offers to all refugees: they first sniff into an industry, get into internship, continue in wage subsidies and, hopefully, in permanent work. Everyone gets through the same thing, and for Ayman it's been quick: he's only been in Vejle since last year. It's good for us as a community every time a fugitive gets to work. But it is also crucial for the person it is about. The best thing about meeting Ayman and the others in Vejle is their hope. They've lost everything. They have fled and risked their lives. They've been breaking up missing from their family. They've lost everything behind them. But education and jobs point forward; it gives them hope and faith in the future. This bill is for you. You've done your best to welcome me. As politicians, we must make similar efforts to learn from our mistakes, not just to make you poor and isolate you, but instead to give you the best opportunities to be free and self-supporting. With this bill we will make Denmark better at giving you a new life with education and jobs where you can contribute. Because this is about people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154623	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment from Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154630	Thank you for a very good speech, which I would like to sign for. I would also like to say that, in a way, I agree that we are very good at talking about the problems that we have in Denmark and not talking enough about the success stories that there are too. And when you don't talk about the whole picture, you don't talk about reality. So I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur is doing so here. But it is also a pity that the Radicals have the right diagnosis to make. It can be said that we have a problem here: there are too many people who do not participate in the labour market and who are outside the community and then you come again and again to the wrong solutions. And you do that to a party that says they listen to economists and then don't do it anyway. Because this is basically about how our system is screwed up. We have put together a system in which the people who come here from third countries have no chance of entering the labour market because they simply cannot sell their labour, and this is about our having very high benefits. It is a pity that people are talking about the fact that when you want to put down the benefits, you want to make some poor people. No, it is about creating a system in which these people, who are being talked about here and who really want to work, also have a real opportunity to do so, and they do not do so with the system we have today. It is no coincidence that we are the worst country for integrating immigrants from third countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154756	The radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154758	However, in the diagnosis, the rapporteur forgets one thing: when we look at the efforts we have made towards the unemployed so far, there is a marked difference between what we have offered to the Danish unemployed and what we have offered refugees. That is exactly what we are going to do with this bill by saying: if we believe that it helps to make a business-oriented effort for the Danish unemployed, then we must give exactly the same opportunities to refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154827	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154827-2	But you have to look at the big picture here. If it was the case that company-oriented efforts and other things were what made Danes just flow into the labour market, that was fine. But we have the same problems with Danes. So, we have far more in working age on transfer income also by ethnic Danes than other highly developed welfare societies have. It's a structural problem. It is our system that also pushes out many Danes, and it just pushes out even more immigrants and refugees, because they have even fewer competences, has even fewer opportunities to sell their labour to 110 DKK. It's an hour. That's what you don't want to address. And that's why, unfortunately, you're never gonna solve this problem. If we do not start to address the structural problems, we will see the same thing: the children of refugees, the children of refugees who grow up in families where the mother and the danger do not go to work and who have all sorts of social problems. The diagnosis is right, but you do not come up with the right solutions, unfortunately, for the people that it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154934	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512154937	But for me, the answer to that is not that we just have to make people poor. In other words, what happened to the poverty benefits that were introduced was that whole families were made poor. There were children who grew up in poverty. That's not what I want from Denmark. On the contrary, I think we should learn from what we have to learn, for example. has done in Vejle, where it is true that there are some of these people who are not worth a full salary at first, but where you work to build people up. For what happens when you meet people with high expectations when people, even if they were far from the labour market, come out and get colleagues, get the success experience and grow, is that there are many more people who can contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155020	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155023	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for a good speech. In fact, I was a little touched until I remembered what this bill really says. For I fully agree with the rapporteur's vision of good integration. We should not see refugees as a nuisance, but as a resource. We should not make the same mistakes that the VKO made when it was said that it would help if we took the money from refugees. Then why is it that the government insists on making the same mistake? This bill means that the benefit to young people under the age of 30 is reduced by DKK 1,000. a month, so that they come down to the level of the start-up aid that we jointly started this parliamentary term with abolishing: DKK 5,800. a month before tax. How, though, could this give the young refugees hope for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155117	Thank you for that question. My opinion on this is that we should put refugees on an equal footing with Danes. This applies both to giving refugees the same opportunities to enter business-oriented services and to get their feet into the labour market, but also to young people. The young refugees must be equal to the young Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155139	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155139-2	After all, my question was as to how it would give the young refugees hope for the future. How is it to reduce their benefits and their livelihoods, which are already incredibly small? I don't think Mrs Lotte Rod would like to live for DKr 6,800. a month as it is today, let alone DKK 5,800. A month, as suggested here, give people hope for the future? And is that a signal from society that says: We see you as a resource, and that's why we put your performance down? Or could the small thought be found in them: Perhaps they still see us as a bit of a nuisance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155223	After all, we have had and can take that discussion again as part of the discussion about our cash assistance system, where we in the government believe that young people who are ready to take an education should what we are discussing here today is our integration effort, and there is our view that we should put refugees on an equal footing with Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155244	Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155248	I would also like to sign that it was a speech from the heart. But one of the things I noticed was that Mrs Lotte Rod said that the biggest dream was to get into work or education. The very greatest dream for a number of the refugees we have must surely be that there will be so much stability in the country of origin that it will be possible to return home. Mrs Lotte Rod also said that she had spoken to someone from Eritrea, and that made me think of something. After all, in January last year there were seven asylum seekers from Eritrea, and in July there were more than 500 applicants from Eritrea. I would just like to ask whether the Radicals think that this is good practice and that it is good policy that a dialogue has been started in the Ministry with Norway on how to reduce the number of refugees from Eritrea.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155342	I have no comment to make on the latter, but on the first point I would like to say that the rapporteur is, of course, quite right: what the refugees dream of first of all is, of course, that there will be peace so that they can return home. But they do know that the situation in Syria unfortunately looks a little hopeless, and therefore the next wish is that at least one can be free and independent and self-supporting during the time one has to be in Denmark. I have also met a number of refugees who say that this is also about the fact that you want to contribute when you have come to Denmark, you will actually be able to contribute to the country while you are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155420	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155423	Mrs Lotte Rod has no comment on that. I think that is quite straightforward politics, in other words, in relation to whether you think it is okay and that it is good when there is a ministry in your own government that is addressing another country that has managed to reduce the number of refugees. We must immediately be able to deal with this politically and say whether we think it is really fine or whether it is something worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155451	I simply do not know enough about who has done what and with what reasons and why. I am of the opinion that it is important for us to maintain in some of these areas that there is an arm stretched out, and that is why I have no comment to make on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155505	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155507	I too would like to thank you for a pleasant and well prepared speech. It's a pleasure to listen to these things. How will the radical rapporteur explain the paradox that tens of thousands of Eastern Europeans are able to come to Denmark and sell their labour while we have tens of thousands of people living in this country from non-Western countries who are unable to get and, at least, have not got a job in this country? How does the radical rapporteur explain the paradox?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155539	I think some of the explanation lies in the fact that we have gone wrong to these people. When we look back at what was done to the people who are not at work today, we see that two things were done: firstly, they were isolated in the asylum centres, where they were not allowed to do anything, and secondly, they took the money from them and made them poor. I do not think we should go back to that. On the contrary, we need to look at what we in the municipalities have from good experience of getting people into work. It works when you get your foot inside, when you build up a staircase, where you might start by coming out and sniffing internship, then get on with wage subsidies and then get ready to get into permanent work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155621	Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155624	But could it also be related to the fact that, as far as East Europeans are concerned, they come from some countries that I do not need to be aware of what passive cash aid systems have, but they can at least see an attraction in coming to Denmark and working, while we have created a system for non-western immigrants that we have in this country, who can have a high passive support and thus do not find it attractive to find a job? Could there not be an economic incentive challenge in the huge paradox we see between East Europeans and non-Western immigrants in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155706	But for me, this is a general discussion about whether working is worthwhile, and we would like to enter into that discussion. That is also why we have been involved in a tax reform. But that does not change the fact that I think there is an important lesson we should learn from the way we have gone to integration efforts so far. You know, you've had this relatively long period of integration where you have to learn Danish, and you have to clean up a whole lot of things before you might get to that job thing, and maybe you never get to it. That is exactly what we are turning our heads now, and we say that the best integration is done by starting with getting a foot in the labour market and learning Danish at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155751	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512155802	Thank you. In the SF, we are positive about this proposal, which is an attempt to ensure that more refugees and immigrants get to work more quickly. When you travel around and visit asylum centres in this time, you meet some of the people that this bill is about. When you've escaped from war and horror, what's most important is for the people I've talked to to to get a normal everyday life again. It's being with their family, it's getting to work. But we also have to say that a great many of these people come from countries where there is no state that is holding hands under them and they have an expectation of having to work. I think it is important that we do not repeat the mistakes we have experienced in the integration efforts of the last few decades, which, unfortunately, have meant that very many refugees and immigrants are today stuck on public support. The government proposes that participants in the integration programme who receive cash or training assistance should take jobs from the first day, and if they do not succeed in obtaining a job, they must in a business-oriented offer where they, among other things, have to. can be put into business practice or useful jobs. We think it is positive that it is proposed that refugees should be more quickly employed, but in the SF we would have liked to have a more targeted integration process, with more emphasis being placed on real jobs rather than on all kinds of aid that could be pointless. I also think there are several municipalities that have said that the problem of finding useful jobs is immensely difficult. After all, we have on several occasions proposed that we specifically qualify refugees and immigrants to take some of the jobs where the Eastern Europeans have gained a foothold in Denmark. These are jobs where there are often less demands on education or language, and there are 100,000 Eastern Europeans who have managed to get their feet on Danish jobs. I am, of course, talking about jobs where wages are also covered by collective agreements. I think it is a depressing integration story that we have not got our refugees and immigrants dressed up to compete for these jobs too. We would like to see a map of the sectors in which the Eastern Europeans are, and then a targeted training programme in these industries was set up when there was a job to get. We are not talking about the East Europeans being kicked out of their jobs, but it is simply about knocking at companies and saying: Next time there is a job available here, we take on the task of getting a refugee or immigrant qualified so that they can take the job in your company. But we also think there is one thing missing from this proposal. A great many of the refugees we receive are war victims. They come to Denmark with trauma and torture damage, and we also believe that a prerequisite for many to get to work is that we do more in relation to the treatment of trauma. A great many of them have ptsd, anxiety attacks, depression, insomnia and mistrust of other people, not least authorities, as a result of what they have been subjected to. So we think it would have been good if we could have had a real debate on this proposal so that we could also do something at the trauma and torture centres and gear them to receive many of these new citizens we are getting. Then there is the proposal for early clarification and searching of refugees. We think that is very positive. I was in Sønderborg with the committee to see how to approach it there, and the announcement is that Dansk Industri has gone into this with a curved neck in Sønderborg and helps to identify what refugees can actually do, so refugees are ready to jump into it in the municipalities and into the labour market if they have any skills that can be used. We think that's a really, really good idea. It's about getting started quickly. So, overall, the SF can support the proposal, although we will also work on some elements of it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160235	Thank you. There is one more brief remark. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160238	Thank you. Does SF really think it is a good idea to force refugees into useful jobs and business practices, where they are going to do work that is covered by collective agreements, for example. 3F and FOA it will probably typically be them but where the refugees just don't get collective pay or have the other rights that come with an agreement, for example. the right to elect a representative of trust? Does SF really think this is a good idea? And does the SF think that it is something that benefits integration that refugees enter the labour market in the way that they are not equal to colleagues?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160314-2	There is no doubt that if we could have chosen, we might have looked a little less at useful jobs and a little more at real jobs. That is also some of what we have been out to say in this debate. As I now remember useful jobs, but I am not an expert on the labour market, I believe that it is in the concept of useful jobs that they should not crowd out work covered by collective agreements. So that should have been taken into account. And that could be a shortcut for some to get into a real job. But I think that we should have invested in the sectors where the East Europeans are, because there are obviously some opportunities there which we do not think have been cultivated enough in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160357	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160359	Thank you. But now SF has the opportunity to choose. You can choose not to vote for such a thing. That's what I wanted to ask you about. It sounds as if the rapporteur is not particularly fond of this model, but then you can not vote for it. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to deal with the tasks of clearing beaches, helping in day care institutions and in nursing homes, and the reform of cash benefits has mentioned many other examples of a similar nature. Does the rapporteur agree that it is jobs covered primarily by FOA and 3F and that this proposal, like the reform of cash benefits, is that people are forced to work in such jobs as are covered by collective agreements, but that they are not paid for by collective agreements? That is, of course, the crux of the matter, and I would like the rapporteur to deal with that. Is that not what we call social dumping in other contexts, which we, fortunately, agree to combat?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160459	We in the SF are in no way in favour of social dumping, and for us it is very much in this that we would like the refugees to get out into collective industries. I am not going to be smart about how to set up the useful jobs in all municipalities. I simply do not have an overview of that. However, if it displaces collective covered jobs, it should not be possible to do useful jobs in that area. And as I understand it, it's also a discussion with the trade unions around the municipalities. At least in my municipality, which is Kolding Municipality, you have it to find out where the cut is in terms of what you can stuff into these useful jobs. However, as I said, I may not think that this is the best construction. We would have liked to have seen a little more bet on real jobs. And we also think that we had some suggestions in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160552	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks right now. The next speaker is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512160613	Thank you. There are good things in this bill. This applies to the proposal for a rapid declaration of competence so that the refugees will be able to use their training immediately. This applies to increased use of mentors, which allows for a handheld effort, where you help the person from where the person is now. It is also good that refugees should have only one case officer; it is so sad that it must be written in a legislative proposal. Vulnerable people who do not even know the Danish language should of course not use their scarce resources to find their way around the municipal maze. It is good that from day one refugees are given the opportunity to get an ordinary work on contractual terms, and it is true that the waiting time at asylum centres needs to be better spent and better communication with the municipality. All this is moving in the direction of good integration. On the other hand, there are a number of other things in the draft law that are moving in exactly the opposite direction. The refugees will be obliged to act as wage printers, free labour in useful jobs and business practices. It is bad integration that they are not equal to colleagues in terms of pay and other rights, for example. also the right to elect a representative of the shop steward. They only have duties, they have no rights. Moreover, it is a really bad idea to teach refugees that to enter the Danish labour market one must be willing to work for free. And don't say it's not going to displace ordinary jobs. The examples mentioned in the bill • clean up beaches, help in day care institutions and in nursing homes • are all jobs covered by the agreement of 3F and FOA. Why, then, should the refugees not receive collective pay when carrying out their duties? Because the bill is a savings exercise. What will it do for integration, that young people under 30, who are ready for jobs and training, will in future have 1,000 DKK. less a month, so they have to survive on a service that is at the level of the start-up aid that we shared here in the red block, as they call it, to abolish in 2011, and which we are now criticising the bourgeois parties for wanting to reinstate if they gain power? Does the government really believe that it should increase young people's chances of getting a job or getting better at Danish, that they get less to live for? I do not think the government does that because, like the reform of the social security system, it is a saving exercise. The so-called targeting of performance grants is also a bad idea. The municipality is rewarded for quick access to jobs and training... it could in itself and in isolation be sensible... but it is financed by halving the result grant for the passed test in Danish. This model favours municipalities that have a large share of job-ready refugees and a labour market that will receive them, but it penalises the other municipalities that do not have the opportunities. And by the way, it can lead everyone to neglect Danish education, which will damage the long-term integration effort. The short one is that the improvements in the bill are financed by the refugees themselves, especially through the lower benefits to young people under the age of 30, and that is totally pointless. This is because the draft law is based on the same delusions that lie behind the reforms of unemployment benefits, early retirement, flexible jobs, sickness benefits and cash benefits, namely that if we simply increase the pressure and the so-called financial incentives, they will be healthy and, moreover, they will get to work on a large scale. After all, the vast majority of this group are people with serious traumas and other sufferings who can't just contest an ordinary job. The results of the benefit reform speak its clear language of the fact that this is not the way things are, that is to say, that people just get to work because they are being pressured financially. Fifty thousand have lost their right to cash benefits so far. On a good day it is approx. 20% get a job for a shorter or longer period of time. There are no considerations in the proposal on how to open up the labour market to the 30,000 refugees or how many it is now that the government has the ambition to get to work on this proposal. There is nothing about what will be required of employers. Employers only have rights: the right to obtain free labour; they have no duties. Here the government could learn something from the initiative that Enhedslisten has just made, and which we call "Space for all" a good old social democratic slogan. There are concrete proposals on how to create real jobs for people who cannot work a hundred percent and how to use whip and carrot to employers, so that those who take social responsibility are rewarded and let the lazy pay. That's the kind of thing that's perspective in. There is none of that in the draft law, and we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161057	There is one for a brief remark. Sir. Eigil Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161102	As the SF rapporteur has said, we would like to see more emphasis placed on ordinary work which was subject to Danish pay and working conditions in terms of collective agreements. But I really would like to ask Mr. Finn Sørensen, whether what Enhedslisten says here really means that Enhedslisten believes that any type of company practice, any form of wage subsidy jobs, any kind of useful job in Denmark should be abolished? The reason I ask is that there is, after all, between an unemployed person and a potential employer a four-mile gap which, as an unemployed person who would like to have contact with an employer, cannot jump over. And although there are a number of difficulties with some of these models and it also gives rise to a certain amount of abuse, in our view, it is the case that, under certain circumstances, particularly in the private sector, contact with an employer may lead to the unemployed in question getting a job, and the same could happen to some of these refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161202-2	We have the clear position that if you get out to work and do contract covered work, it must be paid after the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161217	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161217-2	It was, unfortunately, a rather unclear answer to a question as to whether Enhedslisten will abolish any kind of wage subsidy work or business practice, but it must be understood that it will. Speaking of what was said a little earlier, I would say that a protection against abuse, for example. could be that the shop steward had to have a right of veto and could prevent such a person from entering the workplace, and if there was no shop steward, one could put the competence in the union. Wouldn't that be a big step forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161248-2	We do not want to abolish the employment measures mentioned by the rapporteur, we are simply saying that they must be carried out on contractual terms. Of course, people must have some offers to get an ordinary job on ordinary terms. The second view on the right of veto is certainly worth considering, and it draws attention to the fact that I can then say to Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt that the right of veto does not exist today. That is why it is not very far to suggest that reference should be made to the fact that before sending people in some useful job or on a business practice, the municipality should discuss it with the shop steward. There is no right of veto for the shop steward to say: no, we must abide by the agreement of the people who work here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161334	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161348	Thank you so much. This is primarily a parade proposal here. It is a proposal designed to fit the large outdoor advertisements that you can see at the country's train stations and S-train stations in these weeks. That's why this bill is being tabled. That is why it is being put forward without making sure that you actually have a majority behind this bill. It must be put forward, because it must fit in with the campaign which is being conducted in these weeks. But one is right, of course, that there is a huge problem in Denmark in terms of integrating immigrants into the Danish labour market. In fact, Denmark is the worst country for integrating immigrants into the labour market, immigrants from third countries. We simply have the lowest level of employment of all highly developed welfare societies. Why is that? Yes, a lot of people are fond of the Danish welfare society, and there is also a lot to be happy about, but we never talk about the price of the welfare society. We never talk about the model we have chosen having a shadow side, and the shadow side is that with the very high social benefits, the world's highest cash assistance, high unemployment benefits, etc. In Denmark, a system has been created which has put pressure on minimum wage levels very high. All the people, be they Danes and people of different ethnic backgrounds from Danish, whether immigrants from third countries, who cannot sell their labour to the high minimum wages, are squeezed out of the labour market, out of the working community. They have no chance of participating in the labour market, and they are doomed to a life of transfer income with all that it entails from social risks. We know that the risk of social problems, of abuse problems is much greater when you are on transfer income for a long time. Unfortunately, we also know that there is a huge social legacy in the transfer income system, i.e. children of parents who have been on transfer income for a long time, have 40%. greater risk of even ending transfer income. That is the major problem in Denmark. That's what we don't want to talk about, and that's what too many parties in this thing aren't gonna do anything about. We simply have to look at the way we have arranged ourselves. We have to look at the fact that it cannot be the case from now on and in the future that such a large proportion of Danish citizens live on transfers, are outside the labour market, are permanently outside the labour market. The Rockwool Foundation has estimated that the high benefits in Denmark push up to 40%. of immigrants from third countries out of the labour market. In other words, if you go into a class where there are ten immigrant children, the four of them can look forward to a life of transfer income. It's a disaster of dimensions. That's about. 20% by the Danes, who are squeezed out of the labour market because of the high transfer income. This means that out of ten Danish schoolchildren, two of them can look forward to a life on transfer income. It's a disaster. Each year, immigrants from third countries cost us 17 billion. kr. kr. Every year. It's a disaster. That, of course, is something we need to be able to talk about, and so do we. I would also like to admit that, of course, we are talking a great deal about the problems, and we must do so, but we also forget that there are a great many success stories, and then, as the radical rapporteur said earlier, we forget that these are real people. It is therefore only our view that the sympathy, if you really want to do something good for people, is to set up the system in such a way that they have a chance to become genuine self-supporting, not that you have to go into useful jobs and all sorts of government and municipal projects, but that you have a real chance to engage in the labour market, that you have a real chance to sell your labour to an employer who actually wants to buy it, or start your own business. The way we set up the system today, there are just too few people who get the chance. The solution is to make structural reforms, to reform our transfer income system, which at least shows respect for the agreements reached in the labour market. It is of course no use that we have transfer income in Denmark, which is above the wage level agreed between the two sides of industry. That is what really needs to be done. That's what makes it possible for us to reverse this trend, because this is something we've been talking about for 20-30 years. It's not a new problem. The level of employment among immigrants from third countries has been miserable in Denmark over the past many decades, and nobody dares to address the fundamental issues, and it is true that that is what makes so many unfortunately outside. Neither does that proposal, which is why we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161915	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512161935	Thank you. I can start by saying that the Conservative People's Party cannot back the bill, and the reasons are several. From the outset, we agree with the objective of more immigrants working, so overall we can support that objective, but we are concerned about the method and the tools used here for several reasons. I think that the most important reason for this is that we fundamentally disagree with the government on how to achieve the best possible integration. From the Conservative People's Party's point of view, we want to make demands, we want to reinstate both a cash aid ceiling and the start-up aid, because we could see that it helped to get more people into work. The government, on the other hand, wants to provide a higher level of service and creates artificial support schemes. There are two reasons why we do not support this proposal. Firstly, we believe that it is a rather old-fashioned approach and thinking when integration policy alone operates through labour market policy. It is a little 1990's-like or a little 00's-like for being in a workplace does not do so alone. It is very important that you get Danish values under your skin, and today it is the case that you can easily go to work without participating in the working community or at least not participating with the Danish colleagues in the workplace, go home, for example, in a ghetto area where you live, and otherwise be completely secluded from Danish society. And that doesn't make you Danish. Danskhed is also the active citizenship, it is the parent community in the crèche and in the classrooms where the parents come and participate in the work with their young, it is the voluntary association life, it is the involvement in the community • all that helps to get Danishness under the skin. Then I do not quite know whether it is because the government does not think it is so important; there is quite a bit in the report about this, but it is not something where there is very concrete action. Then we have to say that the government's integration efforts have failed, and the biggest failure is the abolition of the Ministry of Integration. In the past, there was a systematic approach to integration, and now it is becoming so dispersed. When the Socialist rapporteur was on the floor, I also asked a question, which actually shows very well why it is spreading. For last year's stake pool negotiations, the Conservative People's Party wanted money to be set aside to give priority to a project organised by the DIF called Get2sport. If you had now had a ministry, you could have made a coordinated and coherent and holistic effort. Instead, I saw it as a pool rapporteur, and I think several of the rapporteurs did so, and there was no such clear, coordinated action on integration policy. The next reason why we are rejecting this proposal is that the proposal represents another kind of artificial support system, in which a particular group is at the forefront of the queue. We are not fooling around with the artificial subsidies, and the government keeps making them. Among other things, there were: the emergency package, where the longterm unemployed were to be ahead of the queue. If this package had actually worked, it could have meant that young people who were trained were even further behind in the queue, potentially even with longterm unemployment. We wouldn't do that. We have also seen the senior job scheme, how many mayors and also KL have complained that the scheme is inflexible. It makes recruitment difficult and the retention of employees more difficult. And then this new package of 30,000 courses comes to immigrants, and it becomes an expression of the same thinking. Because there's this benefit by activating these long-term unemployed immigrants, and it's just that when somebody comes in front of a queue, some people come in the back of a line. And neither the Minister for Social Affairs nor the Minister for Employment could guarantee that when someone comes in front, there will be no Danes being pushed at the back. When you cannot give such guarantees or give such a handshake, it is probably because it is likely that it can happen. So with the two arguments that it is old-fashioned to think that integration challenges are only solved through labour market policy and that we are not so silly with these artificial support schemes, because it always helps to push some at the front of the queue and thus also some at the back of the queue and we do not want the Danes to be pushed in the back of the queue, so we do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512162421	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512162433	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. Perhaps I should start from what Mai Mercado just said at the end, namely that the government's proposals for integration were an expression of old-fashioned thinking. I would like to say that nothing is going to happen What we are doing with this is, in fact, that we are starting from what I think we have to say that the Folketing has had as common goods for quite a number of years, namely that the integration effort has not had the desired effect. Virtually whatever statistics we are looking at, we have to note that it has not succeeded well enough, and it is, moreover, under changing governments. Therefore, there is, of course, a need to do something new and something different. What we are doing is both new and different and, at the same time, well-known. What we are just ensuring with this bill now is that the best out there in the municipalities now becomes legislation. Now we are doing this: we are already taking care of the refugees who come here in the reception centres, first of all assessing their competence, so that when they come into the municipalities, the municipalities have a much better basis for further action. We are doing what I think is absolutely crucial: we are building on and respecting what the individual refugee brings as his background. So, until now, it has been a little bit like, if you came and announced that you were a carpenter, everyone has more or less pulled on their shoulders and continued on without taking any further action. If you come here today and say that you are a carpenter or a Laborant, we start with exactly what you have in your luggage and make a real assessment of your competence. So instead of having to start over, you may have the opportunity to find the way to become a carpenter in Denmark more quickly. Then we do it for all groups that are absolutely crucial: we make a business-oriented effort. Whatever you look at from experience, it is very clear that getting out and living life where the Danes are in the community life I have to return to it and out at work is the best form of integration that exists at all. Furthermore, let me say to the debate between SF and Enhedslisten along the way that we are going first and foremost to ensure that as many people as possible get into perfectly ordinary jobs, and those we do not succeed with, we then have the measures for which I am partly describing now, part is described in the draft law. However, if it has not succeeded after a year, what I had almost said is what we are using next gear. Then the rehabilitation team comes into action, and this is where you look at the whole human being with education, health and jobs. Finally, and this is perhaps especially for Mrs Mai Mercado, not in this integration game, but in the very issue that the government was making, a great focus on civil society. It is because I agree that civil society, the association Denmark, can make a significant contribution. Moreover, we say to those who have been here, with a non-Western background, and have been on cash aid after they have finished the integration programme, that we are now giving it a second chance, and once again precisely with the business-oriented efforts, because we know that that is what is useful. There were many exciting posts, there were some good posts, and there were some comments that I would like to take as a starting point. I must say that I was very pleased with Mr. Martin Henriksen's beginning of his speech. For even Mr. Martin Henriksen could not fail to say at the outset: there may be elements that seem reasonable. Those, however, were great words from Mr. Martin Henriksen's side, but I really think it is a very symptomatic recognition that some tools are being used here which can then work. Well, I guess that's what Mr. Martin Henriksen and I disagreed with most of the rest of the speech, but that's fair enough, that's the way it is. But it was a good realization that came here. I thank Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for the things that were. There were also some things that were mentioned that we could discuss further, but by the way I agreed with the points you had. To Mr. Finn Sørensen I would say that this is the thing about weighing it: What weighs the most? It was quite clear what weighed the most for Mr. Finn Sørensen, but I just wanted to say that it can't be a surprise. For the instruments, for which there has been a very broad majority in the Folketing, which are about bringing back those who are either outside the labour market or on the edge of the labour market, reject the Enhedslisten, and so it is. And there's not much you can do about that. But I just want to say that the discussion about wage printing etc. I don't have anything on him, and I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, that if that's the argument you're making, then you really become your own worst enemy, because then you don't give up and that's it, sir. Eigil Andersen's question perhaps referred to the people on the edge of the labour market a chance to come back again. To Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, I just want to say that this has nothing to do with a parade proposal. I just think that when mr. Joachim B. Olsen uses such strong words in connection with it, it's again, because we basically disagree on what this society should look like. We have done away with the poverty benefits that were, for we do not believe in them, as both the radical and the Socialist rapporteur have said so well in their rapporteur's speeches. Then there was mr. Martin Geertsen. There were also elements here that I thought were interesting, and then there were other areas where we could not reach each other. I think it has to be said that when it comes to benefits, we disagree. But what I think is the big and important question is: is there a majority or is there not a majority in the Folketing that will make a different effort than the one we have seen so far that does not work? Is there a majority or is there not a majority in the Folketing that is determined that the 6,000 who are out in the municipalities, and the more who are on the way in the municipalities, should continue to have the effort which, or should we as Parliament, before we go on summer holidays, adopt this integration bill, which then means that those who are already out there and those who are on the way will have a different, more handheld and more direct effort? That is what the debate is all about. We have tried to take some of the flexibility that has been in relation to the municipalities and ensure that it remains present. We have, in fact, followed the line that the Left put back in 2011, and we have provided for something else that I also think is important, and that is that we have achieved a balance between our efforts in terms of integration and the reforms that we have made, not least the cash aid reform. Harmony has now been created between them. There may be corners on which we can agree or disagree, but what is absolutely crucial, and what will in any case be left behind, is whether we should give a new start to the many refugees who are out there and who would like to become part of the fact that Danish society, from 1 June, knows that we are adopting this bill, or whether we should keep it as it is out there at the moment, which we all agree is not working. I also hope and believe that we will succeed in giving them a new start in terms of integration. I really think that we all deserve that, not least the people we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163254	Four comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is sir. Martin Henriksen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163301	Thank you. I would like to admit that there may then be elements in the proposal here which may seem very sensible, namely when, for example, we are dealing with the question of the right to vote in local elections. talk of the possibility of providing mentor support in some cases, and if no good work has been done after one year, there is the possibility of a personal job or training provider. But the point from here is, and I don't understand why it doesn't penetrate with the government, that as long as there are so many people coming to Denmark, we can throw enough money after different integration projects, we can initiate enough initiatives and adopt enough legislative proposals in the Danish Parliament, but if you don't limit the influx to Denmark, then the task is insurmountable for the municipalities. It can't be done. All experience in this area shows that if there are too many people from countries which are in different areas far away from Denmark culturally etc., it causes massive integration problems. That is why we appeal to the Danish People's Party's Government to control immigration to Denmark and then to discuss the integration measures. Why do the Socialists no longer believe that the number plays a role? When you say that the number plays a role, does that mean that you actually think that the more that comes, the better it is? I think there's something that doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163419	Now it is so, and it is not a flight of responsibility, and I believe that Mr. Martin Henriksen is well aware that we have different ministers in different regions of the region. Exactly what's about the condition for getting here is another minister's resort area, so I'm not going to get myself into it. That would not be fair and fair, but I have followed the debate on the austerity that has been here. I do not understand that argument. Now it is the case that we have the worst refugee situation since World War II, and at least for many, many years, and this is not just for Denmark. This applies to a number of European countries where there are quite a lot of Syrian refugees at the moment. I think there's only that to say, sir. Martin Henriksen, that it is to close your eyes to the facts, that you will not help to ensure that those who come here will be met with a different effort, which will enable them to become part of this society, and so that they can contribute to this society. Moreover, I am convinced that by far, the vast majority, if not all, would very much like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163519	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163522	Almost every year this is discussed here, I am tempted to say, it is almost an example of that being the worst refugee situation in X number of years. There will always be wars and conflicts in the world. You have to deal with that in the way you think you handle it best. You have to help people as best you can, but at the same time you have to do what you think is best for Denmark. I just can't understand how you can just stand and look at from the government that there are so many people coming to Denmark without doing anything effective about it, and then you come up with an action that is about integrating them, when you know when all experience shows that it is utopia. I really think that the Minister's answer illustrates very well what the problem is, because the government is running in two tracks. One clue is that there are some ministers in the government who allow so many people to come to Denmark, and then the Minister for Employment gets an ungrateful job. They say: please integrate all of them. However, I think it would be a little collegiate if the colleagues of the Minister for Employment were to ensure that the task was a little affordable. That is what we are asking from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163627	That is certainly what colleagues are doing. I think there is a lot of contradiction in what Mr. Martin Henriksen now says we're gonna let it go. That's exactly the opposite of what this bill is all about. We're not doing it. We're not gonna let it go. You might say that you have done this in previous years, in the previous many years. Now, in fact, there is a government that does not allow itself to stand by, which is just beginning to use exactly the tools that we know from experience are working out there in the municipalities, which we know is what brings this group of people closer to the labour market. It is certainly not enough, it is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163705	The next brief remark is Mrs Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163709	After all, the Minister for Employment says that this is not an old-fashioned way of thinking. I do not want to call the Minister for Employment old-fashioned, but it is very difficult to imagine that it alone is enough to have a palette of labour market policy tools to ensure good integration. I just thought that, like that, we agreed that something more needed to be done, and that it's also important to have this Danishness. When it is that you look at the initiatives that the government is proposing in its plan, there is a project that is in 5 municipalities, a project that is in 40 municipalities, and some loose wordings that everyone should take on active citizenship, and some wordings that no municipalities can disagree with. And then it's actually just that I'm asking: if there's anything more coming at some point, because this can be a very nice start to getting the Danish values under the skin, but if there's a package, we'll have to expect a package more, which is like 2.0, or the modern version of the integration policy, where you get connected, that not just being in work gives value in terms of integration, but also the fact that Danishness in itself gives value?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163824	Now there may be some who are old-fashioned and there may be youthful courage that may not have so much experience in them. You can discuss that back and forth. But may I say to Mai Mercado about the very thing about the Danishness that I am not going to make a definition of the Danishness, but I think that there are at least two places that are absolutely crucial if you are to understand Danish society, and that is to be out at a very ordinary workplace, get work colleagues and understand how the Danish labour market works. And what exactly we are doing here, I would say to Mrs Mai Mercado, is that we combine Danish education with business-oriented action. This means that if you are going into business practice down in the local supermarket in the green department, we get it combined with exactly the Danish you need there, because it is very sensible to know what green pepper and banana are called in Danish if you are going to a supermarket green department. The second part, which is also in relation to Danishness, if you can use that expression, is precisely the focus on the whole of civil society. I don't remember the amount of 100 percent, but I think it's 40 million. kr., which is actually devoted to reinforcing all the efforts that volunteer Denmark is contributing to, and which I agree with is very good in terms of integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163943	The next brief remark is Mr. Finn Sørensen. I'm sorry. The questioner on the second brief remark. I couldn't see this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512163948	Well, I'd like to thank you very much for the compliment, because it must be. It is precisely a reference to a politician who until recently was at work, was out in real life and knows what it is like, namely that it is not only that you are at work, but that you must also contribute that you must be part of a collegiate community in the workplace. So I thank you very much for that compliment. But I would just like to ask a few questions about this because I also asked the Minister because we had a short meeting, and I would also like to ask here in the Chamber: can the Minister guarantee that when these procedures are to be implemented for immigrants, there is not a single Dane who is being pushed in the back of the queue and thus does not get a company practice or whatever it may be? Can the Minister here promise that no Danes at all will be affected by this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164049	I have no problem with compliments when it is the case that there is reason to give them. I also believe that the rapporteur must agree that an important place to learn how to understand Danish society is actually at work. And then I have to ask: I know that the Conservative People's Party, and I would say fortunately for that, is included in some of the reforms that we have, among other things. In the field of cash aid, too, and what we are now creating here is the symmetry between the field of cash aid and the area of integration. What is true is that today, with a non-western background, those with a refugee background, are getting a much less entrepreneurial effort than those with an ethnic Danish background. And that is perhaps one of the reasons why the figures are exactly as they are, and that is also why we have it precisely as one of the cornerstones of our efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164140	The next brief remark is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164144	Thank you. I heard the Minister say that the people we are talking about here will not enter the labour market if we do not force them to work for cash aid, as is the case with the reforms that have been made here too. The Enhedslisten totally disagrees, and that is also contradicted by reality. In fact, we have a senior job scheme in which the long-term unemployed with the right to benefit work on contractual terms in a job created for that purpose and where they do some socially useful work. Before 2013, we had a flexible job scheme which meant that people with disabilities worked on equal terms. I would urge the Minister to study the proposal that Enhedslisten has just made, which we call "Space for all." I think it's a headline that says something to the Minister. Then the Minister will be able to see that there are a number of proposals on how we can help people who have reduced their working capacity for one reason or another, including probably many refugees, into the labour market without it crowding out ordinary jobs, and so that they do so under contractual conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164252	Now that's the way I'm gonna say to Mr. Kim. Finn Sørensen, that even if you use a Social Democratic slogan, you do not necessarily become a Social Democrat even though there is nothing wrong with the slogan. I just wanted to say that I believe that Mr. Finn Sørensen and I have a very different view of what is helping these groups back into the labour market. I would like to say that I feel that I am prepared to use all the instruments in the toolbox to ensure that these groups return to the labour market. I know that the best way to become part of Danish society, and the best way, if you cannot go directly into ordinary jobs, is to be helped along the way, and the very best help you can get is to get out and test your skills and qualifications in a private company. I'm ruthless about using these things because I'm thinking about these people. I want to ensure that they have proper conditions, namely that they become part of Danish society and they become part of the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164352	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164355	Thank you. Although a good old social democratic slogan is used, it does not indicate that there is any ambition to become a social democrat, especially today's social democrats, who, as the Minister himself says, have become ruthless towards people with reduced working capacity and ruthless in ensuring that when they enter the labour market, it is done under contractual conditions. After all, we have the merit of seeing what the job effect really is of the reforms that have been made and which are based on these principles that Enhedslisten fundamentally disagrees with. I have asked the Minister some questions in order to clarify some of this, and that is something that needs to be done in relation to this bill, and we can then take it from an experience point of view. However, I also think that we should have some measurements of the real effect of sending refugees to businesses without being equal to their colleagues. I don't think that's a good idea. I do not believe that this is conducive to integration. Well, we'll see that along the way. But still away, Minister, spend half an hour studying the Enhedslisten's proposal, and if there are some subjects in it that the Minister would like to negotiate, we are ready, any hour and just in the second. The minister's calling, I'm definitely gonna jump. So I'll wait by the phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164521	I always like to spend the minutes to learn how to understand Enhedslisten's suggestions. There should be no doubt about that. I would like to make this very clear once again. Yes, I want to be ruthless, I want to be ruthless in giving people a chance in bringing them closer to the labour market. That is why I would like to use the instruments in the toolbox to ensure that. We also know most recently from the Carsten Koch Committee, Phase 2, that getting close to a workplace, meeting real colleagues, finding out how life is going on both in the job and in the cafeteria and everything else, is what brings people closer to the labour market. So right there I have so much empathy for these people that I would like to use the instruments that are so that they can become an active part of Danish society for the benefit of Danish society, but certainly also for their own benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164607	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164611	After all, the Minister is not the first Minister of Employment in the history of Denmark to stand on this platform and say that we are now doing something about it, that we have problems with integration and that the level of employment among immigrants from third countries is far too low. This has happened countless times before, and nothing so now I ask the Minister for Employment who is now standing on the platform: how much will this move? What's the rate of employment after this? Is it 1%? in the positive direction, 2%, 3%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164651	Well, I know, I'd say to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that if we continue as we have done so far, it will be virtually only negative figures. And it is true that there is not a percentage in the bill, also because this is difficult. That is why one can then discuss whether we should choose to say that we will not do anything, but there it is, the government has the opposite view of it and says: No, what we are doing now is using the instruments that we have a belief in working. And this is exactly what's going on and carried by the fact that it's a business-oriented effort not only for those who are ready for work, but also for those who are ready for activity. I believe that will have an effect and I do not really have a moment in doubt that it will have an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164739	I've got the last of the speeches for now, sir. Martin Geertsen, I'm sorry. That is the questioner's second comment. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164746	Denmark is the worst country for integrating immigrants into the labour market. There is simply no society in the Western world which has such a miserable level of employment as we have here in Denmark. Is it due to a lack of resources in active employment? Is it due to a lack of integration projects? No, it doesn't. On the contrary, there is no society that spends as much money on the kind of efforts that are being made in Denmark, yet we have the worst employment rate among immigrants from third countries. What is the basic reason for this, according to the Minister for Employment? What are some structural problems in Danish society that make us worse at it than other highly developed welfare societies, even societies that receive far more immigrants than we do? What, in the view of the Minister for Employment, is the reason why it is so bad in Denmark and has been doing so for decades?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164853	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164854	I'd like to admit that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen usually has the paperwork in order. But I do not know the study which proves that Denmark is the worst country in the world, I just want to say. But we can, of course, exchange experiences about that at some point. But I recognise that we have not done well enough, because if we had, there was no reason for us to stand here today. I recognise that when I look at the figures coming out of an otherwise generous 3-year integration programme, I can see that that is not good enough. That is also why, I would say, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, that if you look at it, you will see that the government's proposal here is not an ideological proposal. I would really like to see it as a snug proposal which is based on the best we have seen, among other things. in the municipalities. Then we have added something, and then we make sure that the best effort is now going to cover the whole country. It is for me to see simple common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164947	Then it'll be mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512164950	Thank you. Although every time we raise this issue of the level of benefits, the Minister for Employment says that we are just disagreeing here, so let us stop that discussion, I do not think that discussion will stop for that reason. The Minister is right to say that people are coming to this country on a very different basis. But one thing I am quite sure that refugees who come to this country are not on the move is full cash aid where they come from. Now, the radical rapporteur could not quite answer the question, I think, that may be the Minister for Employment, because the huge paradox lies in the fact that we have a lot of Eastern European labour in this country, tens of thousands of Eastern Europeans, while we have a lot of people from non-western countries who are on full cash aid. What does the Minister think is the explanation for this integrational, foreign policy paradox?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165045-2	I do not think the benefit discussion is going away, and I think it should continue. I think it will be excellent, for example. The left becomes a little more concrete in relation to what a modern cash assistance system is. Then we can have a more proper debate on it. But I must also say to Mr. Martin Geertsen, it's been tried. Well, we've had a cash-aid ceiling, 450-hour rule, etc., and when I look at those numbers, there's no evidence to say it was a brilliant success. But there is evidence to say that there were some people who became poor in this society, and there were some children who grew up in poverty. I would like to admit that, of course, I am concerned that so many of the refugees we are talking about here should not go through all the processes we are talking about here, but should go straight out and have a job. Anyone who can do that, of course. But I also recognise that there is a reason for fleeing, and you have something in your luggage that means that there are probably some people who need a handheld effort along the way. And that is why the effort that is then being made, the hand-held effort, must be one that has been carried out with care, and that is exactly what the government's integration proposal is: what we know works: on the individual company.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165157	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165159	If I am going to use the rhetoric of the Minister of Employment, would I like to hear how it can be that with this proposal the government is making people under 30 years of age poor while people over 30 years of age are not being made poor?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165213	I'd like to say to Mr. Martin Geertsen, I assume that the Left still agrees with the cash benefits reform. I hope so. What we're doing here is creating symmetry in it. Therefore, we also say to young people with refugee backgrounds: If you are ready for education, young people, then of course the right way for you is to get an education. What we are doing here is exactly to treat this group, as we treat ethnic Danes in the cash aid system and exactly send that signal also to young people with refugee background: if you are under 30 years of age and are educationally prepared, that is the way you should go; then that is where your opportunities to bite your way on the Danish labour market are, and if you can eventually get home to your home country, then you have some completely different prerequisites if you have an education. So we've just created symmetry in it. And I really hope that the Left is still full of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165304	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165326	Before opening the negotiations, I would like to remind you of our speaking time. During the previous point, a lot of people didn't really think that 30 seconds is 30 seconds. The debate is open and I give the floor to the first rapporteur, Mr President. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165411	Thank you. On 18 December 2013, we entered into a political settlement on a reform of the sickness benefit system with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Socialist People's Party and the government. The aim was to ensure financial security for sick people, as well as an earlier and better effort. As a follow-up to the reform, the parties to the agreement have decided to extend the possibility for persons with life-threatening serious illness to be entitled to sickness benefit. The purpose of this bill is to amend the rules applicable to persons who have a life-threatening serious illness so as to ensure that they can continue on sickness benefit without a time limit. It is proposed that the rules should be introduced as a temporary scheme running from 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2016, and before 31 December 2016 there should also be an evaluation of whether this amendment to the current law is actually appropriate. It is important for the Left that people with life-threatening illness can concentrate on getting healthy and not, as it is today, risk losing their sickness benefit. The new extension rule in the sickness benefit system gives people with life-threatening serious illness better opportunities to recover and return to work. I would like to stress that it is absolutely crucial for the Left that we work to ensure that people who are ill and who are on sickness benefit recover as soon as possible and return to being part of the labour market. That is the clear focus we need in our sickness benefit system, and in addition to that, of course, we must also ensure that if you have a serious, life-threatening illness, you receive proper treatment and also have a proper support and thus secured sickness benefit. So on that basis, the Left can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165636	Thank you. I do not see anyone making brief remarks, so we will continue in the course of our speeches. The next speaker is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165647	Thank you. It is true, as the rapporteur of the Left has already said, that we made a very broad agreement in the Folketing on the abolition of the duration limitation and some improvements to the sickness benefit system. For the Socialists, it was absolutely crucial in that reform that we should ensure that we could not end up in a situation where we were still ill, but still ended up with DKK 0. on the pocket, as it was with the previous rules. Another very important element was the introduction of this so-called eighth extension option, i.e. the fact that if you had a serious, life-threatening disease, you could be guaranteed sickness benefit regardless of how long you were ill, so that we would not have to see the quite horrible situations we had seen before, how much, very serious cancer sickness was in the hospital while they lost their support. So it was, of course, an absolutely crucial point for the Socialists, on the one hand, that one should not be sick still away and end up with 0 DKK, and, on the other hand, that serious, life-threatening sick people should continue to have sickness benefits. Unfortunately, we saw a little, one might say, special situation which made that when some had been on sickness benefit for a period and then were short-lived and then ended up in a situation where they became very serious, life-threatening sick, they would not be entitled to sickness benefit, but only for job clearance. That's what this bill's gonna fix. This ensures the intention of the original agreement, namely that if you are serious, life-threatening ill, you are also entitled to sickness benefit. We are correcting this both in relation to those who have been briefly informed and in relation to those who have been on the job clearance service, and it is really, really gratifying that we have managed to reach a broad agreement in the conciliation circle that, of course, we must close the gap that was in our agreement that life-threatening seriously ill people could not lose sickness benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165848	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks here either, so the next speaker is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512165856	Thank you, President. This proposal is, as has been said, in the context of the agreement on the abolition of the duration limitation on sickness benefit, where we made the eighth extension option. In this context, it was important for us in the Danish People's Party that those who were seriously ill could continue on sickness benefit. It turned out, among other things, that there was a gap in the law that perhaps no one had really thought about, namely that if you tried hard with the labour market and wanted to return and then you got a relapse in the disease and weren't well anyway, you couldn't get back on sickness benefits. It was not intended that a cancerous person who wanted to see if he had now recovered should be caught in a hole if it turned out that he had not recovered anyway. That's why this bill was then put right so that you can continue on sickness benefit. Of course, the Danish People's Party wholeheartedly supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170001	Thank you. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. We will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Eigil Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170019	I must agree with the other rapporteurs that there have been quite awful situations in which people who have a life-threatening illness, after the old sickness benefit system, were deprived of their income and stood in the master's field often with 0 kr. in income because they could not receive cash benefits either. Fortunately, this was corrected by the sickness benefit reform. What is then happening today is that we are further closing a gap, so that people such as myself, for example, are closed. have been transferred to a job clearance course with resource-taking benefit which, during the job clearance process, receives a life-threatening serious illness and which meets the employment requirement, is entitled to sickness benefit from the municipality. It is good that they also come to those who are entitled to sickness benefit at full rate. Moreover, the very good thing about the scheme that was made in the sickness benefit reform is that the way to continue with sickness benefit at full rate is that you have a statement from your own general practitioner or, for that matter, a treating hospital doctor who says that you have a life-threatening serious illness. Then there are no more demands to be met. Over the years there has been a great deal of discussion and criticism of the medical consultants in the municipalities, and much of that criticism against the municipal medical consultants has also been justified because in some cases they have simply written that it was not true what the general practitioner had written or what the treating hospital doctor had written. There it has a huge value that this arrangement among others. This means that the medical certificate issued that there is a life-threatening serious illness should simply be taken into account. Finally, I would just like to mention that there are various other things in this connection with sickness benefit and resource-cycle benefits that you would like to see differently, for example, there are quite a few people who have an insurance policy that involves continuous payments if they become very ill and that leads to deductions from the resource-cycle benefits. It is a strange rule, and the odd thing is that if the same thing happened while they were receiving sickness benefit, there would not be the same set-off. One can put it in that way that the set-off rules that are in this area are some that are deeply illogical and that should be re-established, and that should be looked at. Some of the organisations have also pointed out this in the consultation responses that have been received on this draft law. However, this is not included in the draft law, and in this way there is always a need for further improvements, and the SF will do so here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170310	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170326	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal. There is undoubtedly an improvement here, but we do think that the ambitions are small and that the will to improve the conditions for seriously ill people can lie in a very small place. The first part of the proposal is intended to benefit the sick with a life-threatening illness which has lost entitlement to sickness benefit because of the limitation of duration. When they re-enter the sick, they are not entitled to sickness benefit, they are only entitled to resource progression benefit in a job clearance process. These very seriously ill people can now choose to receive full sickness benefit instead of the resource progression benefit. It's fine. The second part of the proposal was intended to accommodate the sick with life-threatening diseases that are already in the course of job clearance when it is found that they have a life-threatening disease. However, as we read the bill, it is designed in such a way that the majority of this group of life-threatening diseases does not meet the conditions for sickness benefit. In fact, it is a condition that they must meet the employment requirement of at least 240 hours of work in the last six months, and in five of these months they must have at least 40 hours of work each month. What is the intention of the patient with the life-threatening illness to meet this employment requirement when he or she has received sickness benefit for at least 22 weeks prior to the job clearance period? The answer is, neither can the sick person. It is only the sick who are still in an employment relationship that can meet the employment requirement when they are in a job clearance process, because when you are employed, wages during sickness, sickness benefit and hours of reimbursement to the employer are included in the employment requirement. If we have understood this correctly, we think it is too little that the Minister has drafted a proposal which is so few in benefit and contains such a great deal of discrimination against very sick people with life-threatening illness. If the government is serious about this and really wants to help people with life-threatening illness, then all sick people with life-threatening illness should be entitled to sickness benefit without exception. We see no reason why it should be a temporary arrangement. It should, of course, be a permanent arrangement. We can agree with the administrative facilitations that lie in it and that there is no offsetting of income relating to periods prior to or after a resource or job clearance process, but we are opposed to deduction of education and resource development benefits from post-paid holiday allowances. We hope that during the work of the committee we can change the unfair discrimination that we see here, of seriously ill people with life-threatening illness. In any case, we have put a question, it has only been sent today, to the Minister so that we can find out whether we understand it correctly. Finally, I would like to say that it is good to see these improvements for those people. One can only rejoice about this, but from the general point of view, the benefit is a little bit pathetic. The government would not honour the electoral promise and the government's basis that the duration limitation for sickness benefit should be abolished. Instead, we had a severe tightening up, so that sickness benefits as a starting point will end after 22 weeks, if the municipality has not just informed the person before the 22 weeks have passed, whether the person is well or not, because we are getting an increasing number of examples of this from outside trade unions and social workers. In order to make the exercise slide down, a rule was introduced that people with life-threatening diseases in the terminal phase may also be granted an extension of sickness benefit. Very good. After a violent criticism of this rule of being unclear, we now come up with another improvement for a very small group of people. This is a good thing, and we support it, but it does not correct the huge discrimination which consists in the fact that thousands of people with other illnesses and sufferings, who are also unable to provide for themselves through work, and who should therefore also have extended their sickness benefit, must instead live for months and years on the rate of cash assistance, while they are undergoing meaningless work tests and resource processes, most often contrary to the recommendations of specialists. So the Enhedslisten continues unsatisfiedly the fight for what we originally agreed with the Radicals, the Social Democrats and the SF about it was then before the election that if you can't work because of illness, then you have to have sickness benefits until you are healthy enough to work or until you are awarded an early retirement pension. So Enhedslisten supports the bill, but I think these critical remarks should be included. The basic economic security of all people with serious illnesses must be in order, and so it is not today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so the next speaker is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170811	I can be very brief: we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170821	That was a commendable card. Thank you. And the next speaker is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservative People's Party. It is just before I stand and regret that I told you about the 30 seconds of speaking time, because it is just going to be exemplary now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170836	Thank you. Yes, we are so terribly well behaved. Well, I can also be relatively brief, perhaps not quite as brief as the previous speaker, but we from Conservatives are also part of this proposal. And the intention of this has been, as many have said, to correct it and to remove the gaps that we have fortunately agreed on there. What is fundamental here is that if you are life-threatening seriously ill, you need the necessary help. This is also true in cases where you have returned to the labour market either because you may have had an expectation that you were actually well or because you have felt that you were at least healthy enough to work and yet have relapsed. So we're looking forward to getting this scheme in place, and we're also looking forward to the evaluation, which will hopefully give us a sense of whether this is the right thing to do on the other side of that deadline. And then we are glad that we are a broad conciliation group, which is quite agreed that these rules must work so that sick people get their sickness benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170945	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next speaker is the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512170951	I would like to thank the rapporteurs. As a minister, you are happy with all your legislative proposals, but some may be a little more happy than others, and it is true, as a number of rapporteurs have said, that there were some people who have suffered something as unpleasant as a life-threatening disease and who have recovered, but then the disease returns in one way or another. There were some complications, and we're gonna fix this. It is true that some of the wishes that others had for the whole sickness benefit reform are not addressed in this draft law, but we are correcting a very targeted area, which I am pleased about. That is why I will ensure that in the committee work which is now under way, I shall do what I can to ensure that it goes as quickly and painfully as possible to answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171039	Thank you, Minister. In the absence of any further comments, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171056	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171125	Thank you. The proposal here proposes that companies should no longer be able to use SKAT as a kind of bank in the sense that companies deliberately transfer too much aconto tax in order to obtain a more attractive return than can be obtained at the moment in an ordinary financial institution. The interest rates on aconto tax at SKAT must be adjusted to reflect the current reality, where deposit rates in many banks are quite low or even in some cases negative. The proposal introduces a cap on deposits of DKK 200,000, and returns on deposits in the tax account up to DKK 5,000. are deleted. Whether it is the specific amounts or the model that is being presented here, I do not want to go into the matter at this stage. We can discuss this in greater detail during the committee's work, but I am sure that during the committee's work we can also find exactly the right cut. Of course, you can say that companies have different sizes, work in different ways, their liquidity flows are different, and how do you define that you deliberately transfer too much aconto tax, etc. There are, of course, some issues that need to be clarified and reversed, but we in the Left support the intention of the proposal, because we do not think it is right that SKAT should provide a much more attractive interest rate than can be achieved in financial institutions. Businesses need to invest their cash either directly or indirectly through banks or financial institutions in general. When funds are placed in banks rather than in SKAT, this will also lead to more financial stability, and this is certainly needed. So, on behalf of the Left, I must say that we are positive about the proposal with the issues we might raise during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171325	Thank you. We have seen very low interest rates on the money and financial markets for a long time. This has meant that some companies have paid large sums of money to SKAT, and in this way our tax system has unwittingly come to be a kind of bank with good interest on corporate deposits. It's inappropriate. That has never been the intention, and that is why it is quite common sense for us to change it now. In its simplicity, this bill is about the rules being adjusted so that SKAT will not be used as a bank in future during long periods of negative interest on the money and capital markets. In other words, we propose to minimise the incentive for companies to pay too much aconto tax during the periods mentioned here. That is why we want to introduce a ceiling of DKK 200,000. the amount of deposits the companies can have on their tax account and you will not be able to get interest on the first DKK 5,000. in the tax account. We want to adjust interest rates so that they are more up-to-date and more reflect the alternative lending and placement rates of companies, and we want to allow companies to pay additional voluntary advance tax until 1 February of the year following the year of income. Of course, a situation in which companies use the tax system as a bank is not a viable situation. That's why it's a good thing it's being changed now. It is a little sensible to do so, and that is why we welcome the proposal and support it by the Socialists, and I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radicals, who unfortunately cannot be present, and say that they also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171454	Thank you to the rapporteur. We'll continue in the series of speeches, where it'll be mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171508	The draft law we are discussing here intends to change the rules for the interest rates paid to the companies by their payments to the SKAT. The aim of the draft law is to make the rules more robust in relation to longer periods of negative interest rates on the money and capital markets. In other words, we are trying to take into account the very special situation currently in the capital market, where interest rates are very low and in some cases directly negative. To achieve this, the draft law contains a number of initiatives, some of which I would just like to mention. Firstly, the interest rates in the advance tax system on corporation tax are changed to become more topical by bringing forward the date of the determination of the level of interest rates from the previous income year to the current income year. Secondly, interest rates are also adjusted to reflect the alternative borrowing and placement rates of companies. This is being changed in order to reduce the incentive for companies to pay too much in advance tax during periods of negative interest rates in financial institutions. Thirdly, the payment of an additional advance tax will be subject to payment until 1 February of the year following the year of income, subject to payment of a supplement. The fourth and last thing I would like to mention is the introduction of a ceiling of DKK 200,000. the size of a holding company that can be held in the tax account. These are all excellent changes that help to ensure that there is no speculation against the state so that it is not used as an alternative to putting money in the bank. In terms of revenue, there are not the major shifts in the draft law, as it is estimated to generate marginally less revenue in the short term. With those words, I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171655	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can see that we are just jumping a little in the rapporteur's line because some are in negotiations. So the next speaker is Mr. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171711	This proposal has been well and thoroughly argued, and Enhedslisten can only support it, and I can tell you from the SF's rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here, that SF also supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171726	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171733	The Liberal Alliance does not believe that taxpayers should provide a subsidy for companies to obtain a higher interest rate than the market rate by having a large amount of money on their tax account with SKAT. That is why we support the principle of this. But I would also like to join the rapporteur of the Left who says that it is possible that we should not be as strict as we are here. After all, there is a difference between how much $200,000. is for a very large international company and what it is for, for example, for. a small craftsman's business. So perhaps it should instead be one percent of the annual tax payment or the like. But we must look at this in the committee work to see if we can go into more detail and possibly persuade other parties to think the same thing about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171821	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171830	The Conservative People's Party is in favour of the proposal. We understand that interest rates are being adjusted. It is not fair to use the state as an alternative to putting money in the bank, because then you will have some kind of competition here. That's why it's okay to have the interest rate adjusted. We also think that this is reasonable, such as. The Liberal Alliance rapporteur said here that we are looking at the rates, and we also need to clarify that interest rates also become more explicit in good time, so that we as a company know what we have to stick to. It's a little fuzzy about the cut-off dates. So we need to talk about both the limit and the interest rates during the committee procedure. However, the Conservative People's Party is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171919	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512171926	Thank you for the positive reception of the proposal from the parties here in the Folketing. The proposal must ensure that the rules also take into account periods of negative interest. I do not think that any of us would have imagined that we would be in this situation at all just a few years ago, in other words that we would have to discuss seriously how to deal with negative interest rates in a fiscal context. But now we do. So let me say at the outset that, in addition to the positive comments made here in the Chamber, the consultation parties have also shown understanding for the need to adjust the rules in this area. I have, of course, noted this with satisfaction. The reason for the proposal, as several rapporteurs have also pointed out, is that the current rules for setting interest rates on corporate income tax and the possibility of having unique tax accounts are not robust against periods of negative interest. Among other things, it can be done. discourage the ability of the National Bank to influence the exchange rate by means of interest rate reductions because companies can place their liquidity with SKAT instead of in financial institutions etc. Therefore, the government proposes that the rules be adjusted to ensure that SKAT is not used as a bank. The proposal contains two elements which both aim to achieve this. Firstly, a ceiling of DKK 200,000 is introduced. the amount of deposits which companies may hold in their tax account. The ceiling must ensure that companies do not place large amounts with SKAT during periods of negative deposit interest in banks. It must be said in this context, and it has been mentioned in the debate along the way, that an opportunity could be to set this ceiling in a way other than a fixed amount. I have, of course, taken note of the views, and we will also return to them during the committee procedure. However, I would already like to raise the small concern of my side, which we must of course bore out in greater detail, that there may be relatively large administrative challenges to it if we are to have a flexible ceiling which takes into account different turnover limits, etc. Nor can I at this stage exorcise what it may give of administrative challenges in relation to individual companies. It is just to mention that that challenge may be there. However, as I have said, we shall come back to this in the work of the committee. In addition, the payment by the companies of voluntary advance tax on the tax account is facilitated. Today, even if it has indicated that it wishes to pay voluntary advance tax, a company will have to monitor whether there is full coverage on the tax account on the last timely payment day. This will no longer be the case with the proposal. As a result, the payment of voluntary aconto tax on the tax account becomes more flexible. Secondly, there is an element in the draft law which concerns interest rates in the aconto tax system. The proposal adjusts interest rates so that they are more up-to-date by shifting the timing of the determination of interest rates from the previous income year to the current income year. In addition, interest rates are adjusted to reflect more closely the alternative borrowing and placement rates of companies. This removes the incentive to place the money with SKAT during periods of negative deposit interest in the banks. In addition, an additional voluntary advance tax will be introduced until 1 February of the year following the year of income. This will make it easier for companies to adapt their advance tax to the final tax of the year. As the companies have already begun the payment of aconto tax, a number of transitional rules are finally proposed to ensure that payments before the proposal is submitted are not affected by the austerity measures. I would, of course, be very happy to answer any questions that may arise in connection with the proposal and its effects during the committee procedure, and I look forward, moreover, to the further consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512172338	Thank you, Minister. There's no sign in. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512172354	The debate is open. Here you go, the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512172421	Thank you, President. I believe that undeclared work and other forms of tax evasion undermine the community. It damages the trust that is otherwise high in Denmark, and it is a threat to the foundations of our welfare societies. The government has a clear focus on undeclared work. Work must be focused on the general approach to undeclared work, and it must be easier both to indicate and pay the right tax. The government also believes that targeted control measures against undeclared work and social dumping are important, even when carried out in private gardens. Therefore, SKAT's ability to carry out controls should not be impaired. SKAT has a number of supervisory powers which enable it to check whether taxes are collected, declared and settled in accordance with the rules in force. The provision on the possibility for SKAT to carry out private control was introduced under the 2012 Finance Act and the agreement concluded is on action aimed at undeclared work. This provision only allows private checks to be carried out when outdoor activities of a professional nature can be seen. I would like to stress that the provision does not provide access to the private dwelling or to carry out checks on the private citizen who owns the dwelling. It is therefore only possible to carry out checks on the commercial activity carried out on the private site. There is no concrete suspicion of criminality when the SKAT carries out checks on, for example: companies in a pedestal market or for that matter by a pizzeria or a kiosk. Control of a company on the private site does not differ from one another. A request for a court order will require a concrete suspicion of criminal offences. It is only in connection with the supervision of the SKAT that it may appear that the rules have been infringed. It is basically no different from when other authorities carry out checks. Therefore, the government does not want the possibility for SKAT to control undeclared work and combat social dumping in particular. Several other authorities, for example: The Labour Inspectorate has a similar right to carry out checks without a prior warrant. The Factory Inspectorate can also carry out checks right inside the private dwelling. If the legal basis for carrying out private control is abolished, it means in practice that SKAT has access to control of the company that replaces the roof at the local school, but the company that carries out a similar contract with private citizens in a residential district can carry out the contract black in peace, as SKAT will not have access to control of it. In my optics, there is no basis for such discrimination. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution on this point. In the light of the questions raised recently, I note that there is a widespread interest in informing the Danish Parliament about the results of the checks carried out by SKAT on private property. I would like to say that I actually think quite reasonable. Therefore, I have asked SKAT to initiate a case registration process so that control in a private garden can be systematically linked to any subsequent case with a criminal assessment, for example. imposing a fine. The authors' criticisms on this point have therefore already been accepted. In relation to the authors' comments on the possibility of indicating each other, I would like to state that neither SKAT, the municipalities nor other public authorities can refuse to receive anonymous notifications. Therefore, there is nothing new in the fact that citizens have always been able to report anonymously to SKAT. And SKAT has a duty to process all reviews, whether they are anonymous or come from a named person. That notification can now be made digitally is only a matter of internship, which is about a simple way to make it more simple for the many who still submit a notification. Finally, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that the Danes are increasingly not going to accept that the tax is being cheated and that black work is being done, as shown by a new study carried out by Statistics Denmark for SKAT. The government has focused its attention on combating undeclared work, which is why it is also important that there are no restrictions on the ability of SKAT to carry out its control. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512172922	Thank you. There are a few questions. First, it's sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512172928	As the Minister himself has said, there are no statistics on the consequences of the 747 times that the SKAT has penetrated people's private property without a warrant. I would therefore like to know what the Minister will say to the citizens who have seen them feel offended. They have been sitting in their backyard, they have been drinking coffee and suddenly had unnecessary visits from the tax authorities. What is the Minister's response to those people who have experienced such a violent intrusion on their private property? They're completely innocent, even afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512172958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512172959	First of all, it should be borne in mind that no private citizen is being controlled in this context. What is being checked is the professional activity, typically construction activity, which takes place on a site. Then we can always discuss whether it is likely that you sit and drink coffee in your garden if there are craftsmen who are messing around. It is, of course, always a discussion that can be taken. What I can at least see is that of the 747 controls, which Mr. Brian Mikkelsen also mentions, there has been 1 complaint. This certainly leads me to conclude that it is not the case that there is actually a very widespread mistrust or experience of discomfort and criticism of the controls being carried out. It must be said in this context that citizens are also informed clearly and in writing when such checks are carried out, and we are also informed of what the controls have been about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173103	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173105	I think that was an interesting answer, at least the first part of it, namely that you do not normally sit out in the garden if there are some craftsmen. This is one of the very things that is also problematic with the law here. It's not really defined what gives it access. Is it the case that there must be some craftsmen present in the garden? It's not anywhere. Is it the case that because, for example, there are... If you have two buckets of paint and a brush, you have access to people's private property? Is that it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173133	There must be visible activity, and this means, of course, in all cases that there must also be people working there. This authority must be compared with the fact that there is a building in a public property. As I said, for example, it could be a school that is getting a new roof. So we are not talking about a painter and painting window frames inside, but about a larger and visible construction activity, and that of course also means, in all cases, not having to control a private citizen, but, on the other hand, controlling the companies that may work on the ground of the citizen, that this naturally presupposes that the craftsmen are present. Otherwise, you go in vain to make control.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173222	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173225	In other words, before this amendment was adopted, SKAT could go into private property with a court order. It was the fact that you had to have a warrant that was abolished. And the Minister frankly told me what this was all about. It takes a suspicion to get a warrant. That is the problem. The government wants SKAT to be able to enter people's property without suspicion, and that's why it doesn't work to get a warrant. There must be an opportunity to enter people's gardens without suspicion that something is going on that is illegal. That is what the minister from the platform said a little more wrapped up, but it would be nice if the Minister also said it directly, in other words, that the government wanted SKAT to be able to go on to people's private grounds without a suspicion that there was any illegal activity. Will the Secretary of State repeat that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173314	I want, and the government wants, to be able to carry out checks on companies working in construction, whether that work is on private property or public property or elsewhere. If sir... Ole Birk Olesen must have done outside craft work on his property, then it is not Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, to be checked. It is not the citizen of the home who needs to be controlled. It is those companies which may have difficulties in answering the correct tax, or which carry out social dumping or something else that is being controlled, and it is clear that such checks are carried out as spot checks and, of course, also after careful consideration of where there may be certain challenges. Now it is not because so awful many of them are being carried out: 747 over 21⁄2 years. It is not overwhelming, but it is also, of course, because it is targeted at those places where the SKAT believes it can assess that there may be problems. Of course, that's also why the total number of cases arising from these 747 checks is still running up in 869.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173427	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173428	But that doesn't change the fact that it's about SKAT being able to enter people's grounds without suspicion. Then the Minister is very concerned that it is not in the house itself that the SKAT can go. Now I don't know if it's known to the tax minister, but people who have houses often have it because they like to use the garden and the terrace, also for things that have the character of privacy. As soon as the sun shines, the Danes plunge into their terrace and live a large part of their lives out there. They may even have an outdoor kitchen, so it's as much privacy as what's going on inside the house. Then it is just that I cannot understand why the Minister seems completely indifferent to the fact that there can be such control in people's private houses without there being any suspicion that something wrong is going on. It does not matter that the Minister refers to the fact that only the craftsmen are being checked. It's people who get violated their privacy by getting people from the SKAT rushing in where people's privacy is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173527	First of all, I have to correct and say that you do not check in the citizen's house. You don't. That's what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in his question, and of course I have to point that out is not correct. I must also say that there may be a situation where you have a larger building in progress on a property. There may have been scaffolding set up, there are craftsmen walking around on the roof. I can, of course, imagine a situation where you also have an outdoor life at the same time as a private person, but you will take into account the fact that you have strangers walking in advance on your property. Perhaps that is why when you look at the 747 controls that have been carried out, in fact only one case has a complaint been made in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173616	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173618	Is it with the eyes of the tax minister, and thus the government, that the end justifies the means? There is no proportionality. At all costs, whether there are suspicions or not, you must be given the opportunity, as a state, to go into the private areas of people. We have not even been able to see that in these 747 cases there has been a basis for raising a case, but yet the opportunity has now been given because it is said that the end justifies the means. Is there not at all any kind of proportionality or consideration in this respect whether such a cross-border and urgent tool is really needed in order to achieve, yes, nothing, must be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173707	It is not quite true that the committee and the Folketing have not been allowed to see different results. Like that, among other things. has been informed to Mr. Karsten Lauritzen in a written reply, there are 869 cases, and of them 101 are pending. The 682 are closed checks, and the rest are cases relating to the assessment of whether the tax legislation has been infringed. So there have been cases on the basis of the 747 controls. I admit that it may be difficult to give a very precise picture of the extent of this. Where is it that cases may not have been found, because it is also clear, on the other hand, that the fact that there have been 747 checks, 869 cases on that basis, does not necessarily mean that in all 747 checks there has been something to come for. In some places it may have led to more than one case, and therefore what several of the Danish Parliament's parties have also asked for makes sense, namely a better overview of what is actually coming out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173824	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173826	But the question of proportionality, as I see it, is that an opportunity is given to an authority and here it is crucial that it is without prior suspicion, simply because you arbitrarily think that now you have to get into this garden, because there is a car out on the sidewalk, what do I know? You walk into people's private property, and then you start to find out if something's going on. This is the overstepping of privacy and the inviolability of housing, the constitutional right that we have and which we pay tribute to, at least once a year, which I do not understand the government is not thinking about. Is that really a necessary tool? On top of that, you can see that what you get is practically limited. For us, that is not so crucial. What is crucial is that we go in and give it the opportunity without previous suspicions. Is there not any thought in the government as to whether it is really a necessary tool to use? Could we not find an alternative that is not so cross-border for the citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512173921	In fact, one can also reverse that logic and consider whether it is so cross-border when 747 controls have been carried out over 21⁄2 years and there has been one complaint on the basis of this. As I understand it, one complaint was that the written notification that the citizen should receive had not been made on the spot but had been sent on the spot instead of subsequently. mail. I shall not be able to assess whether this has been a real problem in material terms. That is what the SKAT itself has to assess and which we also have a head of civil and legal security to assess. But if it were the case that there was essentially a serious concern on this issue, including in the population, we would probably have seen a greater number of complaints.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174011	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174027	The house is inviolable. It is our constitutional right, which is black and white in Article 72 of the Constitution, except for the 265 cases in which we have politically chosen over time that it should not be inviolable anyway. I am one of those who believe that the derogations have simply gone too far in recent years. This applies in particular to the exception that we are dealing with here, which we in the bourgeois side would like to see removed once again, namely that SKAT should be allowed to plunge into people's private property, without prior warrant, without suspicion, simply in the pursuit of undeclared work and social dumping. This is an opportunity that has been exploited 747 times, we have heard since that opportunity arose in 2012. However, it seems that it has been difficult to find some real cases to raise in the courts afterwards. In my opinion, we have come up with a misdirection. The use of the exceptions provided for by the Basic Law has exploded and the development of the number of exceptions adopted by the State since the entry into force of the Basic Law in 1849 shows that 111 exceptions have been introduced in the period from 1849 to 1996. So that's 111 exceptions in 147 years. However, since 1996, the figure has exploded to 265 exceptions allowing the authorities to penetrate the citizen's private property without a court order. So it has come to 155 times in the last 18 years. So it is more than in the previous 147 years and, as we know, the figure is increasing. That, in certain cases, the state should be allowed to make exceptions to section 72 of the Constitution on the inviolability of the dwelling, I naturally agree. Of course, the authorities must have the opportunity to search private homes in exceptional cases, and if, for example, the security of the state is threatened in terrorist cases or the like, and in special cases, the food authorities must be able to move quickly to unannounced visits if there is a risk to human health. However, when the number of exceptions which should be quite peculiar and which allow the state, and hence the municipalities, to violate citizens' constitutional rights, has increased by almost 250 per cent. For the last 20 years, I believe that everything has gone too far. It waters down the paragraph, and it completely waters down the meaning of the paragraph as it was originally intended. In our view, the government should respect the Constitution much more than it is, and hence the constitutional rights that have been intended for us. It is ultimately about the legal certainty of citizens. The argument, which we also heard from the Minister a moment ago, that this is a tool that is necessary in the fight against undeclared work, I simply do not buy. In the Left, we would rather give a more positive incentive to the Danes to reduce black work. It could, for example, be done. be a tax relief on labour income, or it could be by reintroducing the housing job scheme. It's just to use a few tools. This is therefore a positive incentive, rather than providing the Krabash, which is to violate something as crucial for us as the principle of the inviolability of housing. We do not want to ignore the fundamental rights of ordinary Danes regarding the inviolability of the dwelling, and that is why, in our opinion and view, SKAT should not have the opportunity, which unfortunately has been given, of being able to penetrate private property without a prior court order. For us, the end does not justify the means.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174405	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174408	The great rhetorical heights on the part of the rapporteur of the Left are indeed swinging. I am sure that we can also get it from the lawyers in writing, but I do not know anyone who considers this to be contrary to Article 72 of the Constitution. After all, it is exciting that the Left feels that they have to get all the way to that rent in order to justify the abolition of effective measures against social dumping. One might want to use one's speaking time to ask whether the Left will tell us in this Chamber today what other steps the government has taken in the fight against social dumping, which one will roll back. This is a very important fight for us, for the government. Not so much happened in the ten years when the Left sat with the Prime Minister's post. That would be very exciting to hear, but if it is too broad for the rapporteur of the Left to reply to the question, I could see that there was a little frown over the question. I would just like to say that the rapporteur himself describes that this is very cross-border for citizens. Does it not impress the rapporteur of the Left that there has been one complaint in all, and it was about notification of the visit, not about the visit itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174513	No, it does not make any impression that there have been no more complaints. It is possible that Mrs Astrid Krag feels that it is on the high rhetorical bells, and then she has understood it quite correctly. Because this is a matter of principle for us. It should not be given to the authorities without prior suspicion without a court order, unless these are the very specific examples that I gave, that is to say, the security of the state, food safety and such things. But that is not the case here. Then Mrs Astrid Krag says that this is an effective means. Excuse me, what's gotten out of it? We just heard from the tax minister before that you didn't know. It was very difficult to estimate. A process would now be set in motion to find out. To call it an effective means may be to go a little too far, but for us it is not even what matters. What is crucial is that the authority, in this case SKAT, should be allowed, without suspicion, without a warrant, to penetrate the citizen's private property. We think that is an overrun that the SKAT should not be allowed to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174614	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174616	This is a possibility that also applies in other contexts. That really just makes me come back to the first question that I failed to ask, but which I can ask anyway. If this is so in principle for the Left, which other places do you want to go in and remove that possibility? What will happen to the work of the Factory Inspectorate? How much will the Left weaken the fight against social dumping after the elections? In fact, I think the Left owes an answer to that. After all, we have seen that this is one of the agendas that really fills the voters. There's a legal basis for this in the Constitution. There is no doubt about that, but if the Left wants to turn this into a question of principle, how many other areas will the Left spread this beyond, so that the fight against social dumping will be weakened against that background?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174653	For me, there is a very clear dividing line. Now, for example, Mrs Astrid Krag mentions the Labour Inspectorate. You can have your views on that, but it has something to do with people's ability. Life and viability are at stake if the health and safety rules that are now in place are not complied with. In fact, I think that there is a very, very big difference between whether it is about people who seem even a party that uses it as its slogan or whether, after all, it is only about cold cash, crowns and ear. We think it is absolutely crucial that there should be a particular reason for this when we give something as cross-border as this opportunity, and we do not think that there is in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174733	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512174744	When you ride around the villa roads in the beautiful spring weather, you can also enjoy how beautiful Denmark really is in the spring, wondering a little about the construction activity around the gardens at odd times, wondering about foreign license plates on craft cars. It's hard to see if they're there for work. This does not necessarily mean that there is no pure flour in the bag on private construction sites around, but this may unfortunately mean that there is no social dumping, undeclared work and circumvention of the rules. It is therefore very good that SKAT has the opportunity to check whether these are just some of the things: undeclared work, social dumping or a cocktail of both. We are in a situation in Denmark where social dumping puts our labour market under such pressure and we can see that undeclared work costs our society many billions of dollars every year. The money could be spent in our schools, in our kindergartens, in health, in hospitals, or in securing our elderly a dignified old age with care and support. And I wonder if that is why more and more Danes are rejecting undeclared work and want us to take a tough stand against social dumping. In the government, we have and have had a strong focus on tackling social dumping and undeclared work. Therefore, in 2012, as part of a larger package against undeclared work, we allowed SKAT to control outdoor activities of a professional nature on private grounds. It is an opportunity such as the one available to the Labour Inspectorate to check whether working conditions are in order. Most cases arising from a visit by SKAT are about lack of signage or lack of a logo or company name. There has therefore been a clear reason why SKAT has chosen to visit the building. So it is not the way some would like to draw the picture that there are tax agents running around in the villa gardens and jumping out of the bushes and yelling their hands up to good people who otherwise try to sit and enjoy their morning coffee. It sounds like something from an Ole Lund Kirkegaard book that I'm reading to my children at home. So it is also not the case that SKAT comes running in each or every other villa garden in time and early. If you can do your school mathematics, you can figure out that there has been a little less than what corresponds to one visit to one garden in one place in Denmark all the time that SKAT has had this opportunity. No one from the SKAT can go into people's private homes. I would like to make this clear because you could be left with the impression if you follow the debate here on television and listen to the bourgeois rapporteurs. The legislation does not allow access to private homes or to carry out checks on the owner of the dwelling. What the authors of the motion for a resolution are aware of is the fact that SKAT's inspections are carried out without a warrant, but a court order requires a specific suspicion of criminality, and it is only in the context of the inspections carried out by SKAT that compliance or non-compliance with the rules is established. This is therefore fully in line with when other authorities are on inspection visits. Take e.g. The Labour Inspectorate, as I have mentioned. SKAT has, and must be, able to carry out checks on the construction activities carried out outdoors on a site. It is a good and necessary tool for combating undeclared work and social dumping. For us, this is not a matter of principle. I would also like to say that I think it was a rather strange line of principle that the rapporteur of the Left ended up getting himself into here from the platform. For us, this is a practical and effective approach to dealing with the social problem of undeclared work and social dumping. This is a problem that we have a duty to combat. This therefore presupposes the necessary powers of control by the tax authorities. That is why SKAT's ability to carry out controls must not be impaired and the Socialists cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175126	Thank you. There are a number of questions, and the first is from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175131	With such a practical approach to what the Socialist rapporteur is advocating here, we are giving SKAT the opportunity to do anything at any time to anyone. In the dialogue that the rapporteur had with the Left rapporteur before, the rapporteur said that the rapporteur knows that there are no legal capacities that have so challenged the law here. Therefore, I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether he is not concerned about the fact that Professor Søren Friis Hansen of CBS believes that the fact that you can enter people's gardens without a court order, that you can easily open the garden gate, is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, according to a telegram on TV2.dk on 5 February: So is there no concern at all that a professor says that this is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175236	Let's get something in writing from the Ministry about this when we deal with it, but try to hear: It's not because SKAT goes in and controls people's private properties. SKAT goes in and controls private contracts, construction sites, scaffolding. In this way, it is, of course, a supervisory equivalence of whether, as an undertaking, you are carrying out your contracts for a public authority or for another undertaking, and whether it is in an institution or in a private one. And it is the construction site, that is, the contract that is being checked, and not the individual individuals who may now have gardens and houses there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175311	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175315	I'd like to hold on to Professor Søren Friis Hansen here, because that's what we're talking about. He talks about SKAT simply being allowed to enter people's gardens, and he refers to the fact that earlier in granting SKAT access to people's private property, at the same time, several options were introduced to protect oneself against undeclared work. There must be a sign in front of the house with the company's CVR number, there must be cvr numbers on the craftsmen' cars etc. This means that today there are a number of instruments which are less intrusive but which can help prevent undeclared work. That is why it is the professor's conclusion that it is contrary to the Convention that the government provides the opportunity to simply penetrate people's private gardens. I think that is what the dialogue and debate that the rapporteur had with the rapporteur of the Left still require a comment from the Socialist rapporteur, namely whether, after all, the rapporteur is not concerned when a professor mentions it here. Now we heard just now that the rapporteur did not think that there were any professors who had challenged the law here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175410	I do not know if the Conservative rapporteur did not hear my answer before. That was my humble attempt to explain why I think the lawyers in the Ministry are right when they say that it is neither contrary to the Constitution nor to the European Convention on Human Rights. It is a question of controlling private contracts, of people who do construction work, of people who have to control the rules and not do black work, not cheat, not bypass the rules. That's a good move. I understand the Conservatives don't want it. I understand that the Conservatives do not consider the fight against social dumping to be very important. It worries me if the Conservatives were to gain power, as they did in the '00s, where nothing happened in this area. But it's not gonna change that I'm happy with this move. And I am actually impressed by the fact that the number of cases has been raised on the basis of these visits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175455	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175500	It can always be argued that something good can be achieved for the authorities by giving the authorities greater access to people's private lives. So it's easy. In the same way one could argue that SKAT should have the opportunity to enter through the front door, into people's living rooms. Then it will also be easier to check whether the electrician or plumber, who works inside, works black. It's easy to say. However, we have some perceptions and some principles for people to be allowed to be at peace in their private homes. The Social Democrats think so as long as it takes place inside the house, but when it takes place on the terrace, on the side of the barbecue, on the other side of the terrace door, the Social Democrats believe that the principle that one should be able to be at peace in and around one's own home can be lifted. We don't have to protect that there. I mean, when I step out on the other side of my terrace door, which is right next to my dining table, I'm out there where the SKAT can be. But when I'm inside, at the dining table, I don't want SKAT to be there. This is very important for the Socialists. Why is it not important that SKAT should not be able to enter where I otherwise live my outdoor life?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175613	I do not know whether there are any problems with the sound in this Chamber or that things are not going through. But I can tell Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, who also had the fantastic quote when he asked the minister about something, namely that people from SKAT come rushing into the gardens: Don't draw the picture. There aren't sneaky tax agents around lifting people's duvets with a selfie stick because they can't walk in the door. I'd like to say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen: You can safely go out on your terrace in whatever you want, if that's what you look like from God's hand, unless you have a private contract. I don't know how many times mr. Ole Birk Olesen runs around like he doesn't have craftsmen visiting if he has scaffolding outside the windows. Well, that's not sir. Ole Birk Olesen's garden that can be controlled. It's the private contract. Does this mean that the Liberal Alliance also does not think that SKAT should have these control options when it comes to private contracts with companies, with organisations, with authorities? This is about ensuring that you have the same opportunities to check buildings in terms of control regardless of whether it is in a municipal office or whether it is a building that takes place with a private person. It is a question of control equality. Should we then conclude from the logic of the Liberal Alliance that the SKAT should lose those powers of control at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175719	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175722	We all have our thoughts and our fantasies. Sometimes it comes out, and Astrid Krag thinks of me as created from God's hand. I cannot imagine Mrs Astrid Krag in that, but I think that there must be one point in the fact that there is a right within the four walls of the home not to be suddenly able to receive a visit from the SKAT it is very important without any suspicion that something illegal is going on. And what you do in the four walls of your home, you do on your terrace too. There is the same importance about the right to privacy, and I do not understand that Mrs Astrid Krag cannot understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175812	I regret that I came to suggest that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen may be a naturalist in his spare time. That is not what the debate was supposed to be about at all. So, for me, this is very clear: it is a question of ensuring that companies carrying out their contracts, their private construction activities, whether they do so in private individuals or whether they do so elsewhere. It is therefore not much more mysterious than that, but we have had to hear from the rapporteur of the Left about SKAT wandering into people's gardens, and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is talking about people from the SKAT coming in. Well, first of all, it does not match the picture of reality, where there has been a single visit to a garden per year. day of the time the SKAT has had the opportunity. Conversely, it has to be said that with the number of cases raised on the basis of those visits, it has been shown that this is actually a useful tool. And I find it hard to understand that there is so much opposition from the right. That actually makes me a little worried about the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175903	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175907	I just want to follow up on it, sir. Ole Birk Olesen asks, and so precisely and specifically ask, why the Socialists do not want to allow SKAT to do the corresponding checks inside the terrace door, that is, inside people's homes, in the same way as you can now in the gardens. Why is it that one should not be able to control there if it is up to the Social Democrats when one allows the Social Democrats to allow the SKAT to control in the garden, that is, on the other side of the terrace door. Why the dividing line?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512175936	Well, for me, this is about securing tools that are effective and that you can use. It is clear that if this is to have any effect, there must also be an opportunity for SKAT to see that here it makes sense to go in and conduct a control company. I don't know how to find out from the SKAT that now there's an electrician inside here, we can ask you a question. It has been made very clear with this provision that it does not allow SKAT to penetrate the home itself, and this is, of course, the problem which is supposedly of great concern to the right. That is why I would just like to say that it has not been desirable to give SKAT those powers in the context of these new possibilities. I have not been part of the negotiations myself, so I shall not be able to say what discussions have been in relation to demarcation, but I can see for myself that there may be some practical reasons. And, as I said, it has been made very clear that the provision is not about giving SKAT the opportunity to enter the home itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180032	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180035	So that means that the Socialists define the housing as where the bricks are, not the curb by the terrace, but the bricks themselves, the windows and the doors. And within that, we have the residence. I don't want you to be able to intrude there. But I have to understand that this is not such a principle, that is to say, that people will be protected from the possibility of aliens entering within the four walls. This is more so from a practical point of view that you cannot see from the street that there should be a craftsman in there. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? So I'm gonna ask you again: why this boundary? Why do the Socialists not just give it a full screw and say that we should be able to control every place, right into the bedroom? Why stop at the terrace door, Mrs. Astrid Krag?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180113	I simply do not have the urge of the bourgeois rapporteurs to shoot grey sparrows with guns. Listen, this is a sensible, balanced, limited action that has given SKAT some options they didn't have before. On the whole principle, this SKAT gives the same control powers as they have in controlling contracts and construction sites elsewhere. I don't think it's obnoxious. I think it is actually relatively sensible, and I would like to welcome the fact that the Minister has responded to those who wanted it and have made sure that we get some more concrete statements as to what comes out of the cases that are being raised. Perhaps this will help convince the critics. I am a little afraid that it cannot, but then it can at least be something that can give a vision of the matter, that is to say that it actually helps something when you take action against social dumping and undeclared work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180159	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180212	We are discussing a motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. Since the Danish People's Party is co-sponsors of the proposal, I can already say that we naturally support the resolution. The proposal is that we will remove SKAT's permission to enter people's private gardens without having a warrant. The reason why we want to remove this rule is that it is a rather far-reaching power that the SKAT has been given here. That is not to say that the SKAT should never be able to check whether, for example, it is possible to do so. Doing black work on a cadastral. Of course, SKAT must be able to do that. Just like the police, they need a warrant before entering private property. Such a court order can easily be obtained if you have reasonable suspicions. SKAT also has other ways of detecting fraud and undeclared work, so we're not out to dismantle SKAT's opportunities to expose fraud and undeclared work. For example, there must be a CVR number on company cars, and craftsmen must put up a sign in front of the ground on which they work. One important reason why SKAT's power must be removed is quite basically Paragraph 72 of the Constitution, which reads: "Boligen is inviolable. House investigations, seizure and investigation of letters and other papers, as well as breaches of postal, telegraph and telephone secrecy, where no law provides for a special exception, shall be carried out only after a court order. The basic law is that the dwelling is inviolable unless a court order can be made. For that reason, SKAT must also do so and, for that matter, all other authorities, including municipalities, which today can also impose access to a private property in order to carry out various forms of control of citizens without informing citizens in advance. In principle, we must safeguard the provisions of the Constitution and not bend them in the light of short-term political desires to make it easy for SKAT to control on private grounds. With these words, I can say that the Danish People's Party naturally supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180423	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180450	The Minister of Taxation has reported that last year, in 2014, corrections were found for 100 million. kr. because of social dumping. Social dumping and undeclared work are closely linked in these cases, where, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, there are a great many foreign workers on different lands, and of course one must be allowed to do so, but in many of these cases we also know that this is about undeclared work, it is about social dumping, it is about unemployed craftsmen who cannot get jobs because, especially in North Zealand, people have found out, they will not pay the price they cost to have a Danish craftsman on their own property. A few weeks ago, or perhaps a little month ago, when we made food compromise III, a large number of parties were involved, among others. Left. And I do not remember, when we were debating the type of food control that would take place in a large number of private companies, that someone from the Left or the other parties said: it is quite unacceptable that there should be some unannounced inspections in people's private companies. This is about monitoring private contracts on private grounds where there are reasonable suspicions that something illegal is going on. We are a country that is enormously challenged by social dumping, by cheap labour, by undeclared work, and I think it is particularly important when the DF says that this proposal is to be supported, because it is unacceptable, and then we do not support the statements that sometimes come along, that we are challenged especially in the construction sector in relation to undeclared work and in relation to Eastern European labour, which is being exploited by employers and underpaid. So I simply think it is unacceptable that we should be fluctuating in all possible directions. You should support this so we can get rid of it. The SF does not support this motion for a resolution. We are sure of this, and we are constantly told when we receive feedback that when SKAT investigates major construction projects, they are well received. And some of these associations, which perhaps at the beginning also expressed a little scepticism, for example. Parcelhusejernes Landsforening, has also acknowledged that it has an effect. Among other things: The President said: 'I believe that the rules have ensured more focus on undeclared work, so that you feel more exposed as a parcel house if you take advantage of it. We are pleased that morals in this area are getting a little help in this way. ▪ That's what President Allan Malskær said in 2013. Torben Liborius said: "We believe that those who have pure flour in the bag are not bothered by it. And I have also not heard examples that Tax has abused these new powers... This is a game of populist bullshit, which is a scaremongering that is supposed to make people think that tax workers are pouring over the plank when it is really about having a concrete justification. It is exactly the same principle as if you have a private company, where the Factory Inspectorate can visit and where food control can visit if you have a food business. This is simply about getting rid of undeclared work in an extremely exposed industry. The SF does not support the proposal, and I should also welcome the Radical Left and say that they do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180900	There is a question from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180904	Now I am getting a little confused, as Mrs Astrid Krag has said, because there is talk of SKAT having access to people's gardens, without any suspicion that illegal acts are being committed, because something called social dumping will come to an end. After all, there is no legislation against social dumping. It is not the case that it is illegal for foreign workers to come to Denmark and work at a lower wage than that paid by Danish employees. So is it simply that we have opened people's gardens to SKAT because we have to fight against something that is not illegal? Is that what this is supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512180947	I think sir... Ole Birk Olesen should do a little reading on his homework. We are talking about social dumping when, for example, the Metro company. uses a sub-contractor who sub-pays his work to a degree so that judgment falls and millions must be paid back. So, yes, the two things can easily be connected. This is about undeclared work, but undeclared work and social dumping are entangled in each other, because social dumping is nothing more than undermining standards that are on Danish construction sites. These may be safety standards, and they may also be wages. But here it's all about undeclared work. My approach to social dumping, that part of it, was in fact mostly to DF, because I think that answers in very different directions depending on the question being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181037	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181039	It is clear that if we break some agreements, we are talking about breaking some agreements, and we must not do so. So, if you have made an agreement, you obviously have to abide by the agreement. Now we are talking about some craftsmen who work in a private man's garden, and there is no agreement that can be broken. But let me ask you something else now. Can Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen see the big, big difference between SKAT's access to people's homes inside the doors and SKAT's access to people's terrace? Is this a very crucial difference for Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen when it comes to maintaining people's right to privacy? One has a right to privacy, and the other has no right to privacy, that is, on one side of the terrace door and on one side of the terrace door. What is happening on the one hand is privacy, and the other is the subject of public authorities looking in the cards without a warrant.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181133	No matter how many times mr. Ole Birk Olesen asks that question, the answer will be the same. It's not the parcel house owner who's being investigated. It is the company, the private contractor, that carries out work on that site. That's the person, it's the company, the business owner who's being investigated, if there's any reason to suspect it, just like if mr. Ole Birk Olesen owned a sausage factory and produced sausages, and sometimes the Labour Inspectorate would visit unannounced, sometimes the food control would visit unannounced, and I very much regret that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen feels enormously molested on his own behalf and his sausage factory's behalf, but these are the rules in Denmark. I do not see the actual difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181216	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181218	I got a little curious because Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen mentioned that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is absolutely certain that this helps to expose undeclared work. I have asked many questions to the tax minister in this case, and I have also asked what the consequence has been of the fact that the tax administration 747 times entered people's private gardens without a warrant. In the many questions I have put to the tax minister, not a single answer has been given as to what the consequences of the 747 times have been. There has been an answer to what the work has actually meant in the context of the big strategy, but the 747 times you do not know the consequences. Therefore, I would like to know where Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has the knowledge that it has an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181308	Forgive me for using old figures, but I hope the rapporteur thinks it is okay. I think it would be nice to have more recent figures. However, in 2013, and this scheme had been in operation for some time, it is reported that the power at that time had been used 247 times and that the controls led to 30 cases of social fraud and fraud, 25 cases of undeclared work and 50 cases, which at that time were pending proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181350	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181351	Then we must delve into those questions, because that is exactly what I also asked the tax minister, namely whether it was in connection with other matters. That is why my question to the Minister for Taxation has been: what has resulted from the 747 cases? Then old cases are referred to, which are linked to all sorts of other cases. Indeed, there is no examination of the specific cases, and that is what is interesting. That is why my question remains to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen: where is the documentation? There was a perfectly crystal-clear announcement from the rapporteur that this helps that it means a forceful effort in the fight against undeclared work, social dumping and whatever else is. But where is that documentation? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181435	After all, I have just read out some figures to the rapporteur. But I think it might be nice to get some new numbers. I fully agree with that. There's no disagreement there. And I think it should be possible to have them. I've read the tax minister's answer. I would just like to say in relation to Danish Construction, which I know the rapporteur is also in contact with occasionally, that in 2013 Torben Liborius said: "We see that the new tax rules have helped to reduce the amount of undeclared work. The fact that SKAT has informed about the rules, and we have also actively informed about it, has a preventive effect. So there's a broad recognition in the Danish Building Agency that this works.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181516	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181523	There is no doubt that this is an important debate, in other words the relationship between what the authorities and the state have of opportunities weighed up against the legal certainty of citizens. We believe that this is a very serious and important discussion, and that is why it is okay to take this debate, even though it has not been so long since we had it. I think that's okay. The opposite is, of course, that what is the concern to be able to combat undeclared work, which is also a very important debate, not only on the basis of agreement or on the basis of special interests, but on the basis of how we maintain the foundations of our welfare and the whole way our society is organised. It's a balance. What's more important? We made it in 2012 that we thought it was okay for SKAT to have this opportunity, but it wasn't without concern. That is why I am glad that the practice that has developed since then has not given rise to any reason to say that the authorities and the state were given rights here which we regretted we gave to the authorities. I would like to say there that if a complaint that a note of rights you have, when there has been such a visit, has not been delivered on the spot, but sent in the mail, then what is there and that looks like there is no indication that we have opened some Pandora's box in relation to the state's ability to control citizens. That is also why we see no reason to support the proposal that has been put forward today. In this context, I would also like to stress that it is very important to us that when carrying out the type of inspection that has been opened up here, we should inform the public that this has not only happened but also inform them of the possibilities of complaining about what has happened. In other words, you can go to court and say that the authorities have violated my personal integrity here. We think that's a very important part of this. So, the debate is all right, but we see no reason to change the law that we also supported in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181742	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181746	I think it is a very strange argument that because there has been only one complaint, there is no problem with the law. People generally do not complain that the authorities are doing what the law allows the authorities to do. Well, if you lower the speed limit on a road stretch from 90 km/h. At 80 km/h, people don't start complaining when they get a fine that they've been driving 90 km/h, when they're only allowed to drive 80 km/h. That's the law, that's the rules. And why should people start complaining when SKAT comes and says according to the law: We have the right to come here on your property and check that there is no work black? What should they complain about? What the SKAT does is perfectly legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181829	Yes, but if it is completely unfounded and there is not a single argument for going in and doing that control, then it is not legal, and then you have a basis for complaining. And I think it is very important that we have a basis for complaint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181840	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181842	We have just heard the Minister say that the reason why SKAT no longer has to demand a court order is that the new law should allow SKAT to enter, even if there is no suspicion that something illegal is being committed. So the only reason the SKAT has to justify it is that there are craftsmen present on the site. And why should one complain that SKAT does what the law allows it to do? In other words, the fact that there is no complaint is not a reason why people do not feel that they are being violated, because they just know that it has the right to SKAT. So on what basis should they complain?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181914	Yes, there must be
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181929	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512181931	I think that was an okay and interesting reflection, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Frank Aaen, come with me. But it still leads to the question of whether the end always justifies the means; whether it is always the case that if there is a good goal, then you must use all the tools needed. In other words, here Enhedslisten is a priority to combat social dumping and to combat undeclared work. We also think so, but it also means that SKAT, if they can prove that it has a greater effect, for example. You want to be allowed to just walk into people's private property, that is, inside? Does this mean that you can show up at the employee's place of work to see if they are hiding something in their computers and that they may have transferred some money to the craftsman using another account or something like that? There are no limits at all to the fact that this objective is so sacred to the Enhedslisten that some methods are being used, as I also hear Mr. Frank Aaen talk about anyway is so equal to what one thinks is acceptable on Enhedslisten's side?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182034	Well, I have no other answer than what I gave in my rapporteur's speech, namely that this is an area to which we must pay close attention. We have weighed the various considerations, and have said that here it is OK. to enable the competent authorities to carry out checks. If it turns out that it is being abused, or if it turns out that it is being used excessively, we must intervene, but there is no indication of that. It looks like the authorities are using this opportunity for control sensibly, and then we have no problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182105	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182107	Well, would there then be a problem with SKAT saying that it would have a documented effect that they could just go into the family study or bedroom to see if you were hiding a cardboard box with attachments under the bed? Are there no fundamental considerations about this at all? For SKAT says it has an effect yes, they will of course say that to anything. That's what I'm saying, which works a lot with the SKAT itself. Of course, they want to have as much power as possible. It is, of course, our political task to set a limit to that. Therefore, the relevant question remains to Enhedslisten whether there is, after all, no limit to what SKAT is asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182146	Yeah, I think so. I can just repeat myself. There is a limit and we must constantly weigh the funds against what we want to achieve. I would say that if the Conservatives have such great concerns about people's privacy, perhaps you should take a look at social legislation. The social services have extreme opportunities to go in and bang a cash aid recipient or if there are three toothbrushes in a bathroom where there should be only two in the view of the social authorities. I think we should go in there and look at whether the authority's ability to control citizens has gone far, far beyond what is reasonable. But that is obviously not the concern of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182227	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182235	First of all, I think it is appropriate to list what this principle is which forms the basis for this discussion. It is a principle written down in the constitution of the Kingdom, § 72. It says: "The building is inviolable. House survey... may, where no law provides for a special exception, be carried out only after a court order. • What is the starting point here is that we in Denmark have a three-way division of power. We have the legislative, executive and judicial power. And the fathers of the Constitution had no confidence that the executive would control themselves in a reassuring way if one did not have the judicial power in addition to doing so, and therefore it was written down that, as a starting point, one should only be able to enter people's homes, on their sole marks, if the executive power obtained the approval of it from the judicial power. Then section 72 of the Constitution says that it is possible to do so anyway, if a law provides for a special exception, a special exception. In other words, one can imagine situations where one can compromise on this principle, which is enshrined in section 72 of the Constitution, if there is a special exception in a law. But now we have so many laws that allow people's private homes to enter without a court order that there are no longer specific exceptions, but that it is the general rule that as soon as the authorities ask the Folketing for a law that allows the authorities to enter people's private landmarks, the Folketing just gives it, and that is the general rule and that is not good. And this is an example of it; it is an example of allowing SKAT to enter where there is no suspicion. There is no suspicion that anything illegal is going on, because if you suspected it, you could just go to a judge and get a court order. What's the point of this law is that you have to be able to go in, even if you don't have a suspicion, just for like fishing with big nets: if something comes, something comes, nothing comes, well, it's just a principle of the basic law we've challenged here, know that we're going into people's private grounds. We should put an end to that. We should roll this opportunity back. We in the Liberal Alliance can't see why it makes such a huge difference to the parties behind this law whether it's in people's own homes, that is, inside the doors, that the SKAT must come or whether it's out on people's terraces. In both places there is private life, which it is important to protect and to which people should have the right, without the authorities being able to enter without a warrant. And I do not think that the parties that support this legislation, here from the platform, have argued very objectively why people should not be at peace on their terrace but should be at peace inside their house. Of course, people must be able to be at peace inside their house, but they must also be able to be at peace on their terrace. So, of course, we support this motion for a resolution on which we are also co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182620	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512182628	This is an incredibly important fundamental debate which the Danish Parliament is having here late this afternoon. After all, it is a fundamental discussion that we, as politicians, must guarantee people's freedom, that we must secure people against a state that will always be able to bulldoze everything else and have more powers than the individual citizen. Here it is about something as fundamental as the inviolability of property. Here it is about something as fundamental as that we have a responsibility to safeguard the citizens. It is not about social dumping, and it is not about undeclared work, because we are against that. Everyone as one, we can confirm each other in it and dunk each other on the back and say it. No, it is basically about ensuring that the citizens of a democratic judicial society have some protection mechanisms, which means that, in this case, state power should not just be able to get into people's gardens. This has been somewhat ironised: does it really matter, and is it now the big problem, since there has now been only one complaint, as has been mentioned by several government rapporteurs here? I feel here the urge to read out an email that I have received from a Danish woman who has been subjected to a so-called garden visit from SKAT. This is particularly addressed to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag, and to the Socialist Minister for Taxation, because they are citizens of our country. It is a thought-provoking story that is addressed specifically to my social democratic friends, because it is because of stories like the one she has sent here that we are fighting to restrict the powers of the SKAT towards ordinary Danes. She writes, and now I quote: Dear Brian Mikkelsen! I've just read that you've taken the initiative for a debate on SKAT's intrusion into people's private property. Thank you so much. I am one of the 747 private people who experienced the last year, and I can so much confirm you that this is a quite unreasonable attack on the part of the state. We were painting our house inside when the house was surrounded by a total of six people, two from SKAT, two from the police and two from the Labour Inspectorate. They invade from different corners of the grounds, just like a crime scene where the serial killer is to be apprehended. Then they dragged our craftsmen and my husband into the garden, where they watched for all our neighbors started a three-hour interrogation. I came home in the middle of the séance and was somewhat shocked by the absurd sight of the police in my garden. We had records of everything we had done in the house, so there was absolutely nothing they could catch us in. The next day, two guys came back. They walked in through the front door, and when I came into my living room, they went through and photographed everything as if it were a murder scene. It provoked me so much that they could just go in and sniff around my property like that. After they had been there for approx. Two hours, I received a note for an empty half-liter soda bottle, my husband had lost on the floor, which posed a fall danger, as well as criticism that the scaffolding we had outside the house was half dismantled. But it was because the scaffolders were taking it down, but had just stopped work when it had become rainy, and therefore they were not allowed to work. Well, it was longer lubricate, writes the woman here, but I just thought I'd confirm that it seems so much contrary to your sense of justice when you have done nothing illegal and yet feel treated like a criminal. I hope you'll succeed in changing the rules. It is therefore an ordinary citizen who both experienced the situation that SKAT came in, that the Labour Inspectorate came in, but especially that one just walked into people's gardens and that it was SKAT who did it. The Factory Inspectorate has some other powers in terms of being able to go into people's property and into people's houses too, but here it was SKAT that went into people's gardens. It was an ordinary Dane who was exposed to this, and that is what one is trying to minimize and almost ironize over ordinary Danes who feel that their legal certainty is completely violated and feel intimidated. That is also why the four bourgeois parties have tabled the resolution here. We do not think it should be possible for SKAT without any concrete suspicion to be able to enter private gardens and just so wander into people's private property. The interesting thing is, of course, and fortunately there we received a small concession and a small statement, which I think is positive, from the tax minister, that the effect of the 747 times you have penetrated people's gardens has not been documented. We were told by the tax minister here that this would be investigated, and now there would be a case file on every case where you have penetrated people's gardens. It will be so interesting to see what the effect has been of getting those powers from SKAT. It is true, as the LA rapporteur has also said here, that if you suspect that something illegal is going on, then you can just get a court order on it. That's how our system is so amazingly designed. It gives the judge another court order, and then you can get into people's gardens if that's what this is about. The proposal here is, in all its simplicity, about bringing the legal state back to before 2012, ensuring a protection for private citizens that state power cannot just penetrate people; ensuring that there is legal certainty; ensuring that there is integrity about people in this society. So it is not about social dumping or about undeclared work, I would like to emphasise once again, because we want to combat that too with the funds that are now available for it. So in those words, I would say that we continue the fight. If we get a bourgeois majority after the next elections, we will ensure that SKAT does not have that opportunity. It is a promise made by the four bourgeois parties, so the Danes can count on it. We must then just hope that there will be a quick choice so that we can change the legal conditions that exist so that there is some legal certainty left for the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183231	There are questions, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183235	Thank you. I do not need much time to dwell on where I disagree politically with what Conservatives' rapporteur said, because we have, like, had some rounds about that. I just want to say in relation to the specific e-mail that Mr. Brian Mikkelsen read aloud that I could hear that the citizen among others. Said the police were on board. And I guess that means " or I can't deny that it's been a court order. I don't know if Mr. Brian Mikkelsen has been very deep in the handling of the individual case. I just want to say that I certainly cannot be a part of that here. After all, no one heard that reading there, who can know what is really in this particular case. So my question is really just about me assuming that Mr. Brian Mikkelsen has urged the woman to complain when it has supposedly been such a harsh treatment that she has been subjected to, as Mr. Brian Mikkelsen reads aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183323	We've talked to her, of course, and she's been on different media. She's also been on the radio telling me about these experiences. I've heard an interview with her about this case because the reporters got to her after she wrote me this e-mail. And her explanation is that because she has a position, a certain education • now I found out who she was and what she's doing and because of the work she's doing, she won't make a public complaint. That is also what you are experiencing, and they must, in fact, do so themselves. It should not be the case that we have a society where you say to people, when SKAT so unfairly just jumps into their gardens that they just have to complain. Yes, you can do that, but it is not certain that they will, because they may themselves feel that they are risking something. I do not think they do, because of course we should have the opportunity to complain. I don't get the impression that SKAT molests people that way just because they complain. They insult people in other ways, but not because they complain. So, of course, she should have. But this is a fantastic description of the situation that, as the Socialist rapporteur does, it is not possible to minimize the fact that people have experienced 747 times that SKAT has gone into their land. The thing is, the police need a warrant for it. I myself have been Minister of Justice, and there is the situation that the police cannot just walk into people's gardens. They're gonna need a warrant for it, but the SKAT can do it. The police investigating biker crime need a warrant to walk into a biker's yard. SKAT can just go in there. It's completely out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183456	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183457	Then Mr. Brian Mikkelsen is also on what I'm asking, namely, if this case might be about something and more than what we're talking about now, if the police need a warrant to go in. So, I have to say that it does not make much sense for me to run for interviews and to go on television and on radio, etc., but that you will not send a complaint if you think you have a case that is justified by such a complaint. This simply does not make any sense to me, but I do not know the specific case. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen is welcome to share the e-mail. I just want to encourage Brian Mikkelsen to ask this woman to complain so we can find out what's up and down in this case. Then I just want to say that I think that with the language that is now being used in relation to SKAT's employees, we are about to get down there, where I do not recognize the image of some public employees who are doing their job: first they come crashing into the gardens, they come rushing in from all sides, they wander in, and now we have to hear that employees from SKAT are molesting people because they are doing control work on private contracts in people's gardens. One may disagree that they should have the opportunities, but quite frankly: try to talk properly about public employees who do their job within the framework of the rules. I think we owe it to them at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183602	That is precisely the challenge of having a social democracy that we have here. There is no understanding at all for ordinary people. Here I am reading an email from a citizen who feels completely offended and trampled on by public authorities, completely. And it's about the principle. 747 times it has happened that private citizens have experienced that people from SKAT have entered without a court order in their private garden, 747 times. It may well be that the 746 other times have not been so intimidating; it may also have been; I have not experienced it myself, but it is the principle of having a social democracy which is completely indifferent to the citizens, completely but which defends employees who do what just penetrates people's gardens, instead of putting themselves in the place of the citizen. And that is why this was specifically aimed at the tax minister and the Socialist rapporteur. That is why we have a political system; that is why we have a democracy; that is why we have a constitution; and that is why we have a European Convention on Human Rights. It's to protect the citizen, not to protect the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183701	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183714	The debate is open. The first to speak is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512183741	The resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, which we are now considering, concerns the introduction of a levy on wood-burning furnaces in residential neighbourhoods and similar areas connected to the collective energy supply. Let me begin by stating that the overall aim of the proposal, that is to reduce air pollution in cities, is, of course, something that the government agrees with and that we have been focusing on in recent years. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency is making a great effort to provide information on how citizens can optimise their use of wood stoves. There are also various labelling schemes which can guide consumers in which kilns provide the best environmental protection. The Government considers that the introduction of a charge on wood stoves such as the one proposed by Enhedslisten is not appropriate or effective in reducing air pollution. There are several reasons for this. A charge on wood-burning furnaces in private homes will not affect the actual use of the furnaces. Therefore, the tax will not provide an incentive to fire less or fire more energy efficient or more correctly, it could also be said, thus reducing the discharge of harmful particles. Many chimney sweepers say that it is often the case that it is not fired properly. That cannot be changed by a tax. In addition, the tax will be levied at a disadvantage and regardless of how much the individual furnace pollutes. The tax will therefore hit low-income groups hardest. There are also high administrative costs involved in the introduction of a levy on wood stove ovens. It will require SKAT to obtain knowledge of where the individual wood-burning furnaces stand. There is now no official register of wood-burning furnaces, and this will therefore have to be drawn up from scratch. In practice, the establishment of the register will have to be based on the tax returns of citizens in combination with the reporting obligations of sellers of new stoves. There will be a high risk of circumvention of the tax, as control options are extremely limited. A charge such as the proposed one must, in order to effectively address the desired environmental concerns, take into account how the citizen uses his wood stove. Indeed, the environmental impact of furnaces varies greatly depending on the materials used and the firing techniques used. For example, the environmental impact will be significantly reduced if clean and dry wood is used rather than painted, lacquered, glued or impregnated wood. It is also important whether sufficient air is added during the burning process and the quantities fired at a time. In practice, all these conditions will be impossible for the authorities to control. The government cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184037	There's a question. Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184041	After all, it is no secret that wood-burning furnaces, especially in densely built-up areas, constitute a very major pollution problem and are experienced very annoyingly by the neighbors who are. I guess that's why the government has a plan to reduce pollution from these furnaces by 50%. Until 2030. I would like to ask the tax minister whether he believes that the measures taken so far by the government are sufficient to achieve that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184109	After all, I am not the Minister for the Environment, and it is the Secretary of State for the Environment to do this sort of thing, but I would like to make it clear that the idea of solving that challenge by means of the tax screw is certainly not an idea which is at the heart of this government. On the other hand, there is good reason to look at a number of the additional measures. I am, for example. Knowing that if you comply with the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's advice, you will be able to reduce particulate pollution by up to 80% by means of this initiative alone. at the start-up stage, and that means a great deal. Therefore, with various other initiatives, we will also be able to achieve some results. As I have said, this is in the areas of other ministers, but it does not change the fact that we have clear intentions on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184210	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184212	Now it would be very, very distant for me to interfere in the government's choice of which ministries are assigned different tasks. It's infinitely far away from me. I will then have to have the Minister for the Environment in consultation on this matter, I understand, because that is the way to get it clarified. We'd be happy to do that. I would just like to ask the Minister for Taxation whether it is the case that taxes imposing the polluter to pay the social costs caused by pollution are also something that is far away from the government, so that it is a principle that taxes such as behavior regulation, in order to help pay the price, the behaviour that you have, really costs, are also contrary to the basic principles of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184253	There is certainly excellent scope for regulation in the application of taxation in different contexts, but what is unfortunately the case in the case in question is that there is at least no evidence to suggest that the introduction of a tax, as described, will have an effect which could hit so precisely that those who pollute the most will also be the ones who will pay the most. If that were the case, then it would be a different discussion, but what I have devoted a lot of my speaking time to contesting is that you will not be able to hit very precisely, and there will also be a number of administrative challenges in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184340	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184349	Thank you for that, President. Today we are considering Enhedslisten's proposal to introduce a tax on new and existing wood stoves, which, according to Enhedslisten, aims to limit the use of biofuels in private homes. First of all, I must say that the fact that Enhedslisten will leave it to the government to draw up a concrete proposal for a new fuel tax cannot be discussed with the support of the Left. The proposed charge for the use of wood stoves in private homes is certainly very similar to the fuel tax that we fortunately caused the government to drop. The resistance was massive from citizens, companies and forest owners, who were right to see that firing with firewood and wood chips became significantly more expensive, and it became much more bureaucratic to manage than had been foreseen when these opportunities were first looked at. In particular, people in rural areas are hit hard by such a proposal, but in the Left we want green realism in environmental policy. Instead of imposing new taxes on Danes, so that it becomes more expensive to be a Dane, we will encourage Danes to buy environmentally friendly wood stoves so that air pollution is reduced as much as possible. We are part of the government's air package, where we want more of the 75 million. kr. is used to subsidise environmentally friendly wood-burning furnaces, so that the Danes get a greater incentive to replace their old wood-burning furnaces more quickly. In addition, it is of course a good idea to always ensure good information and a campaign about ignition and firing etc. So the Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184530	There's a question. Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184533	I would like to know whether it is the policy of the Left that it is a very good idea to use heating using wood stoves in areas covered by district heating, that is to say by the collective energy supply, because that is what this proposal is about. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Thomas Danielsen, Left, believes that it is basically a very sensible idea to have a stove and use it to fire up when living in an area already covered by district heating.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184559	We have no policy on that in the Left. We are of the opinion that we should not interfere in whether we want some form of individual heating in the form of a wood stove, because there is a collective heating system, that is to say district heating or otherwise. So we have no policy on that. But we can question many of the resolution presented, for example. In relation to the percentages in relation to the consequences, they include pellet pine, wood-burning furnaces, areas where there is no collective heating, etc. What I think we should be dealing with is that the vast majority of the air pollution we have in Denmark does not actually come from Denmark, it comes from abroad. That is why this is an international task in which we should be some of those who take the lead, just as we are in the world, in order to ensure that we reduce the air pollution we face as a challenge in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184654	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184656	Is it to be understood that the Left believes that the pollution caused by the stowages in urban areas, which at least a great many neighbours of these stowages complain about, does not actually exist and that it is certainly not a problem which the Left intends to address?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184713	Then Mr. Per Clausen is wrong if the rapporteur was told that it was not a problem. Yes, there are challenges, and that is why we are also involved in a conciliation to about 75 million. kr. to reduce air pollution from furnaces, but what I questioned was the figures that are now included in the material, where we can see that 8%. you could reduce by making a ban on this. I question that because the vast majority of the wood-burning furnaces that are being fired are therefore outside the areas where there is collective heating. That means that it might be down to 3 to 4 per cent. Out of the 3 to 4 per cent. is half of them pill guy. So we're down to 1-2 per cent. Maybe. That is why I am merely questioning whether there are proportions between the proposal put forward by the rapporteur and the consequences of reality. But the air pollution that we have in the cities in particular must be taken seriously, and that is also why we are included in the air packages that we are now in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184814	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is Mr. Jacob Lund as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512184822	We are here today to discuss Enhedslisten's proposal to introduce a tax on the ownership and use of wood-burning furnaces, if you have the opportunity instead to use collective energy sources such as wood-burning furnaces. natural gas or district heating. Today, wood-burning ovens account for approx. 70% of the Danish particle release. Pollution is a major health impact, and this and the consequences of it must be taken seriously. That is why the Socialists also agree that it is important that we take care of how wood stoves are to be used so that it is done responsibly. However, we do not agree with the Enhedslisten's proposal on how to do it. Enhedslisten suggests we need a whip. We must introduce a tax on the ownership and use of wood stoves when other energy sources are available. But a tax solution will result in a large amount of administration and then control, and that will entail costs. Therefore, we would much rather use other tools. In the autumn the government presented its clean air package, where we had stove ovens as a special effort area on the same footing as ship traffic and bus traffic in the cities. We have emphasized the introduction of the new wood stove notice with information to citizens about proper firing and the pan-European effort to reduce air pollution. The fire brigade notice was issued in January of this year and makes more stringent demands on particulate emissions and the environment. In fact, a new stove can only emit half as many particles as before. At the same time, we have put great emphasis on the fact that those users who continue to fire in their older wood stoves know how to do it right. You can remove up to 80%. of pollution, if you turn on in a proper way in a wood stove. About one in three Danish homes has a wood stove and we are not interested in telling them that they are not allowed to use it as their preferred or additional heat source. But we are interested in helping them to do so in an optimal way. There are no perfect energy sources, but we can use what we have in an optimal way for the benefit of both health and the environment. Therefore, we will continue the strategy we have put forward, with demands for new wood stoves, information for citizens to use them optimally and a common European environmental effort. Against this background, the Socialists cannot support the proposal. I should also like to welcome the radical rapporteur and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185118	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185121	After all, it always helps the pace when the two governing parties have a joint rapporteur, and I do not know whether the Radical Left would have anything special to do here, so we shall probably live without it. But I'd like to ask Mr. Jacob Lund, whether it is his assessment that by implementing two things, namely making stricter demands on new stove clowns and giving guidance on how to fire up correctly, it will be possible to reduce the pollution from stove clowns by these 54 percent, which the Danish government itself is putting up for the EU is talking about 64 per cent, but let's see how it falls out. Can it be realized by means of it? In other words, it is not often that people switch stowages, and it is not all information campaigns that work equally effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185206	It can be said that there is currently a replacement rate of around 25 000 wood stoves per year, as I have been told, and that is still a good deal. The question is, then, how many of these wood stoves are in the area which will be affected by this tax compared with those which are covered by the collective heating system. It is certainly difficult to say; I do not have an overview of that. I do believe that if people actually realise that they are firing in the wrong way and use the wrong tools, that is the challenge of the wrong firing in the wood-burning furnaces and therefore do not use matches to light up, which also makes them get more out of their wood, and if they are regularly informed about it by the chimney sweeper and others, it will help the environment. If you get those numbers, I'll leave them unsaid, but at least you'll get closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185256	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185258	It will be interesting to hear whether the government and the Socialists have considered and analysed why this information campaign should work so much better than so many other information campaigns. I think it might be a little exciting to know. As far as the second point is concerned, as Mr. Jacob Lund says that perhaps you will, and perhaps you will not, and that time will have to show, I would like to ask whether it is not quite understood that this is actually a pollution problem which causes a great many Danes health problems, and that there is therefore a very good reason to take action against it fairly quickly. It seems to me that this socialist plan is very, very long-term.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185339	I'm not gonna be able to tell you what it's like to do it. However, I am quite convinced that information in this area is relatively important, precisely because the way in which wood-burning furnaces use their resources is wrong. The moment it starts to smell, you've done it in the wrong way, and then particles come out. I fire myself with wood at home in several respects, and there should definitely not be smoke coming out of the chimney, because then it is done in the wrong way, and then something has to be done about it, because then I use my resources incorrectly. I am quite convinced that there are a lot of other wood stove owners who are aware of this. So I believe this can work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185417	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185424	The motion for a resolution tabled here by the Enhedslisten seeks to introduce a levy on wood-burning furnaces set up in housing in the collective heat-supply areas of this country. I do not think I am shocking anyone by saying that the Danish People's Party rejects the resolution. However, I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party also recognise the primary problem that Enhedslisten is trying to identify a solution to the problem of particle contamination from Danish wood stoves and that this is a health problem for many people in this country. We just do not believe that the solution to the problem is to introduce a new levy on wood stoves, as Enhedslisten proposes here. The secondary objective, as I read the comments, should be that the introduction of a tax on private wood-burning furnaces should help to strengthen the economy of collective energy supplies, in that the competitive relationship between wood-burning furnaces and the supply of district heating or natural gas should be improved. Nor is it an objective that we want to support, at least not with a levy on wood-burning furnaces. If the collective heat supplies are so good, they should of course be the natural first choice for the individual home owner. I would like to say that in the Danish People's Party we see it as a very basic thing that the individual homeowner can acquire a wood stove and can buy his wood himself or pick it up in the forest or cut a tree in his garden and cut it out for wood and use it for heating. So it is not something that should be subject to taxation. So we think it is a bad idea to introduce this tax, as the Enhedslisten proposes. I think it will also be difficult administratively. The easiest solution will of course be if you make a tax on the purchase of wood stoves. A little harder it will be enough to establish the ownership of a wood stove, in and with there may be some wood stoves that are not registered anywhere. Finally, I think that the worst idea in the proposal is that energy production should be taxed in the kilns. That means taxing according to how much they are used, as I understand it. It can be a dangerous mess if you have to go out and check how much people use their wood stoves. You're supposed to get inspectors out there and see how much fire people put in? This could be extremely administrative. So I have to say that we in the Danish People's Party believe that it is a noble purpose to combat the health consequences of improper firing, but we cannot therefore support the solution proposed by Enhedslisten to do so by using taxes. We believe that the best thing is to inform the wood-burners of how they fire properly so that they do not bother their neighbours. We simply believe that owners of wood stoves are people who just want a cheap form of heating and who are basically not out to bother their surroundings, but perhaps because of ignorance of the optimum firing they will create a particulate pollution that is unintentional. In these words, we in the Danish People's Party reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185752	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Steen Gade, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512185806	Thank you. First, a little about the problem, which is linked to wood-burning furnaces. Others have mentioned this, and I am sure that the rapporteur for the proposers will also go into it more, but that is just to say that pollution from wood stoves is greater than we like to talk about, and that is a much, much bigger health problem than we normally refer to it as. That is why, of course, a large number of initiatives have been taken, and the Minister mentioned some of them. It is our view that we are not at all in place with the number of initiatives that are needed, and that is, in fact, just the beginning of my contribution here. Then I would like to say about the proposal itself that we think it might be sensible to have a look at whether something can be done with the tax instrument here. So I actually want to say to the Enhedslisten rapporteur that what I think we could get out of this proposal is that one could actually ask the government to do some research on what kind of charges could work and in what way. It can be said that this is an exceptionally different proposal by not pointing out any models here. There is, of course, freedom of movement, and that is why it is also just to say that the only thing that can be done with this proposal is actually to try to see if the effect and possible design of the tax instrument could be analysed in this context. In fact, we are in favour of this and have been in favour of it for some time. Three different methods of taxation have been mentioned here. One is that you have to have a charge on having a wood stove standing, that is, ownership. That then requires that we have them registered, and we do have that to a considerable extent, but perhaps not a hundred percent. The second is then a tax on heat production. I have read the Ecological Council's proposal for this, but it is all something that has not been fully developed. We simply do not have the technology that works to measure the heat. But what we are going for is actually something else, and that is the pollution it creates. It must be pollution that we are looking at; it must be pollution that we act in relation to. If, then, there are areas where it has to be said that the air conditions and the surroundings are such that pollution from the furnaces is really too high a risk for the people who live nearby, then we think that instead of this instrument we should look at whether we can make some special serviettes in individual areas. It was a long talk about what I am positive about. What I would like to conclude with is that I am simply incomprehensible to the argument which is also being used by Enhedslisten. It is just mentioned that it undermines the economy of the collective energy supply. In other words, one can also say that solar cells are hollowing out the economy, and I know that Enhedslisten has so far been a great supporter of the fact that we are getting solar cells set up, even in the collective heat supply. It can also be argued that good energy efficiency of houses undermines the collective supply of heat. I just don't buy that argument in this context. But if we could have a sensible analysis of whether we can use the tax instrument, we will look at it. Because, as far as I can tell, we need to be ready, and it's my final replica to look at more instruments than the ones we have in our toolbox right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512190233	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Mette Bock as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512190251	Today we probably have close to 750,000 wood-burning furnaces in Denmark, and that must correspond to up to a third of all Danish families getting part of their heat from wood-burning furnaces. So here is an area that is not yet subject to tax. We must get to that! So with the usual environmental arguments, the Enhedslisten will now strike at this citizens' group, which is supposed to cause over 200 annual deaths. We already have energy taxes of well over 40 billion. If there is something that distorts common sense, it is precisely the complicated and extreme tax and subsidy regime that we have built up. Last week, on the front page of the specialist newspaper Engineer, one could read that the many biofuels, including wood pellets, that are pouring into the country from near and far, because they are now exempt, are killing wind energy and leading to molbo-like situations where we have to give away the power after we have burned people, in order to get subsidies to get more of it produced and thus not getting the wind flow into the heat pumps, which otherwise can give a much better economy in the heat supply, as long as we cannot store the energy. If you can't keep up, I get it. I have a problem with that myself. The article shows that once the power plants have invested in biofuels plants and we are nearing 70%, that investment must be remunerated before you start going any other way. However, there is one place where I would agree with Enhedslisten in his argument: the fact that we cannot be sure that biofuels, including wood pellets, are sustainable. There is no doubt that more CO2 can be measured and so it is, even if it is the coals you want to get rid of. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of enlightenment. We believe that the tax and subsidy regime in energy policy should be reduced, not reinforced, and that is why we are against it. And if you're worried about the environmental effects... and of course you can reasonably be... then you might be able to use more gunpowder to teach people how to turn on properly, which should solve 80 per cent. of the environmental problems according to the Ministry's own website. In the Liberal Alliance, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512190522	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see a conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512190531	In fact, I think that Mrs Mette Bock is right when she says that in this area of energy taxes we have an intricate, incomprehensible and far-reaching environmentalist regime. I quite agree with that. That is why it would be sensible to start any debate on taxes on energy or energy production by saying that we must have a general change to that system. Whether it is in the direction of the Liberal Alliance, which abolishes all taxes and hopes that it will lead to a massive and gigantic economic recovery, which will then finance everything that is currently being financed by taxes, or whether it will be a redistribution of taxes, we may not agree entirely, but I do agree that the system we have today is not very sensible. I think that is quite right, and that is the story from the Engineer to which Mrs Mette Bock referred, a very good example of that. That is why, and I think that is fair enough, we could have a problematizing whether continuing with knobfire is a good idea. Let me just add that this is what is essentially being done. There was little encouragement in the speeches today, because the way to solve this challenge, that is to say the massive pollution actually caused by wood stoves in parts of our country and especially in the densely populated parts of our country, is by two methods: by people getting a new wood stove and by enlightenment. I guess it'll take 30 or 40 years for us to replace the kilns in this country with the speed it's going on today. So to say that this is a solution certainly requires a patience which, when you reach my age, you find it difficult to live up to. Then, of course, there is information, and we know that information is a very good idea. We love information and information campaigns in this country. Sometimes we evaluate them and find that the effect is not so terribly great. Whether you recognize it here or not as a major problem, it is a challenge. At any rate, I believe that most of us have received quite a lot of requests from citizens who feel bothered by wood-burning furnaces and who see it as a very concrete pollution problem, and if you have got to deal with it, you also get some inquiries from some citizens who love their wood-burning ovens, and that is why it is such a matter that you can get a little crazy to deal with. But that doesn't change the fact that this is a huge challenge. You can take the big numbers and see that when it comes to particle pollution in Denmark, 70 per cent of it comes from. of the non-industrial combustion, as it is so beautifully called, that is to say wood-burning furnaces, and particles are a really big challenge. I would like to say that, in a way, I share Mr. Steen Gade's idea that you can imagine that there are areas in this country that you would say are stove-free zones. That would probably be very relevant in some places. These are perhaps some of the same places that should be car-free zones. But there are some places where pollution is so massive that it might well be the right way to go. That is a correct view. It is true, as it has also been noted, that putting forward proposals on how to try to ensure that the polluter pays by means of taxes, and trying to ensure that the price paid for a particular product or service also corresponds to the environmental impact that exists, can be a very complicated matter. At least one thing is known: if the Treasury itself has not come up with the tax, they are able to make everything completely impossible and incomprehensible. It can be said that the ability is almost there when we come up with a tax ourselves, but then it does not do anything, because then all the challenges can be solved. So we are left with the fact that we are saying that people have to choose for themselves and that people have to decide for themselves, and then they have to wipe out the environmental and health costs that it pays to the rest of society on everyone else. This is one of the problems if you do not want to get into a tax discussion. Sir. Steen Gade had noticed that we have not come up with a specific concrete proposal on this. That, sir. Steen Gade said, correctly understood, because in reality we are trying to get into a kind of dialogue on how to set up such a system in order to achieve the benefit that we want to achieve. One might also say that there is also an input to the discussions that are going on all the time about how we can link our charging system together. We can, of course, put some questions to the tax minister about this in the further process, so that we can have it further clarified, just as we can see if we can clarify in the discussion of this resolution whether the Minister for the Environment himself believes that what she has taken the initiative so far is sufficient. In any case, I think that would be quite exciting. In any case, the discussion does not end with this debate, because all the parties that do not think this is the right thing to do and which have a great deal of patience in the first place will be subjected to some pressure in the years to come from the people who are today exposed to this pollution and who may not quite have the same patience. Well, then we'll see what that can lead to. I also noticed that Mr. Steen Gade had discovered something that might suggest a contradiction in Enhedslisten's thinking. Of course, that is not the case, although I would like to believe that Mr. Steen Gade would be the one who would find out if it were about it. The point is, of course, that when we have a critical approach to the ability of wood stoves to outperform the collective heat supply, it is partly because we do not actually regard stove as a very good energy way of creating heat. We also believe that it is inherent in both CO2 and CO2 as well, of course, and if it is not explained sufficiently in the observations made in the resolution, then it is in any case tried to explain it here and now. But I thank you for an exciting and interesting debate. I was about to say for a positive treatment, but now you should not exaggerate and pretend you have not heard what people are saying. In any case, I would say that we do not consider the discussion on how to solve the problem of the pollution caused by wood stoves to be concluded with this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191208	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191213	Thank you. Sir. Per Clausen has perhaps now explained what the proposal means, but the proposal actually says: Finally, the use of private wood-burning furnaces undermines the economy in the collective energy supply. It's written as a special argument, and that's why Mr. Per Clausen have me forgiven that I could see that if instead of wood stoves there had been solar cells, it would have been the same argument. That's what I was trying to say. Now I can understand that it was only in relation to wood-burning furnaces, but it is not really because it undermines the economy, so it is because you have something against wood-burning furnaces.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191300	There is a difference between whether the collective heat supply is eroded economically by something that is environmentally sensible or by something that is environmentally unreasonable. So there's that difference. But I'd be happy to admit to that, sir. Steen Gade, we could have written that with greater care. It happens sometimes in this world that when you are discussing something you have written, you remember that you could have written it a little more accurately and a little more wisely. At least it's something that, when you reach my age, you've tried sometimes in your life, and then it might be wise to admit it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191331	Thank you to the rapporteur. There was another one? Well, it showed up late. It's sir. Thomas Danielsen, who has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191342	Thank you. In view of the fact that the rapporteur is now presenting this bill because of the challenges faced by air pollution, and this is especially so in the large cities, I can understand the rapporteur's main challenges, which I agree with the rapporteur in his question. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he has any idea what the real air pollution in the areas where we have collective heating from wood stoves and only wood stoves is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191411	The figures available for pollution from wood stoves are, after all, the national figures. In addition, we know that there are concrete examples, one might say, of local problems which are very large, but which perhaps, if diluted at national level, do not mean so much. And there the rapporteur is right to say that we know the two things, that is to say the general one, and then we know the specific one, but how much these specific, sad cases represent in the overall national problem, I dare not answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191442	That's it? Then I think I can thank the rapporteur. Yes, I do. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191505	The debate is open. The Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191524	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the proposers for allowing us to discuss the new Barroso Directive on the possibilities of imposing a ban on the cultivation of genetically modified crops in Denmark. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I would first like to point out that the Barroso Directive should not be confused with the new proposal by the European Commission, which will allow Member States to introduce a ban on GMOs in feed and food. The new proposal mainly affects imports. The Barosso directive, which is the subject of the resolution, is instead about the cultivation of genetically modified crops here in Europe. No GM crops are being grown in Denmark today, and it is the government's intention to apply the new rules fully, so we ensure that GM crops are also not grown in Denmark in the future. Until now, it has only been the EU that has decided whether or not to grow GMOs, including in Denmark, is legal. As a new feature, we have now been given the opportunity to ban genetically modified crops for cultivation at national level within a defined framework. Denmark has been working on this since the proposal was tabled in 2010, and I am, of course, pleased that it has now become a reality. In order to take advantage of these opportunities, we need to adapt our own national legislation in this area, and the Minister for the Environment and I are working on that. Now to the motion for a resolution itself: the Enhedslisten proposes that we use the new rules to introduce a general ban on the cultivation of genetically modified crops. The government cannot support this because it is simply not legally possible. It is the clear opinion of lawyers that it will not be legal to impose a general ban on the basis of the Barroso Directive. This would be contrary to both EU law and WTO rules. It is clear from the Directive that all prohibitions must be objectively justified, proportionate, non-discriminatory and based on serious considerations such as: national environmental policies. That is why we will also have to decide in future on each GMO crop case on a case-by-case basis. It will also continue to be the EU Food Safety Authority, EFSA, to assess whether a genetically modified crop is a danger to humans, animals and the environment. Therefore, the reasons on which national prohibitions can be based must go beyond the issues already addressed by EFSA. However, despite the fact that we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal, we naturally support the intention behind it. There are no GM crops in Denmark today, and that is how it should continue to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191806	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191811	In the light of what the Minister for Food has said, I am not going to prolong the debate unnecessarily, in order to start a longer EU-legal discussion with the Minister for Food, taking much more time than we have today, and perhaps not so terribly important either. I should just like to say that we on the Enhedslisten are very pleased with the clear statement that has been made by the government that there is no wish for GMOs grown in Denmark, and we are happy to help ensure that it is also implemented so that we can ensure that it becomes reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191840	I'd like to sign for that. I also know that there have been similar discussions in other countries where it is also my impression that the lawyers of the governments concerned have come to the same assessment as the lawyers on whom we rely, but we are, of course, following developments closely and are looking forward to continued cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191901	There wasn't any more from sir. Per Clausen. Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512191920	Thank you. When we consider the motion for a resolution B 95 on the ban on GMO cultivation in Denmark, tabled by the Enhedslisten, the Left will vote against it. With the motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten proposes that all cultivation of GM crops on Danish territory be banned by the end of 2015. The motion for a resolution is tabled in connection with the fact that it has become possible for EU Member States to prohibit GMO crops, even if the crops have been authorised at EU level. In the Left, we believe that it is important that Denmark can help develop and use new knowledge about non-hazardous GMOs. The Enhedslisten will then, if necessary, completely rule out their proposals. The proposal will thus eliminate the GMO industry in Denmark, and Denmark will no longer be able to participate when other countries benefit from new GMO technologies. In the motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten argues that the specific GMOs should not be dealt with, but that applications should instead be able to refer to a total ban. We in the Left believe that this is unreasonable and unnecessary. Of course we should not allow harmful GMOs, but why should GMOs which are proven to be harmless be banned? The Left considers that there is no reason to reject the EU's approval of GMOs, as the authorised GMOs have already been assessed harmlessly by the European Food Safety Authority EFSA. Enhedslisten believes that there are no economic benefits of GMOs. There is a lack of perspective in what Enhedslisten presents, and if there had been no economic benefits from using GMOs, the industry would not be interested in using them, and the Enhedslisten's proposal would, moreover, be superfluous. The proposal will impose further restrictions on the food and agricultural industry and increase competitiveness, and despite the serious problems facing the sector, the intention of Enhedslisten is nevertheless to impose even more and more burdens. So in the Left we reject the proposal and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192130	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192133	You want me to understand, sir? Erling Bonnesen is such that what the Left says is that all the GMO plants approved for cultivation in the EU should also be able to grow in Denmark? The second question is: what are the economic consequences that growing GM plants in Denmark will have in relation to the economic consequences, for example. can get for organic producers if their products and their land are contaminated with GMOs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192202	No, of course we should not just stamp out what comes from the European Union and then say that it is okay. However, just as it is today, where individual Member States can take a stand independently after the European Union has dealt with it, we think, as has also been shown in the debate on previous occasions, that Denmark is taking a stand on a case-by-case basis and from, we can say, crop to crop whether or not we should introduce it. And then it is obvious that if there are harmful conditions around it, we should of course not have it, but if there are gains from it, it would be appropriate to consider saying OK. But it must then be based on a case-by-case assessment or, as it were, from crop to crop.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192242	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192243	I am glad that I received the in-depth answer from Mr. Erling Bonnesen. I should just like to ask you a further question. Erling Bonnesen and the Left that it is worth the cost to run a risk of e.g. organic production is contaminated by GMOs? Is it worth the risk if, moreover, a small economic gain could be achieved by producing these GM plants in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192310	Nah, as Enhedslisten puts it up here, and if there are significant risks, then of course it will be included in the assessment, and then there is much to argue that one should say no in such a situation. But, of course, there are also the rules relating to the EU's approval system, and there are also the rules of coexistence. Of course, the procedures need to be run through, and then there will be an overall assessment. And if it then points in a negative direction, then I cannot imagine that you will say yes to it. However, if it were to end up with an assessment where it is said that it could be fine and that there could be other advantages that could come into the concrete assessment in the specific situation, then I think it is wrong that we should then rule out the possibility of being able to come to the conclusion in advance that there could be approval of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192352	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Orla Sea as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192400	I would like to thank Enhedslisten for raising an important debate, which has also been on the agenda here in the Danish Parliament sometimes in recent years. It has been explained that the resolution is about whether we should, in general, ban GMOs on Danish soil for environmental reasons. It has come to light because the European Parliament has approved that individual Member States can now decide for themselves whether or not to allow GM crops. We think this is a wise decision, because there can be a great difference between the challenges and the needs of agriculture, for example. Spain, Italy, and those we have in Denmark. That is why the decision to let individual countries decide for themselves is a good one, and that is an opportunity that we must take advantage of, because the fact is that, as we know, we are not producing GM crops in Denmark today, and we do not want that to be done in the future either. That is why we also find it satisfactory to hear the Minister of Food state that GMOs should not be grown in Denmark. GMO cultivation is going the opposite way to ensuring that Danish food is still as in demand in the global market as we see it today. They are because we in Denmark guarantee quality, sustainable, environmentally friendly and ecological food. Green production and exports are therefore not contradictory but a prerequisite. This means that we can compete on parameters other than who can produce the most at the lowest price. That race to the bottom we will not be able to win, and therefore we must hold fast in the future not to grow GM crops in Denmark. As the Minister has explained, there is no legal possibility of introducing a general ban on GMOs under EU law and WTO rules. Instead, each GMO crop must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. We are obliged to live up to this, and we must, of course, do so, and on that basis we cannot support the proposal. However, I still think that there is reason to welcome the fact that Denmark now has self-determination in this area. This allows us to ensure the production of sustainable food here in Denmark, and it is a work that we, on the Socialist side, look forward to continuing with. Then I should like to say that these views are also valid for the Radical Left, whose rapporteur was unable to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192654	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. René Christensen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512192716	Then we stand here with a proposal to ban the cultivation of GMOs in Denmark. This is not the first time we have discussed this here, either in the Food Committee or for that matter here in the Assembly. The whole Food Committee has even been out at the Farmers' College in the last period and, as such, tried to stand and re-modify plants. One has such a feeling that it is such a lot of hocuspocus, but it may not be so much after all. We can see that many of the plants that we have today, which may not be genetically modified, are at least modified in relation to the way the plant looked originally, and in relation to the way it looks today, but from there to say that we should just introduce GMOs, and say that we have no reservations about that, is some way to go. We have decided to do so in the Danish People's Party, and we have done so in the Danish Parliament as well. That is why we are very pleased that there is a broad majority who has agreed that we should have an approach where it is said on a case-by-case basis, because we should not ignore the fact that technology sometimes helps us too. The Enhedslisten is a party that is very much in favour of our environment and against environmental impact, and we should not overlook the fact that at some point, with the help of technology, we can also have the opportunity to look at how we affect the environment through the use of pesticides. In any case, I also know that the proposer, Mr. Per Clausen, is aware that among others. When we look at potatoes, there are experiments that show that potatoes are very exposed to, among other things. to get mushrooms and other things, which is why potatoes are one of the crops that is sprayed most. The potatoes are one of the crops that are really affected when we look at the use of pesticides. There you have experimented with it, and in Sweden you actually grow potatoes, which are GMO potatoes, which are being sprayed considerably less than you do with ordinary potatoes, as we know. That is not to say that we think we should go that way, but we think that we should be open to look at whether at some point there could also be a product on which we say that we feel so sure that we want to do so. Where there is also a great challenge is in ecology, that is probably where the greatest challenges are. It is, of course, the spread of seeds if they were allowed to do so. Denmark is a small country, and what we can see is that we have great potential also on the ecological agenda. That is probably where the greatest challenge lies, because can we guarantee that we do not see spread in relation to seeds from GMOs to organic land? We've been traveling the world, we were among others. in Argentina. There you would have solved it by having a limit now you have to be careful what you say from the Parliament's platform, but I think it was something somewhere between 5 and 10 km between an organic field and a conventional field. If we were to introduce such a border in Denmark, we would have imposed a ban on the introduction of GMOs. But it tells us that even in these countries, which are very liberal about the use of GMOs, there are major challenges. That is why we believe that the approach we have to it today is that we in Denmark are not afraid of technology, but we are very, very sceptical, and we do not, in fact, allow GMOs to hold on to. But the agenda is right. We also made a political agreement on these genetic markers. If it's an antibiotic marker, then we say no in advance. Well, we've decided that we won't allow that in Denmark. So I really think that we are in the right place politically. We're very critical. We are not saying 'yes' to GMOs immediately, but we are also not afraid of technology to look forward to the future and see how technology can help us in this area too. So thank you for the suggestion. I don't think this is gonna be the last time we're gonna discuss this. I believe that many of us, as politicians, are under intense pressure to loosen up the attitude of Denmark today, because, of course, there are also producers and, for that matter, farmers who can see great potential in growing GMOs, and, of course, our task is also to go with the precautionary principle that we must of course also be imposed on how this can affect nature and the environment in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193143	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193145	After all, I agree with Mr. Knox. René Christensen in that over the years we have actually made many relatively sensible decisions in this area, and most of them we have actually taken together ■ I am quite happy about that. But I'd like to ask Mr. René Christensen: Are there any of the GM crops that are in circulation today, which the Danish People's Party thinks should be opened up to, or should I just understand Mr. René Christensen's speech is such that it cannot be ruled out that something will come up to what is constantly being talked about, namely that we will have something that is safe, not spread and, incidentally, have some fantastic gains? For it is clear that this can always be discussed, but the question is: is there any such thing today about which, Mr President? René Christensen will say that we need that in Denmark, we must let that in?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193228	No, we don't actually see that. And it is particularly corn that is the great challenge, at least when we look at the European Union. We can at least see that that is what the Minister said a little bit about this not being about food, because that is where we regularly approve that you can now sell to food, popcorn and other things when new types of May have arrived. Corn is a widespread plant, which has some characteristics obtained by GMOs, and we from the Danish People's Party do not want to open that up now. It can therefore be said that this is the ultimate proposal, namely a ban on it. And there we say that the approach that we now have, despite everything across parties, we have a balanced approach to it, I think, is not technologically frightened. I don't think you should be in this time. There's a lot of new stuff going on around here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193315	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193317	After all, there is now plenty of breeding of plants, which actually includes a lot of technology that is not GMOs. So it's not so much that whether it's technology or not; it's like how to use it. But I'm actually very happy with Mr. Knox. René Christensen's answer. So I'm just gonna ask sir. René Christensen, if it is not also true that if you look around the world, you actually have considerably more examples that GM crops have led to increased so we actually have a lot of bad experiences. And every time we face something that's gonna be really good, we say it turns out anyway that when it comes to putting it into practice, it's not quite that good.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193356	Yeah, especially if you look at generation one like that. After all, we have this product, which I mean is Johnsongrass, and you use it because you have run monoculture and then used glyphose over large areas. Then it turns out that the wild plants around the land too are resistant to glyphose, and suddenly you have some weeds that you cannot fight. And then the rapporteur is quite right to say that even more is being used to combat the weeds that exist. That is why in this case, and I must say this: across changing governments, there has actually been a very good attitude towards GMOs here in the Danish Parliament, and that is why I do not really think this proposal is necessary. Because we have these agreements that lie, about how we deal with it. There are some things we say absolutely no to; then there are some things we can discuss. Fortunately, it is a very large circle which each time has to decide whether or not it is something to say yes to. We are actually very confident about this, because this is an extremely important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193458	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The radical rapporteur was covered by the Socialist speech, so that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512193520	We should not be afraid of technology, we heard from DF's rapporteur. Gmo can feed the whole world, we hear from biotech companies. Well, there's no end to all the good things that GM crops can do. We also sometimes get ourselves very worried about GMOs shot in our shoes, that it is almost a religious approach to the world, like not to change what God has created etc. It's not about that. It is about GMOs being used today, first and foremost, as the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution also describes in the comments, to create resistance to pesticides, glyphosate, a number of things, are being used to spread poisons against insects. We from the SF agree with Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten) and with the Minister for Food, I also heard now that the way we should go is to ensure some incentives for more people to become ecologists, grow sustainable agriculture and ensure more robust soils. The UN has produced a report which shows that in a number of developing countries it is actually wise, organic farming with different species, switching seeds, etc. that will yield the most robust yield. I think it is so extremely provocative that one should hear when one is sceptical about GMOs that if we just did it that way, we could eradicate hunger in the world. The reason there's hunger in the world isn't that we don't have GMOs. It is that there are a number of countries that have corrupt leaders who can't figure out how to distribute their own food; that we have inequality; that there is war and a number of other things. We could easily produce enough food in the world under optimal conditions. It's not about GMOs. It can be said that it is quite fine that the Member States have been allowed to say no to GMOs. I think that's actually okay. I also think we should strengthen EFSA in the European Union. One might say that this might undermine the fact that we have a Danish ban in advance. But the problem is a few of the things that are included in the proposal that include the fact that, among other things, we are dealing with. must be part of a negotiation or discussion, or how to interpret it, with producers who want to grow GMOs in Denmark. The last thing I want to say is that if there were a majority in favour of this resolution, we would still have as much GMO feed in Denmark as we do today. We have a lot of GMO feed, although we do not have GMOs. I would like to thank Enhedslisten for bringing this up, because I think there are a lot of disagreements about what GMOs are and what GMOs can be used for. Those who believe that through GMOs we can improve a number of plant species and make them more resistant and yieldable, I think I forget that, and I think the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned that all these things can be done by far better processing. We lack processing techniques in Denmark, we lack research in processing. We lack a much wider form of cultivation of very diverse varieties, old varieties. We have monoculture in Denmark. We could ensure a much more robust production if we had a more diverse production of varieties. I am not quite sure that we will be supporting the Enhedslisten proposal yet. I think this is very positive, but I would like to have a discussion in committee also with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on how we might relate to the fact that there will still be imported GMO feed in Denmark, which in theory can also spread. However, I fully agree with the concern that lies behind the Enhedslisten's proposal, also in relation to pollution, in relation to co-existence rules and so on. So that is by no means a no to Enhedslisten's proposal. I just still think that there are some things that need to be discussed in relation to the proposal, even in terms of actually strengthening EFSA's work in the European Union. Whatever your view of the European Union, the most important thing is that we also have international rules that ensure more sustainable food production in the future and also ensure that, in a global world, the food we import is also not contaminated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194041	Sir. René Christensen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194042	I didn't really plan for that. But is the rapporteur really aware of what GMOs are? Well, I don't know where that speech is drawn. Gmo, it's genetically modified. That is to say, it can also be done by refining. The rapporteur is certainly not opposed, for example, to the fact that we are not in a position to do so. has an apple tree and that, because you have grafted it, do you have two different kinds of apples on it? There are more GMOs. There are GMOs where you have antibiotic markers. There are GMOs where the only purpose is to spray glyphosate. But then there are also all sorts of GMOs, and that is why we say that we are not in favour of saying 'yes' to growing GMOs, but that we should also not oppose anything that might help us in the long term to use much, much less spray poison when we produce food. When the rapporteur says that this is pure poison, does the rapporteur also think that if you have an apple tree in your garden that you have grafted, so you have two different kinds of apples on it, then it is the pure poison that comes out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194142	Perhaps the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party should have followed his first impulse and not have asked me that question or listened to what I said. Because I said that, of course, you're for processing. We have been doing this for thousands of years. We have refined our cereals. We have refined a number of things so that a higher yield could be obtained, which was particularly important after the Second World War. Of course, we are not opposed to this. We are opposed to some of the examples, or all of the examples we are familiar with today, where GMOs have been used to be resistant to Roundup and to a number of poisons, which is why we have to say that as long as GMOs are used to pollute, for example. The products of organic farmers are quite absurd. In principle, claims could be made against ecologists because GMOs are blown over a field. As long as it is the GMO products we see, we are, of course, very sceptical about that. I'm not against breeding. SF isn't, Enhedslisten isn't, the Minister for Food isn't. So I think we should stick to GMOs as we know it today. That is also what is expressed in the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194302	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194304	But what is it you do when you breed? Then you take the best genes from the best plants. I mean, something GM is, you do what you can be 20 years to do on an area. You can do that in less time because you take the best genes. So not all GMOs are evil. Some of it may be of the good. Therefore, you still have to be very careful to put it on the land, in relation to what it is for properties such a plant has, when you do something that usually takes 20 years. You can do that over a season because you do it in the lab. But what the farmer has been doing for generations in the field is what can be done today in a laboratory relatively quickly. What I am just sorry about is that the rapporteur calls GMOs poison. Gmo's not married. Gmo is a way to make a processing operation where you do it very quickly. We must be sceptical about this, but it is boring to have a discussion about a product that you make in a laboratory, then called poison. It is true that some of the products have been made resistant to poison, but the product itself is a processing of a food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194410-2	Well, I think the rapporteur has heard wrong. I haven't called GMOs poison. I have said that these are the examples we are talking about when we talk about GMOs today, compared to poisons such as the pesticide glyphosate, Roundup. I also think, and there I agree with the rapporteur, that we should be very precise about what we are talking about. If we're talking about breeding, making varieties more resistant, better, I guess we're all for it. But in relation to what GMOs are being used for today, I just cannot come up with an example that could not be done in relation to processing based on what agriculture has spent thousands of years on. But that is why we also need to be very precise about what we are talking about when we talk about genetically modified crops, namely whether we are completely changing crops and whether we are marketing crops so that you can no longer grow them because Monsanto or somebody else owns them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194510	Mrs Lone Loklindt for a brief comment? No. Then I would like to thank the SF rapporteur. Mrs Mette Bock as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194536	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that in the Liberal Alliance we cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution on the ban on GMO cultivation in Denmark. So there is something strange about banning something that you don't know what is. If we had had to make it up throughout Danish political history, we would certainly have stood still many centuries ago. I imagine the introduction of electricity and that we had cars in Denmark, yes, numerous are the things where we have feared that the most terrible things would happen. If, for example, we do not know what to do. had known that the fact that we were going to drive would mean that hundreds of people a year would die. Now, fortunately, the number is about to be low again, but it has been really, really bad, so we probably wouldn't have adopted it. In fact, today we already have some rules on how we treat GMO products, both what we do in relation to GMO products already in the country, but also in relation to if anyone would like to grow GM crops; we already have rules on what needs to be done with regard to application, with regard to authorisation, with regard to control and with regard to guidance on the cultivation of GM crops. I think that we should be sceptical and we should be critical of everything in this human life, including the introduction of such a thing as the cultivation of GM crops on Danish territory, but I think it is extremely stupid to say no to something that we do not really know what is, and therefore the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194725	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is that sir? Lars Barfoed as Conservative rapporteur? Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194744	The Conservative People's Party's rapporteur on this matter, sir. Daniel Rugholm cannot be present, and that is why I have promised to say what else he intended to say. The Conservative People's Party cannot support this resolution. It is the case that genetically modified crops are not already grown in Denmark, apart from the experiments that researchers are engaged in, and in addition, Danish farmers are only allowed to grow GM crops if they are approved. These approvals are given after a longer process and a current risk assessment, which is made in collaboration between the European Food Safety Authority, NatureErhvervsstyrelsen, Denmark's Environmental Studies at Aarhus University and the Danish Food Institute. Cooperation is administered by the Ministry of the Environment. On the basis of these risk assessments, of course, the authorities assess environmental and human and animal health issues. In addition, we in this country have laid down the so-called coexistence rules to ensure that if GMOs are grown alongside conventional and organic crops, the genetically modified crops cannot be mixed with the others. That is why we consider the motion for a resolution superfluous. Among the experts it is stated that there are both advantages and disadvantages of GMOs, but we are confident about the risk assessments made by the authorities and the country's best researchers in the field of environmental and food safety. We think this is quite sufficient to ensure the safety of citizens, animals and the environment, which is also the intention of the proposers of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194933	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Finally, Mr President, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512194945	I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for Food for his very clear speech here in the debate, where it was clear that the policy of the government for the development of food production and agriculture in Denmark does not include GM crops. I think this is really important because if GMOs are allowed, it is also important for the ability of other forms of production to flourish. It is, of course, very good to refer to the rules of coexistence. The last time we talked about co-existence rules has now been a few years ago, and there we were reasonably agreed that we should have tightened up the co-existence rules, improved them. Then it ended up with that work stalling, because our assessment was probably that we did not immediately have to approve GM crops in Denmark. At any rate, I would say that those who are now suggesting that this could be discussed should at least not refer to the existing rules of coexistence, because in this way there was a very broad consensus among the parties that negotiated it at the time that they needed to be tightened up. I also find it reassuring to note that the safest way to maintain resistance to GMO crops in Denmark is to ensure that the political majority that exists today is preserved after the next elections. It's not that it's always been like that. I remember back 10 years ago, when I was first involved in these discussions in the Folketing. There you could be sure that the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten stood shoulder to shoulder, and then other parties wobbled. Today we just have to note that the Danish People's Party is also faltering in this area. Whether it is because one is preparing to become a support party or perhaps even become a government partner with parties that do not waver, but as such, more or less offensively says that GM crops can be considered as part of the Danish agricultural strategy, is of course difficult to assess. But it's worth noting, I just think I'll say. After all, there are some reasons why we are negative about GMOs. You can always talk about GM crops that come sometime in the future, which will have miraculously beneficial effects. When I started with this, I got shot in my shoes all the time that I was trying to prevent this GMO crop that would make it possible to find mines without sending anyone out to search the field. Unfortunately, it turned out it didn't work. I have also heard of many other good things that could come with GM crops. We have, for example. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Now it has just become apparent that using GM crops often results in the requirement that pesticides are actually used. This means buying some cereals which are patented by large multinational companies, which means that it will be more expensive. It is the case that, in the vast majority of poor countries, common, sensible organic food production is far, far wiser if you want to increase production, create a better economy in production and create better opportunities to support yourself. So even if we can say that we should not reject everything that can come in the future, it may well be in a situation where it is not possible to see that there are some types of existing GM crops that one might dream of letting be produced in Denmark, somewhere being simple to say: we adopt that, we do not want that. Then it may be, and may be, the minister is right; he has had many years to practice on this matter with EU law • that the minister is right that it cannot be done for the sake of EU law. Then we will have to find other ways of ensuring the same result, and there I am at least pleased that the current government and the current Minister for Food are prepared to do so. If we now take the GMO crops, then there has been this discussion whether it could reduce the consumption of pesticides. So far, we have seen that this has led to the opposite result. It hangs, among other things. along with the fact that when you use pesticides, the weed becomes resistant, so it ends up having a plant that is GM to be resistant, and then some weeds that have developed the same resistance. You've had these toxins that are poisonous to insects, where the insects are, in fact, also being reclaimed, perhaps even those that should be exterminated while you get rid of those that should not be exterminated. And that's really, really stupid. Then there has been the question of whether it is possible to avoid dispersal, and I am in fact inclined to believe that Mr. René Christensen is right that if you get up to 15 km, you can probably avoid spreading; at least we do not know about corn pollen that has moved more than 4.5 km away from the field of cultivation. But even that is quite a lot under Danish conditions. And that is what raises the question of whether one can have organic production while at the same time having a GMO production in a country like Denmark. There you have to be aware that you can make some rules that say that if there is no human error, nothing will ever go wrong. Then it has to be said that we have very, very many examples of human error leading to GMO pollution. I know that it can be said that most of them have happened in the United States and Canada and in other countries, which sometimes, when you discuss GMOs and other things, you can get the impression that some Danes think that they are particularly backward and cannot find out anything. But it is, for example. In Sweden, too, the potato, which Mr. René Christensen mentioned, because besides the one who was supposed to be there, it suddenly turned out that there was also another GMO-modified potato that was not supposed to be there at all. And it was human error, but human error occurs. And if you have both the experience of GMOs so far that it leads to increased pesticide consumption rather than reduced pesticide consumption, and you have experience that there is indeed a spread, even if that is not the intention, then that is certainly an important argument in itself. Then there have also been discussions about whether GM feed is harmful to the animals that eat it, and there has been such a discussion here in Denmark that it was not really possible to find out whether it was one thing or the other that was the explanation. It could also be that it was simply using more glyphosat and that there were larger glyphosat residues in the GMO feed that came, but in any case it is a huge challenge. I would say that we in the Enhedslisten are very pleased that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament at this time who are rejecting the idea that GM crops should be grown in Denmark. However, I also note that both the Left and the Danish People's Party are very sceptical about introducing it, and that no one is really enthusiastic about it. So we have good opportunities, I think, in this way, to maintain Denmark as a non-GM in relation to crop cultivation, even though it must be said that the safest thing to do is to ensure that we retain a parliamentary majority in the Folketing which is roughly the same as the present one. With a little in contrast to the previous point, where there was little encouragement, I have to say that this discussion has led essentially to the conclusion, I think that one can reasonably safely conclude that we will be able to maintain in the future too that GM crops do not become part of Danish agricultural production. And, of course, in the Enhedslisten we regard this as extremely important, because we have an ambition level in relation to ecological change, which probably not many people in this Chamber share all the way. However, I have a clear perception that most people share our view that ecology is a really, really important part of Danish food production in the future. And that should certainly not be undermined by opening up to something where the positive effects are lost in the uncertain and the negative are all too obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512195750	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512195754	Yes, and that's because I think it's too bad that Mr. Per Clausen says someone's faltering. According to Mr. Per Clausen's argument could be accepted because it's not something we say yes to now, and then you could just roll it back when you got there. Well, that's what we've decided, even together. We do not accept the cultivation of GM crops in Denmark • we decide on a case-by-case basis. Then there are very many areas where we have said that we do not even have to discuss that, we just say no. Depends on what kind of different genetic markers there are. We're just saying no. If anything comes up that might be interesting, it should actually be taken up in the political circle, and then you have to discuss it there. That's the regime we have today, and that's it, sir. Per Clausen suggests we have to have. Sir. Per Clausen says that now all we have to do is make a law that we don't want it, and if something good comes along at some point, we can just change it. Well, that's the regime we have today. The Danish People's Party does not waver in any way on this issue. Now something has been mentioned about animal feed, and we have proposed that we should try to lift up in the European Union, that we do not have aerial spraying in the feed that, among other things, has been produced. In fact, thousands of tonnes of pig feed are imported into Denmark and the rest of the EU not only poses a challenge in relation to the environment, but also poses very great challenges in relation to population groups, among others. We would like South America to go up again and, by a majority, to get the government to work for it in the European Union. It's just to say that we kind of have the set of rules that Mr. Per Clausen is requesting today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512195922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512195923	I am a little bit unsure whether we in Denmark have a completely nagelfast agreement that we do not approve GMO crops in Denmark unless there is agreement on this in the Folketing. That is why I am a little bit unsure of what can happen if there is a different majority in the Folketing than what we have today. But if Mr. René Christensen is prepared for us to make a report or an agreement on this, which says that there will be no opening up to GMO crops in Denmark unless there is agreement between the parties that have concluded the agreement, then that is a way to ensure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512195959	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512200002	It's just too bad that Enhedslisten is trying to turn the question of this technology into something very black and white. Because when we look at the disease development, where people who are sick get well with the medication they get, we cannot ignore the fact that very much of the medicine is genetically modified. You've found out by genes to make medication that makes people healthy. We are not opposed to that. We even go so far, so we say that we are not against animal testing either, just when it comes to medicines for people, because there is such a big gain that one is willing to compromise on it. There the Danish People's Party just says that we should be sceptical, that we should stick to the line we have set, but that is why we should not write off all options in the future. And then, sir... Per Clausen is absolutely right that it has been tested in several places, and there are also many places where things have gone wrong, but it should not be believed that there can be no progress in the future in this research as well. But we don't waver in the Danish People's Party... we stick to the agreements we've made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512200057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512200058	That's good, of course. I would also like to say that I believe that there is much more progress in technological development in relation to the different species which are not genetically modified and in which there is much more perspective, but which certainly also involve technology. The second point I would like to make is that it is quite correct that we in Denmark agree to use genetically modified organisms in the production of medicines, but this is also happening in a closed cycle, unlike if it takes place in the field. So that's why Mr. René Christensen is right: We do not reject the technology we refuse to use the technology in the open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512200137	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512200158	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 19 May 2015. First of all, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Nikolaj Villumsen, to explain the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512200223	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has called this question to discuss the issue of the right of peoples to self-determination and the right to vote on independence. It is a theme which has always been relevant and which will probably always be relevant. In Europe, over the last few years, we have had discussions and referendums on independence. I think we all followed last year when Scotland had a vote on independence from Britain and I think we followed it with great interest. This became a narrow 'no' to independence, but the debate was very relevant and the culmination of many years of desire to have the opportunity to hold such a referendum. In this way, the democratic vote in Scotland was a milestone. In 2008, the Kosovo Parliament concluded a declaration of independence which has now been recognised by the majority of UN countries. In Greenland and the Faroe Islands there are ongoing discussions about the degree of self-determination and independence in relation to Denmark. It is good and it is important that there is room for democratic discussion. Discussions on independence, self-determination, the holding of referendums are an essential part of our development as democratic states. The borders of the past are often the result of wars and power struggles rather than democratic decisions. In fact, it can be said that the referendum on the Danish-German border back in 1920 is an exception which confirms the rule. In modern Europe, it is time to put an end to the violence and power of the past and instead to settle questions of independence, land borders and self-determination in democratic and peaceful ways. That is precisely why the vote in Scotland was so important and so interesting because it has given a historic opportunity to vote on the issue. A highly topical discussion that is taking place right now is the discussion that is taking place in Catalonia. In Catalonia, the people have their own language, Catalan, and a long history of oppression, especially under Franco's regime, and over recent decades have had varying degrees of self-government. The debate on possible independence in Catalonia goes back a long way historically, and it was last seen in November that the Catalan Parliament decided to hold a referendum. They approached the Spanish Government and asked for permission to hold a referendum, but the Spanish Parliament refused to grant permission and declared the referendum illegal. The dialogue between Spain and Catalonia is currently very deadlocked, and the question of independence remains a major issue and will probably also be the subject of the forthcoming Spanish elections and the Catalan elections in the autumn. In Denmark, of course, it is crucial that we do not take a stand on for or against independence, but that we as part of Europe should relate to the democratic framework that is being created for the debate on independence and the possibility of holding a referendum. It is important that we work both in Denmark and in Europe to find democratic and peaceful solutions to the discussions on self-determination.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512200546	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then I give the floor to the Foreign Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512200556	Thank you very much, President. The Enhedslisten has asked me to explain how the government supports the right of peoples to self-determination in Catalonia. Central to the answer is a closer understanding of the content of the right of peoples to self-determination, including whether this right includes a right to independence, i.e. that of a population having its own state. Traditionally, a distinction is made between what is characterised as the internal and external aspect of the right to self-determination. The internal right to self-determination is a right of a people within an existing state, let us call it the mother state, to enjoy certain rights. There are a number of UN documents which more or less define the content of the norm in detail, but, like so many other international rules, the content is controversial. However, some aspects which are often highlighted are the possibility of participating in the democratic process of the mother state, protection against discrimination, the right to speak and receive education in its own language, and the general maintenance of social, cultural and religious traditions specific to the people concerned. In short, the possibility of maintaining and cultivating the identity of the people, within the framework of the mother state and the reasonable framework of its legislation. So there was the internal right to self-determination. The external right to self-determination is generally understood to mean the right of a people to separate themselves from the mother state against its will and to form its own independent state. This external aspect of the right to self-determination has a very limited scope. As an international standard, therefore, the external right to self-determination has essentially been expressed during the decolonization period of the 1960s and 1970s and can be seen to reflect the principle that a people who inhabit overseas colonies and who show a political will for independence are entitled to do so. This basically describes the main principles of the right of self-determination in force. These principles of the right of self-determination are reflected in a significant 1998 Supreme Court ruling on Quebec's possible independence from Canada. The decision, which I mention because it can probably be regarded as an expression of international law, concludes that for Quebec, which is territorially an integrated part of Canada, there is no right of international law to independence against the will of the mother state. The judgment states that a State, whose government represents the population or communities of the territory, on the basis of equality and without discrimination and with respect for their right of self-determination in the internal order of the State, is entitled under international law to the protection of the territorial integrity of its territory; in other words, the mother State has a right of international law not to be divided up. This wording naturally raises the question of what applies if the mother state does not respect a people's internal right to self-determination. Does it have as a reflex effect that the people thereby have a right to external self-determination, i.e. independence? The traditional answer to this is no. A state may violate the right to internal self-determination, but as such it does not give the oppressed people a right to independence. If other states wish to protest over this, other states may seek to ensure that the mother state respects the principle of internal self-determination through the ordinary instruments, for example. political pressure, or by raising the issue in international fora. However, I must point out that the Canadian Supreme Court's ruling states that there may be certain extreme situations of gross human rights violations and repression of the population concerned. These are situations in which the boycott of the internal right of self-determination is so severe that independence from the mother state must be accepted under international law. The point of view of international law is not uncontroversial and we in Denmark have not taken a very detailed position on the substance of such a possible right of international law to independence as an expression of the right of self-determination, but we do not reject it either. As my description of the situation in Catalonia will now make clear, it is not relevant in this context either. This is not such an extreme situation that Catalonia has a right to independence under international law. Catalonia is referred to in Spain as a historically autonomous region. This is done in recognition of the geographical, linguistic and cultural roots of the region that go back to the Middle Ages. However, the political role played by Catalonia throughout history is very controversial. Catalan-oriented politicians and historians usually point out that throughout the period up to the 18th century Catalonia was a separate nation and for several periods even an independent and sovereign political entity. It changed after the Spanish succession war, which began in 1701. When Barcelona was captured by Spain and fully incorporated into the Spanish Empire in 1714, Catalonia lost some of its former status. For Catalan nationalists, this is an important dividing point in the history of the region. On the other hand, supporters of Spanish unity attach greater importance to the fact that Catalonia has never been a separate, independent political consensus, but has always been subject to other, larger states. In the Middle Ages the Catalan counties were either vasals of French kings or under the kingdom of Aragon. In 1469 Catalonia became part of Spain and has been so ever since. 1714 is merely seen here as a confirmation of this status. With industrialization in the 19th century, Catalonia became one of Spain's richest and most developed regions, and at this time the modern Catalan political movement arose for greater self-determination in the region. In 1932 Catalonia received its first statute of self-government, which recognised the region as a separate entity. It gave the right to its own parliament and government, as well as special competences in areas such as: health and welfare. From 1939 the Spanish military dictatorship suppressed regional differences in Spain. Regional political movements were forced into exile and restrictions were imposed on learning and using regional languages, including Catalan. On the transition to democracy after Franco's death in 1975, Catalonia became one of Spain's 17 autonomous regions. The new statutes of the region were adopted by a large majority in 1979 and the first free regional elections were held the following year. A revision of the Statute of Self-Government was adopted in 2006 under the then Socialist Zapatero Government, but in 2010 it was partially overruled by the Spanish Constitutional Court. The Court annulled 14 of the 223 articles of the Statute and reinterpreted 23 others. Among the unfamiliar elements were the wordings that Catalan autonomy is based on special historical rights and the designation of Catalonia as a nation, since the Spanish Constitution does not recognise any other nations than the Spanish. Other unrecognized elements of the Statute were the wording of the Catalan language, which gave Catalan special status in schools, public administration and public media at the expense of Spanish, as well as the proposed model of greater financial autonomy for the region. Disillusionment with the acceptance of the new statute led to major popular demonstrations in Catalonia. It is interpreted by many observers as the beginning of the present movement for independence, which can be seen both in political life and in recurring demonstrations. The Spanish regions have extensive autonomy on a European scale. Thus health and education are regional competences. Some regions such as the Basque Country, Navarra and Catalonia have more autonomy than others. Catalonia, for example, has... its own police, replacing the national police forces. As far as languages are concerned, Catalan is the main language of the region and is used by public institutions and authorities, and there is public broadcasting in Catalan. In the public schools, Catalan is taught. Finally, let me sum up: as I said, Catalonia has extensive autonomy on a European scale and there is a wide scope for using Catalan as a language and for developing Catalan culture. Therefore, following my examination of the international aspects of the right to self-determination, it is also the Government's view that, in relation to Catalonia, there is no question of serious human rights violations and the repression of the Catalans. This is not a situation in which a boycott of the internal right of self-determination is so gross that independence from the mother state must be accepted under international law. It is therefore the Government's view that, in relation to the debate on possible Catalan independence, this is a matter in which the Danish Government's interference is neither necessary nor desirable. The question of the possible independence of Catalonia is therefore a matter for Catalonia and the Spanish Government in Madrid. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512201534	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Then we go to the debate, and that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512201555	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the statement. This is, of course, a complex and exciting discussion which, of course, fills a great deal for Catalans and Spaniards, but which is also relevant to the rest of us in Europe, because it is, of course, a fundamental discussion about guaranteeing the right of peoples to self-determination and that this is respected, too, of course, because it affects us when there is tension in our neighbouring countries in Europe. I hope and wish that a democratic and peaceful debate can be held on the question of the independence of Catalonia. And I have to say that I am concerned that Spain has refused to open up the possibility of a referendum and that it has even brought proceedings against politicians in the Catalan Parliament to raise the debate. Discussions on independence, self-determination and the holding of referendums, as I said in the explanatory statement, are an essential part of the development of our democratic states. It is absolutely essential for democracy that solutions be found through peaceful political discussions. In my opinion, it requires democratic openness and willingness to take the necessary discussions, to accommodate it when there is an overwhelming desire to hold a referendum, just as we saw in Scotland. The Catalans have their own language, they have gained more autonomy since Franco's dictatorship, but in recent years the situation has got worse. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned, in 2010 new restrictions on self-government were introduced, and the issue of independence is therefore high on the agenda in Catalonia at the moment. Large demonstrations have taken place with over 2 million participants and there is a discussion on the issue which is very large and wide in both the Catalan and Spanish press. It is therefore very timely that we are discussing the matter right now, and it is also important that we support a democratic dialogue. The Catalan Parliament wishes to hold a referendum on 9 November this year. The Spanish Parliament has refused to allow such a vote, and I am concerned that there is a deadlock in the debate. We should not take a position in Denmark on the issue of or against independence, but it is important that we, as a democracy, and that we in Europe, among democratic countries, discuss how we can set the framework for a debate on independence and the possibility of holding a referendum to the best possible extent. I am therefore also incredibly pleased that we have the debate in the Folketing today, and it is important for me that there is broad support for the proposal for adoption, which represents a majority behind it. Against this background, I would like to read out the proposal for adoption on behalf of the Socialists, the Left, the Radicals, the SF, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Government's statement on the historical, political and international aspects linked to the situation in Catalonia and agrees that the question of the independence of Catalonia is a matter for peaceful and democratic dialogue between Catalonia and the Spanish Government in Madrid. • V 52).
ParlaMint-DK_20150512201912	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. The read-out proposal for adoption by a number of parties is, of course, part of the further debate. There are no brief comments, so that is Mr. Søren Pind as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512201941	The Left takes note of the Government's statement on the historical, political and international aspects of the situation in Catalonia and agrees that the question of the independence of Catalonia is a matter of peaceful and democratic dialogue between Catalonia and the Spanish Government in Madrid.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512202003	I take it as an indication that the Left is maintaining its share of the proposal for adoption. Søren Pind President, it is all in the proposal for adoption). Yeah, I could hear that. So thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Jacob Lund as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512202029	The Enhedslisten has raised a debate on how the government will support the respect of the people's right to As the Enhedslisten puts it, a large majority in the Catalan Parliament and in the Catalan community want the Catalan Government to hold a referendum on independence. The question of independence is an emotional issue and the inhabitants of Catalonia must be respected by Denmark. And we must support a democratic and favourable debate in this area. As the President of Catalonia explained in Information last Saturday: You must understand that Catalan identity is basically based on our language and our culture, not on ethnicity. It is our spinal cord, and many Catalans who want independence do so on the basis of a desire to preserve our identity. To understand the political process we are experiencing in Catalonia right now, it is not enough to look at economic or social factors. It is a desire to be recognised as culture and language in the world. ▪ We want to take this seriously and support it, but it is important to be aware that Catalonia already has a great deal of autonomy. This means, among other things, that the Catalan language is the main language in the region. Catalan is used by the public authorities and institutions and on the public Catalan radio and television stations, and in the public school the teaching is done in Catalan. In addition, by European standards in general in Spain, there is a high degree of autonomy, for example in health, education and regional matters. Some regions have more autonomy than others, including Catalonia, for example. even have their own police. But the Minister has made a very full statement on this. We must help to promote a peaceful and democratic debate on the autonomy of Catalonia, and it is important to emphasise that Catalonia is not a region in which human rights are violated or the population is oppressed. That is why this is not a situation in which their internal self-determination is suppressed to a degree which means that an independence from the mother state must be accepted under international law. On the Danish side, we generally work in the world to support elements that are fundamental to the right to self-determination, for example in a wide range of areas. by strengthening social, cultural rights and by assisting states in the decentralization and construction of local democracies. These are all elements which are important in terms of the right to self-determination. And where the state actually acquires independence, yes, we help to build new state administrations and administrative apparatus. With regard to Catalonia, there is no doubt that the issue of independence is an important issue for a substantial part of the population. We need to take it seriously, among other things. by giving attention and support to the democratic and favourable discussion. But I think that we in Denmark can contribute to a constructive debate by giving that attention and not knowing that we in the Danish Government are interfering in matters which are considered to be issues between the Catalan Government and the Spanish Government in Madrid. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512202418	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512202434	Thank you. It is, of course, normal to say thank you to the authors of the question that they have raised the debate. Right here, I think I'm going to make an exception. It's hard to understand why we need to discuss this. I would like to begin by saying that we can agree with what the Foreign Minister has said, with his statement on the legal aspects of such matters, and also with the statement. For our part, we believe that the idea that we in the Folketing should interfere in a discussion between the regional government of Catalonia and the Spanish Government is strange because it is a country that is so close to us, a country that is a member of NATO and of the European Union and to which we have a close connection and which is a free country and a democratic country. I find it strange that Enhedslisten can imagine that Denmark has some title to interfere in the discussion that is there. In the same way, I think it would be strange if Spain suddenly had a parliamentary opinion on the independence of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I would find it very, very strange if one could imagine a vote in the Spanish Parliament on how things should go with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I think you'd be wondering about that at home. Some of us might get a little angry about it, I imagine. There are many secession movements around Europe, we know that. Scotland has been mentioned. There are the Basque Country, Corsica, Wales and many, many others, and there are hundreds of rebel movements in the world who, for one reason or another, want a secession from the motherland. I find it difficult for us to interfere in what is going on around here, especially in a country where there is no form of violent repression against a possible popular minority, as the situation is in Spain. We have chosen not to go along with the adoption that is taking place, even though it is quite good. We have chosen to vote yellow precisely in order to indicate that this is something in which the Danish Parliament cannot interfere and should not interfere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512202714	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lone Loklindt as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512202736	The Enhedslisten has wanted us here in the Danish Parliament to take a position on the independence of Catalonia or, rather, on whether we want to support the people's right to respect their self-determination, in the context of the fact that a large majority of the Catalan Parliament, the Catalan community and the Catalan Government wish to hold a referendum on independence. Now I am, in fact, pleased that we should not take a position on the Catalans' desire for independence. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement, which gave us both a historical review and also a review of the latest update of international law on how to deal with this sort of thing. The fact is that it is certainly not possible to claim that there is serious repression of the Catalans. There is extensive autonomy in Catalonia, and if you visit the area, you have no doubt that the main language is Catalan and that the schools also teach Catalan and that there are Catalan police and television etc. However, it is not the case that we do not want there to be a democratic dialogue and that there must be support for that dialogue to take place in Spain between the Catalan Government and the Spanish Government. It is a task they have together, and the Radical Left can therefore support the joint opinion on which we have co-sponsored it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512202925	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512202938	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement, which was a comparatively clinical analysis of both the international and the historical elements of it here. So I have no reason to question that. As far as political matters are concerned, I think it might be worth discussing them from that point of view. I think there are many of us who are fascinated by Catalonia. It is not just about FC Barcelona, which, as you know, is playing tonight in Munich, but it is also about the role of Catalonia in modern Spanish history. If we go back to the Spanish Civil War, then we see that it was very much in Catalonia that the democratic forces were unfolding. George Orwell wrote his very famous book "Holdest to Catalonia " in this context. There is no doubt that in the fight against the Franco regime, it was the Catalans who are throughout the Franco period who pressed in opposition to Franco and in this context played a very, very important role. When you think of Catalan culture, many of us have visited the area, it also gives a fascination with that part of Spain. That is why I think we need to discuss this. Somewhere there's a movement that wants more autonomy. I understand that it is not independence that is on the agenda in this way. It is more disappointing that there are backward steps in the negotiations, in the discussions between the Catalans and the Spanish Government. That is why we would have liked to have extended that discussion elsewhere. In any case, I would like to say that I very much hope that there will be some results from the discussions that exist between Barcelona and Madrid on the future situation of Catalonia and that it can also be dealt with democratically. One of the things we also need to be aware of is that the minority debate, which is taking place in many parts of Europe, has a wider European perspective; I will just come back to that in a few minutes. There are far too many examples of violent incidents, of resistance movements, because there is no room for democratic and peaceful development. This has been seen elsewhere, in Spain, for example, without me saying that it is Madrid that is why the Basques behaved the way they did, but yet it is something for which we have joint responsibility. That is why I think it would be a good idea if, in the European Union and in Europe, we had a slightly more fundamental discussion about how we should deal with these different minority demands for more autonomy and what rights they might have. After all, it is quite topical on the question of how Ukraine, for example, East Ukraine, should be handled, and part of official Danish policy is that more autonomy must be given to Eastern Ukraine and elsewhere, without it being pure anarchy, because it would be quite, quite awful if one suddenly got a completely anarchistic situation where borders can simply be changed without further ado. There's got to be some sort of order, and there's got to be some kind of legality behind this. However, I think that it is very good to have a discussion of it, even in the light of what has happened in Scotland and what may be of examples elsewhere. That is why I think there is reason to follow the discussion between the Catalan Government and the Madrid Government, without, of course, interfering with it. I fully agree that this would be completely wrong. It would be foolish if we went in and intervened on the Danish side. We cannot, we should not, but we must, if I may say so, pay attention to it and keep up with it, and we can also have an opinion on it. I don't think there's any problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203421	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203438	Thank you. I think this debate on the right of peoples to self-determination is incredibly exciting and I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the initial explanation of the difference between the right to self-determination and the right to external self-determination, i.e. the right to secession. As far as internal law is concerned, all historical experience shows that if you start to deprive a people of the right to speak their own language, to form their own associations, to create their own schools, etc., then things will go wrong. I think it is worth reminding you that on 29 March we actually celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Copenhagen-Bonn declarations, which happen to be called the Bonn-Copenhagen declarations in Germany. We did that in Berlin, where among others. Both the Danish and German Foreign Ministers were present and representatives of the Danish and German minorities were present. What is amazing about these declarations is that it is not an agreement in which the countries bind each other, but two identical declarations have been made alongside each other, where the Danes committed themselves to our German minorities, and West Germany committed itself to the Danish minority in South Schleswig. That kind of self - regulation, one might say, we might wish there were other groups of people who had within their own territorial boundaries. They could be inspired by that. I would very much like that, and I think they could actually be inspired by that in Spain, given the nature of the discussion there. Then there's the thing about the right to secession. I would like to refer to an amazingly exciting lecture I heard this weekend. I was at the Border Association's annual sender meeting, where there were 200 senders present. There Professor Uffe Østergaard, who is a historian, gave an excellent lecture where he presented the thesis that, with regard to developments in the European Union, he could imagine that in a few decades we are not just 28 member nations, but perhaps 10 or 15 more, without the geographical area being enlarged. His point was that with regard to discussions about Scotland, about Catalonia and elsewhere in Europe, regional self-awareness is becoming stronger and stronger in these years. You may want to be part of the great community, but you don't want to be part of the modernity you actually belong to. I think this was an incredibly exciting thesis, and it is also interesting to see, following on from the recent British elections, that those Scots who took the whole board, in the forthcoming referendum on the British's continued membership of the European Union, just announced that if it turns out that the British will withdraw from the European Union, then the Scots will work even harder for secession, and then they will immediately apply for accession to the European Union. That's interesting. It is then some interesting long waves, and the development perspective is that we see more regions that will slowly demand greater autonomy and perhaps eventually secession. This cannot be ruled out in relation to Scotland, for example, and the Catalans are also working hard on the matter. These are some really exciting perspectives in the long run. But we agree with the broad proposal for adoption that has been put forward, because it must ultimately be a question of dialogue between Spain and the Catalans themselves in relation to Catalonia. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203825	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Espersen, and I think there's gonna be another one, but it's first, sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203833	Thank you. Right in the context of the debate on the European Union, I would just like Mrs Mette Bock to acknowledge that it is in the interests of the European Union that the nation states should be divided into regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203852	In other words, whether it is in the interests of the European Union, I should not be able to say. But that the peoples and peoples of Europe, who have long historical roots around Europe, have a desire that can be stronger or weaker, I think one should respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203911	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203913	Yes, but the European Union has always had an interest in Europe being divided into regions so that it did not have the strong nation states. I therefore think that is an important aspect here. It has been pointed out how exciting it would be to have a region called Schleswig-Holstein. I think so, for example. wouldn't be very exciting. There has even been talk of having a region called Sjælland-Skåne. It may also have some nostalgic undertones, but I don't like it either. It is just fair for us to have that discussion in place: the European Union's great interest is that there are no strong nation states as we know them today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512203952	Now that the DF's rapporteur mentions Skåne, I still remember the former radical minister Hermod Lannig who died in 1996. At that time he was 101 years old, and I think it was at the age of 98 that he wanted to form a union for Skåne's secession. I do not know if the association in question is still in operation. But I would like to say quite frankly that it may well be, sir. Søren Espersen says that it is in the interests of the European Union to have regions instead of strong nation states, but I will allow myself to be very doubtful about that if you go a little bit deeper. The large Member States of the European Union may well have an interest in regions as such, something that flows underneath, but I do not believe that Britain, France and Germany are genuinely interested in having strong regions, at least not as a substitute for strong nation states.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204056	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204059	It is very much in line with that, in other words the vision of what was formerly called the Europe of the regions. It's an old discussion that's been going on. That is why many of the different regions would like it to be introduced. However, this presupposes that the European Union will become stronger. That is the whole point of it, namely that power is being taken from the nation states and transferred to the European Union, and that the regions are also being given more power. That is not uninteresting, but is that what the Liberal Alliance stands for in relation to European policy? I do not think that is what I normally hear, i.e. that they are so much in favour of the European Union having much more power than they currently have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204146	Not at all. But it is, after all, a question of how to define the fact that you have regions. So, if you imagine regions as a complete and complete substitute for having nation states in Europe, then I do not believe it, and I do not think there are others in this Parliament who do, but there are many intermediate variants. What was Professor Uffe Østergaard's thesis was that it may well be that we still have a large France, a large Germany, etc., but he predicts that in several places we will see what we see around Scotland and around Catalonia, where we are actually talking about a secession. It will be just some smaller nation states, but not like the vision of the Europe of the regions on which we have heard a discussion in the past. However, I think that the prospects are very interesting, because we see that now it is not the European Union that we are discussing here • an EU of 28 countries that must share more and more. It points in the direction of some kind of information or reorganisation, otherwise it will not be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204251	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204252	I think this is interesting, because it is a very large project which is being set in motion there, if I may say so, if there are to be border audits throughout Europe. There can be very great perspectives in it. Is it the policy of Mrs Mette Bock's party that we are going to start the very big project? It is extensive, and it can actually be quite revolutionary. I think that's interesting. I would still like to hold on to the fact that if this is to be once on the ground, it is very necessary for it to be controlled from Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204328	The last thing I disagree with is that it should be run from Brussels. So, I do not think that Brussels should govern whether the Scots should separate themselves from Britain or what future the Catalons should have. I was simply referring from a very exciting lecture I had heard because I thought it presented some perspectives. Now I know that politicians are usually expected to have answers to everything. For me, it raised some new questions, set in motion some new ideas in my head, which I think were interesting, also in relation to the discussion we are having in the Assembly room right now, about the Catalans and Spain as a motherland.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Lars Barfoed, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204422	Thank you. I would actually like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for the statement of international law that we received. I felt almost devoted to earlier times at the University of Copenhagen, where I sat listening to the professor's wise international lectures. I would also, of course, like to thank you for the subsequent review of the history of Catalonia and of the autonomy that has been seen in many ways, and to a large extent, in Catalonia, with their own culture and their own language and everything else that characterizes Catalonia as a region which is its own in many ways, even though it is also part of Spain. I would also like to thank Enhedslisten for having raised the question, because that gives us some thought and, moreover, also that we all gain a little more insight into what is now happening in this area. At the same time, I must also say that I am surprised that the Enhedslisten considers that this is a matter for discussion in the Danish Parliament, because it is basically not a matter on which we can decide, it is a matter between Catalonia and Spain. We must, of course, deal with it if it is the case that there are countries that violate international law if people are oppressed or there are otherwise unreasonable things that we must take action against together with other countries, but here we are talking about a country with which we work closely in the European Union, which is a democratic country and a peaceful country, that is to say, in this case, between Catalonia and Spain. I would like to say that I understand very well that there are many Catalans who would like to see an even greater degree of autonomy than you already have, but you do not have a right to do so. That, then, is what is expressed in it, I think, is excellent proposals for adoption, for which we in the Conservative People's Party are also co-sponsors, where we have just made it clear that this is a matter between Catalonia and the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204655	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'll take a look at the minister. I have not heard any questions to the Minister. It doesn't look like the minister has either. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the one submitted for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 19 May 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204719	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 19 May 2015. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the explanatory statement. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512204749	Thank you. This is an important debate. This is an important debate because it is important that we do not forget the Armenian genocide. Like the Holocaust and other crimes against humanity, it is important to remember and important to remember in order to avoid similar crimes repeating themselves in the future. The Armenian genocide took place from 1915 to 1923 and was a deliberate crime by the Ottoman and later Turkish regimes against the Armenian population. The stories from the genocide are horrible. These reports include: here in Denmark in Danish archives, and they do, because Danes were eyewitnesses of the crimes, and Danes were among some of the heroes who helped the victims and who helped save thousands of Armenians from death. It is therefore in itself positive that we have the debate in the Folketing today. Thus we remember the victims of the genocide, we remember the heroes who desperately tried to save lives, both the Turks and Kurds and the Danes and others who unselfishly risked their lives to save Armenian civilians from massacres and death marches. Today it is the hundredth anniversary of the beginning of the genocide, officially marked on 24 April. It has been reminded in many parts of the world, but not in Turkey. The genocide has not been officially marked in Turkey. In fact, the official Turkish storywriting, which the embassy the other day was over and presented to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, says that there was no genocide at all. In the past one could be imprisoned for mentioning the genocide in Turkey, and a prominent journalist was murdered a few years ago on the basis of his work in highlighting the Ottoman Empire and the crimes of the young Turkish state against humanity. The problem of the Turkish Government's rejection of the genocide is very specific. One has to ask oneself whether we would have faith that the German Government would treat Jews properly in today's Germany if the country denied the Holocaust. I don't think we'd want that. Similarly, censorship creates divisions in Turkish society, a Turkish society which is already suffering from oppression and a lack of rights for its minorities. The hundredth anniversary of the Armenian genocide is therefore an important opportunity to commemorate the crime, but also to make it clear that it is important for today's Turkey to fulfil its obligation to ensure respect for its minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512205039	Thanks to the questioner. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512205051	Thank you very much, President. 2015 marks the 100th anniversary of the start of the tragic events that occurred from 1915 to 1923 in the eastern part of what is today Turkey, a tragedy in which a very large number of Armenians perished as a result of forced deportations, massacres and other atrocities. No one knows the exact extent of the tragedy, which is also controversial, but historians are talking about up to one and a half million Armenian victims. It is quite natural that we all, and understandably above all the Armenian people here 100 years later, look back, and that during these weeks and months there are a number of commemorations which many Danes have also participated in. Let me therefore begin by expressing the greatest respect for the victims of this tragedy, the greatest compassion for their descendants and my sympathy and respect for the Armenian people. In this context, let me also highlight the Danish missionaries, such as Karen Jeppe and Maria Jacobsen, whose efforts to save and assist the persecuted Armenian population at that time impose the greatest respect. What exactly happened at the time, nobody knows with full certainty, and it remains a historic task to map and interpret what happened. Few will dispute the scale of tragic events, atrocities and enormous suffering. Neither I nor the government conceal nor dispute a tragedy which, in any case, had such an incredible extent and consequence that disagreements and disputes over numbers seem pointless. But the government is not and has no desire to be an authority on historical issues. The questioners today believe that the tragedy and the events can best be described as genocide. We can all have our personal or academic professional perceptions of which term is most appropriate for the events we are discussing here. Changing Danish governments have not wanted to officially recognise the events as genocide, and that also applies to this government. There are three reasons for this. Firstly, the government believes that history should not be politicised. It should be left to free research and to historians to map what exactly happened and how best to interpret events. We don't have, and we don't need, a state-approved explanation of the course of history. Secondly, with the 1948 United Nations Convention on the Genocide, the term genocide has acquired a specific legal and international content. The Convention defines genocide as a series of defined acts committed in order to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnological, racial or religious group as such. It is pointed out that the essential element of the definition, which in practice is very difficult to prove, is whether the perpetrators intended to destroy, in whole or in part, a group covered by the Convention. Compared with the serious attacks on the Armenians in 1915, the question is whether the intention was to destroy the Armenian population as such in whole or in part. The Convention thus requires an analysis to be carried out which would typically be up to the courts in order to determine whether certain events could be classified as genocide within the meaning of the Convention. The government is not such a legal body. Thirdly, the government would like to see reconciliation and normalisation of relations between Armenia and Turkey. A highly shaken legal political dispute over a single word is not conducive to dialogue. In the context of the Armenian demand for recognition of the concept of genocide, it is possible to follow more concrete demands, for example, for compensations, which will not necessarily be conducive to dialogue either. Let me now turn to the question of the government's position on minority rights and say that, after the Second World War, international legal instruments have been established for the protection of universal human rights and as part of this protection of minority rights. We all have the right to a life without fear and condemnation regardless of faith and ethnicity and nationality. I do not think anyone is in any doubt about the fundamental Danish position on these issues, and the government is working on a broad front to promote human rights and minority rights. I think everyone is aware that the fate of events and the fate of the Armenian people 100 years ago is a very sensitive issue for Turkey. The Turkish approach was exemplified recently when the pope used the term genocide on the Armenian issue and Turkey subsequently withdrew its ambassador back from the Vatican. I cannot and I am not going to speak on behalf of Turkey, but it is my understanding that Turkey would like to see a broader focus on the violent upheavals that took place up to and during World War I and the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, which also caused considerable suffering to a large number of Ottoman Turks. This is part of the picture that in recent years there has been a significant movement in the official Turkish declarations towards greater self-awareness and understanding of Armenian suffering. The Turkish Prime Minister has recently recognised the inhumane consequences of the deportations of the Armenians and has spoken of deportations as a crime against humanity. On 24 April the Turkish Minister for European Affairs took part in a commemoration in the Armenian patriarchate in Istanbul. It is also my understanding that Turkey officially only recognises non-Muslim minorities in practice Jews, Armenians and Greeks as minorities. These minorities have treaty rights, and that means, on the other hand, that other non-Muslim minorities and Muslim communities other than the Sunni Muslim do not have the same concrete legal protection in Turkish law. However, in the case of Muslim minorities such as the Kurds, we have witnessed improvements over recent years, or at least a movement in the right direction. We must, of course, continue to encourage Turkey to continue that movement in the right direction. Overall, I believe that what the authors call the Armenian genocide is a complex historical, documentary and political-legal issue. History is important and we must learn from it, but that recognition must not make us forget the present and the future. It is important to find the right balance between, on the one hand, historical consciousness and, on the other hand, the opportunities that exist here and now to create a better future. It is primarily a matter for Armenia and Turkey to decide how their relations will develop over the next few years. For our part, we must show compassion and respect for the victims then and for their descendants, compassion and respect for the Armenians of today, but also for other inhabitants of the region who suffer from a lack of normalisation, closed borders and enemy images. The way forward must and must be reconciliation, and this requires dialogue and, in my view, it is not promoted by simplifying or focusing on a single word, but by nuance and mutual interest in each other's views. It is therefore my fervent hope that Armenia and Turkey will find each other in the years to come in a meaningful dialogue which can lead to a greater common understanding of both the past and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512205925	Thank you, Minister. The first speaker in the round of negotiations is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512205947	Thank you. I must admit that I am well and thoroughly disappointed with the statement by the Foreign Minister. Honestly, why is it that Turkey wants to censor the word genocide? It simply cannot be right that we should have a situation in which the government of another country can dictate and censor in history. Like the Danish Parliament, like the Danish Government, we should not bow to Turkish pressure. Quite frankly, this is a terrible genocide, which is well documented in history. The Turkish Government does not like history and instead has chosen to take another official interpretation, an official state interpretation of what happened historically. They also want other countries to follow this approach. We saw this with the visit of the ambassador to the Committee on Foreign Affairs the other day. It is not because you hide the fact that you come and present an official state version of history. Fortunately, many countries, and most recently the European Parliament, have chosen not to bow to the censorship of history. Similarly, countries such as Sweden, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany and Austria have refused to bow to the censorship of the Turkish Government. I believe that we in Denmark should do the same. The disagreement in today's debate is fundamental, of course, whether we will allow the Turkish Government to dictate that we should not say a word in Denmark, namely genocide. I have already said the word quite a few times. The Foreign Minister also mentioned it, but never mentioned it in connection with the tragic events he called the genocide in his speech. There will probably also be a situation in which a number of parties will refrain from mentioning the word in today's debate. Unfortunately, we will probably also have a proposal for adoption which does not say the word genocide. I think it is important that we dare to call genocide genocide a genocide and not bow to Turkish pressure. I think it is important that we do not reduce the issue of the Armenian genocide to a debate between Turkey and Armenia. The genocide is a crime against humanity that we should all deal with. We should remember it, and we should work to ensure that something like this never happens again. It is also against this background that we in Denmark have an official holocaust day. Here we remember the genocide of the Jews. It is not new to commemorate or discuss genocide or crimes against humanity in the Folketing. The special thing in this situation is that it is a close ally of Denmark who is involved in the genocide and who denies it. I have to say that, frankly, I do not understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that it is a legal and historic issue to clarify whether there was genocide. So, frankly, I do not think it makes sense unless one sincerely believes that there was no genocide and has arguments to point it out, but it is no secret that there are also people who deny the Holocaust. Should we then also stop calling the genocide of the Jews a genocide? That's not gonna work. It can't be denied just because some people deny it. On the second day, the Turkish ambassador highlighted the difference between the holocaust and genocide in the Armenians. It was that the executioners behind the Holocaust have been sentenced, but that was actually what happened to the perpetrators of the Armenian genocide. They were just never punished, and the punishment was never executed. On the contrary, the new Turkish state began to consistently oppose recognition and prosecution and it has not been possible to take the decisions that the Foreign Minister is calling for, which must be legally. And Denmark knows that, and the government knows that, and the parties of the Folketing know that too. When the Foreign Minister is hiding behind the arguments of the Turkish Government, he is hiding behind a government which has an official policy of denying genocide. It's not history research or law. That is denial, and it is simply nothing but that. It is this denial which, frankly, is deeply worrying, not least in view of the major problems of repression of ethnic, religious and national minorities in Turkey. It has often been criticised in the Council of Europe by the European Union, by the Danish Government, and the Turkish Government repeatedly violates its obligations to the Convention on Human Rights with its repressive policy towards minorities. We should consider in Denmark that it is the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide. We should criticise the major problems of disrespect for the minority in Turkey and, in this context, I think we should adopt the proposal for adoption which I am now presenting. The Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption reads as follows: Proposal for adoption On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide Parliament calls on Turkey to ensure respect for its ethnic, religious and national minorities. • V 53).
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210524	There is one person who wanted to make a brief comment, but I should first like to say that the proposal for adoption is part of the next reading. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210537	Since the Enhedslisten will now make it a custom that we are about to discuss historical events here in the Parliamentary Chamber... it will certainly be a new thing... we could then get an answer to: How far are we going to go and how far are we going to go? So, should there be any limits to what historical events we should take up according to Enhedslisten? I would really like to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210606	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. The situation is, of course, that we are standing here for the hundredth anniversary of the Armenian genocide, and that is the reason for holding the debate today. And the proposal for adoption put forward by the Enhedslisten takes note of the hundredth anniversary of the Armenian genocide and then calls on the Turkish Government to ensure respect for its ethnic, religious and national minorities. This should be something that, for example, SF could back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210632	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210637	[Sound Outlook]... speaks as a politician who has been here for infinitely many years; he speaks completely bypass. I am trying to ask a question of principle: how far back in time do we have to go? How far are we going? Because there are plenty of very scary events that have taken place in Europe over the past thousands of years. Are we going back to them? Or it simply happens that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen in the press has seen that there has been a great deal of attention paid to the Armenian genocide? And I have full respect for the fact that we are discussing it, and I will also discuss it, but I would like to know whether there are any fundamental considerations behind Enhedslisten's policy that we are now about to include historical events. What about Stalin's deputies of the Tatars, the Chechens, the Volga Germans? What about the many other crimes committed elsewhere in Europe? What about Greece's repression of Macedonians in Greece? Should we bring it, too? Then we have to sit and do a screening of all the different events that have taken place if what Enhedslisten is proposing here is to make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210756	No, I'm not talking about it. On the contrary, I replied quite clearly. I replied that this debate was convened on the occasion of the hundredth anniversary of the Armenian genocide and that that is why we have the debate. And that is why we have the debate in many other places. For example, it has been adopted by the European Parliament; there have been commemorations in many places, and I think that is important. I think it is important to remember and recognise that there was a genocide of about a million and a half people. And frankly, I have to say that I am deeply surprised that the SF finds a problem in raising that debate and taking it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210834	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no one else who wanted to make brief comments. And the next speaker is Mr. Søren Pind, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512210850	History concerns each of us. If we do not know the story, we risk making the same mistakes again. That is why I have been delighted to note the wise words of the Foreign Minister, which could be read on the Foreign Ministry's website on 26 January on the occasion of Auschwitz Day. The Foreign Minister said here: Auschwitzdagen is important both because there are still people who refuse the Holocaust to take place and because the mechanisms behind the persecution and extermination also exist today. We continue to face the tragic consequences of intolerance, xenophobia and totalitarianism. Humanity, tolerance and democracy are the best safeguards against acts that, in their worst form, lead to genocide. Quote out. Folk killings were what happened to the Jews during World War II. This has been established by historians, even though some still deny it. We use the concept of genocide about the crime that happened to the Jews, even if there was no UN then or any UN genocide convention. It was a deliberate attempt to eradicate an entire population. The Jewish lawyer Raphael Lemkin was the man who created the concept of genocide in 1943, and Lemkin directly based the expression on the abuse that had surpassed the Armenians. And today we are discussing what the pope has called the first genocide of the 20th century, the genocide of the Armenians. The Danish woman Maria Jacobsen was one of the eyewitnesses. In her diary she wrote: Many of the men have been killed. Women and young girls have been desecrated by soldiers. Many have been taken to Turkish and Kurdish homes. They had been told that they were going to Harput and, after weeks and months of suffering and danger, the men and boys who had been left were taken from them and put in prison here, which means they must be killed. The women are being held have a few days, and the Turkish men go and look out for the prettiest wives and girls whom they then bring home to their harem. The sick, who cannot walk, are taken out and taken to a cemetery where they are allowed to lie and die. I agree that history research must be left to historians and historians have spoken. The documentation is overwhelming. Finally, let research continue, but we can already, as enlightened people, conclude that there was genocide. There is no reason to deny that. The German President does not deny it, the German Federal Government does not deny it, and so let us not deny it in Denmark either. On the occasion of Auschwitz Day, the Foreign Minister has noted the genocide of the Jews, and the Foreign Minister has even justified this by the fact that there are still people who deny that the Holocaust took place. There are also people who deny that the Armenian genocide took place. The principals have long since died. One of the worst executioners was General Enver Pasha. Some years ago, in 1996, Enver Pasha was buried again while the then Turkish President and large parts of the then government were present. It must be up to Turkey to face up to its past and history, but it can never be up to us to conceal the crime which took place against the Armenians at the beginning of the 20th century and which has been witnessed in a rich way. In any case, I note that the European Parliament has already adopted a resolution on the Armenian genocide, among other things. with the votes of the Left, the Radical Left and the Social Democrats. And I agree with that resolution. That is the tradition of the European Parliament. In Denmark, the Folketing has no tradition of such decisions. We choose to stay away from historical statements and concentrate on practical matters. Let us therefore, as individuals and as parties, say what we think, but let us not let such views politicians in our Parliament. That will be the position of the Left. That is why, in the view of the Left, there was genocide. No, the government itself must find out how it will act in Denmark's foreign policy interest. And no, the Folketing is not going to vote on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211325	There is one with a brief comment. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211338	First of all, I would like to commend the Left and Mr. Søren Pind and the members of the Left in the European Parliament to recognise the Armenian genocide. But I must say that I am very surprised that the Left does not support the Enhedslisten's proposals. For the Enhedslisten's proposal states that we are calling on Turkey, on the occasion of the Armenian genocide, to guarantee the rights of minorities. That means that what the Left is concerned about, namely that we are officially recognising the genocide, is not what we are proposing on the part of the Enhedslisten. On the contrary, it can be said that the Left is voting in favour of a motion for a resolution which does not have the word genocide, even though the Left recognises it as genocide. It's gonna be a little weird. So why can the Left not, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide, call on Turkey to safeguard the rights of minorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211433	I don't know where sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has from voting for anything. We have not, in fact, indicated that, and we will not do so either. I have just indicated what the position of the Left is. The position of the Left is that there is genocide, but we do not believe that such a vote belongs in the Danish Parliament. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211450	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211454	So I just have to understand: does the Left think it is wrong to have a discussion in the Folketing today on the occasion of the Armenian genocide? For that is what we have, and it is in the light of this that the Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal for adoption which states that, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary, we are calling on Turkey to guarantee fundamental rights for minorities. So, I have to say that I am completely incomprehensible that the Left cannot back it unless the Left really thinks it is wrong to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide. And I don't suppose the Left does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211537	No, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen in every case did not hear what I said. I have made clear what the position of the Left is, both on the issue of the genocide. Nikolaj Villumsen wishes in the question, is appropriate and that it is not in Denmark's foreign policy interest either. So let's say what we mean, but let's not politicize it, because in my best opinion it does not serve the Armenians' cause.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211605	This made one more wish for a brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211614	Thank you. I've noticed that sir... Søren Pind in some questions refrains from saying that the Folketing has to express its opinion on international issues. I respect that, but I would like to ask: would it be okay for a foreign minister, no matter which party he or she came from, to speak out about genocide in a situation like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211636	Sir. Christian Juhl asks me something that I would have to deal with quite hypothetically, and I actually think I will refrain from doing so in principle. My basic approach to this has been made clear several times, and that is that foreign policy is being conducted by the King and in such a way that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is being implemented, and he must do so as it serves Denmark best in the individual situation. Then I can have some political views about it, and I do not always need to express them. What was important to me in this debate was that I do not think that we can just leave things to historians. I do not think we can try to support the denial of genocide, and it was important for me to make it clear that there is the Left, and that is what I could contribute to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211726	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211731	I understand that if Mr. Søren Pind one day became Secretary of State, so he would not refrain from expressing his opinion on the genocide in Armenia unless the King or, in this case, the Queen had helped him tell him that he should not. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211748	Now I don't know which country, sir. Christian Juhl imagines that I am the Foreign Minister in, but immediately I would like to say that the position of the Left is well known. It may well be that a minister cannot say the same thing as the Left Foreign Affairs rapporteur can. I will not reject that, but the matter is that Mr. Christian Juhl is at least now familiar with the position of the Left Party on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211810	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Jacob Lund, Social Democrats, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512211818	A hundred years ago, the Armenian people were living through terrible events. A large number of people perished in grim and violent circumstances, and the tragedy has made a clear impression in world history on the image of a historical human tragedy, of which there have unfortunately been too many. In 2015, it is then 100 years since the events took place, and therefore it is natural at this time to remember and reflect and send the most profound thoughts to the many people who were unhappyly victims of a tragedy, and not least their survivors. This gives rise to understanding and sympathy, which is why I should like to take this opportunity today to welcome the debate. This is an important debate. Firstly, we have the opportunity to contribute to a constructive and respectful debate on both the tragedy and respect for a minority. Because in this way there is an opportunity to show our understanding and our sympathy and to help raise the debate so that it gets its attention. Secondly, it is also an opportunity to have the limits of political interference refined. To start with, it is this government's clear wish that there should be a reconciliation between Armenia and Turkey. The Armenian people are living in difficult conditions today, and we would like to see relations between the Armenians and Turkey normalised. On the Danish side, Turkey has previously been recommended to continue to strengthen their legislation with a focus on preventing discrimination against minorities, among others. by prohibiting discrimination with regard to sexual orientation, gender, religion and ethnicity. However, I do not think that Armenia or the relationship between Armenia and Turkey will benefit if we interfere in the concept of a tragedy. This may even make me nervous, because interference by other countries can contribute to an escalation of conflict. Perhaps it will lead to other demands that are not immediately favourable to establishing a peaceful relationship. Instead, we should give attention to the debate, show our sympathy and understanding and ensure that the tragedy continues to be addressed and respected. This leads on to the second point, for it is this government's clear view that history should not be politics. It is our free research, our historians and our specialists in international law who are to map out how the images of events in history are to be defined and characterised. We, as politicians, cannot and must not interfere in this. That is why it is not the intention of this government today to recognise the events as genocide. It's up to historians to determine that definition. Instead, we must pay attention and we must show our sympathy and we must show our sympathy. For in the 100th anniversary we must reject the fact that the event has been forgotten; on the contrary, the 100th anniversary is an opportunity to give attention once again to the Armenian people. It is a tragic event that has taken place, not least for the survivors. The historical imprint left by the government in the history of the world 100 years ago cannot be changed. But hopefully the focus of the outside world, including the Danish one, can help Turkey and Armenia to accommodate each other in a respectful dialogue or together create a historical impression that points to a brighter future based on respect and mutual understanding. Against this background, I should like to read out a text which has been adopted by the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the forced deportations, massacres and other attacks on Armenians that took place in eastern Anatolia during the period 1915-23, the Folketing stresses the importance of respecting the rights of all national, ethnic and religious minorities in the region. Parliament expresses the hope that reconciliation and normalisation of relations between Armenia and Turkey can take place, calls on the governments of both countries to work to this end and notes that a continued improvement in Turkey's respect for its ethnic, religious and national minorities could contribute to this. • V 54).
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212313	Thank you, there is one for a brief remark. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. And then I give the floor to the questioner, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212326	Thank you. I couldn't help but notice that sir... Jacob Lund did not mention the word genocide in his speech or in the motion for a resolution which he read out. What I would like to hear is whether this is due to the fact that the Socialists do not believe that this was a genocide.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212349	I am not going to define here from the platform whether it is a genocide or not. I have said that a great many people have been killed and that some terrible tragedies have occurred in the region during this period. But I also think that I have explained in my speech that it is historians and people who understand the part that has to define whether it is genocide. This is not a political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212410	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212413	The absurdity of this discussion is that the historians broadly agree that there was genocide, but that there is a Turkish government and an Azerbaijani government which has officially decided that there was no genocide. This means that it is not, what can be said, the historians who are blocking that this can be called genocide; it is governments which have an official policy of denial that block the genocide from being called genocide. So again, why do the Socialists not call it genocide? Is it simply because there is pressure from the Turkish Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212453	So, I and my party have not been pressured by the Turkish Government in relation to what we have said. I think that it is very important that there should be a debate on this, that it should be addressed, and that we should be told, both from this point of view and elsewhere, that there has been a terrible incident in the area. But the definition of genocide is something that needs to be done elsewhere and we, as politicians, should not decide whether it is or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212523	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short comments right now. The next speaker is Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512212531	Yes, thank you, and thank you to Enhedslisten for having raised the discussion here. I think it was a good answer that the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave. The 100th anniversary has given rise to a great deal of publicity and a great deal of debate in the newspapers. I myself took part in a few public meetings on the events which cost 1.5 million Armenians their lives and in which no Turkish commanders were held to account. Personally, the mention of these events in a funny way was one of the first things I remember, and this is because my grandmother in Randers actually met Karen Jeppe, and she stayed at my grandmother's house in Randers. My grandmother, who told me what this was all about at the time, made a deep impression on my grandmother, and already at that time I thought it was an incredibly scary story that was told about what was a genocide. Personally, I have never been in doubt either, I have not ever disputed it, I have been quite sure that this is what could really be described as a genocide. From what I have read and heard and therefore also been told in a very personal way, I have extracted it and it has created my sense of what it was about. There have been a lot of historians doing this, and I have also read later in life the description of what was going on down there by professional historians. It is precisely in the case of free research that you form your own impression, and then you decide what you believe in or what you do not believe in. For me, as I said, there has never been any doubt. We read, and we hear, and then we decide individually what we trust in relation to history. However, the fact that a Parliament, as proposed by the Enhedslisten, should vote on what is the historical truth makes no sense. I think it is absurd that as laymen we should vote on what is the historical truth; I simply do not think we can do that. We are not a court, we are a parliament that legislates. We do not write historical books or depictions, and we do not exalt anything to be a historical We each choose in the Folketing what we will trust, and then we must decide in principle with ourselves. I was around the Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group today in connection with our big group meeting and looked each in the eye and asked: Do you think this is a genocide? And they did, yes. That's the answer. We did not vote on it, because I do not think we should vote on it, but I was around asking them and they had the same attitude as I did, that is to say it was, of course, a genocide. And there was a problem for Turkey with itself, and that is what this is all about. We want the Turks to be calm. This is also one of the reasons why we had a motion for a resolution earlier today that Turkey should not join the European Union, in other words on the basis of such a thing as this, namely one important matter that makes it impossible for Turkey to say what needs to be said, and that makes it difficult for us to be involved in Turkey being part of the European Union. There was little support for that proposal earlier today, even on the part of the Enhedslisten. So Turkey has a problem with itself. The principle of it, and I think that has been mentioned, for example. Also by Holger K. Nielsen earlier, it is as if Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen will not understand that this is the very essence of this, namely that we are not a court, we are not giving historical judgments, we are a parliament. I think that's what Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen over and over again just skating over and won't discuss. Once again, in this matter, we have chosen the yellow button because we think it is an absurd discussion that Parliament should decide. So we choose the yellow button, recognizing that we are not voting on this, just as we did not in the Danish People's Party group earlier this day. So yellow from us, and otherwise there is great sympathy for the large, broad proposal for adoption that lies, but we cannot get ourselves to vote on an historic event.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213103	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213107	Thank you. It's a brave new world we're in. The Danish People's Party believes that the Armenian genocide in the Folketing should not be discussed. I'm surprised. We have had a situation quite a few years ago when the Danish People's Party made a proposal for adoption in the Danish Parliament, which exactly contained the Armenian genocide. The proposal was tabled by among others: Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Now the Danish People's Party will not vote in favour of a proposal which merely mentions the word genocide, just as the Danish People's Party has refused to submit a proposal along with the Enhedslisten in recent weeks which called on Turkey to recognise the genocide. I would just like to hear: what is the reason for this 180-degree change in the Danish People's Party's policy, which now means that one does not dare to mention the word genocide in a proposal for adoption in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213216	I think it is a good idea to discuss it. In fact, I started by saying that, and I thanked the Enhedslisten for having the debate. It is very good to discuss it. The right place to discuss it would have been in a hearing, I think, in the National Hall, where there could have been historians who could have presented it here, and also Armenian historians. It would have been the right place. I was not familiar with the fact that the Danish People's Party has made a proposal on this in the past. But that is where we must change our minds. We can move a little bit, as opposed to what Enhedslisten can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213245	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213247	That's an honest admission. The Danish People's Party has changed policy in this area. I was glad to hear that Mr. Søren Espersen had been around all the members of the parliamentary group, because that also means that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard have today been asked whether they wanted to recognise the Armenian genocide and genocide and mention it in the adoption made by Enhedslisten. That is where the Danish People's Party has completely changed its policy, but I do not have any answers as to why this has happened. Why this follow-up to the Turkish policy of denial?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213326	First of all, I think it is a little silly, to say it as it is, to accuse us of being particularly loving towards Turkey. I do not think we have been doing this at any time in the discussions that have taken place on Turkey's accession to the European Union and on the whole of the Islamisation that is taking place in Turkey. Turkey is not a country that we include with great love. Yes, I was asking around and everyone in our group said that it was absolutely right that this was a genocide. That's exactly what I said. I believe that this is a genocide, but we will not vote on it. And, yes, we have changed our mind on that point. I'm willing to admit that. I think it is worthwhile that politicians can change their minds and perhaps realise that there has been a development, including in the recognition that they have, and I agree with that. So, yes, we've changed our mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213423	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker in the rapporteur's series is Mrs Lone Loklindt, Radical Left. It was Mrs Lone Loklindt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213447	Thank you. While in Denmark this year we can celebrate the hundredth anniversary of women's voting rights, the Armenians and many others commemorate the centuries of the tragic events in which a very large number of Armenians perished in the most cruel circumstances. Of course, we should not conceal the massacre that took place. It is not a question of allowing ourselves to be dictated by the Turkish Government, but nor should we in the Danish Parliament conduct foreign policy or define the concepts of international law that Denmark needs to use. Turkey still needs to improve its attitude and treatment of ethnic and religious and national minorities. That is why we in Denmark must, of course, support the normalisation of relations and reconciliation between Turkey and Armenia. There is a need for respect for the rights of minorities, and that is why the Radical Left also supports the proposal for adoption tabled by the Social Democrats, the SF, the Conservative and Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213610	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213615	Thank you. As I understood the radical rapporteur, the opposition to calling the Armenian genocide a genocide is due to the fact that the Folketing is not required to take a position on the law of international law on that issue. I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur to confirm that the Turkish Government is blocking the establishment of international law. In other words, decisions cannot be taken here in the United Nations because there is active lobbying and action by the Turkish Government because there is an active denial on the part of the Turkish Government. And when the Foreign Minister says that there was no deliberate desire to wipe out the Armenians in Turkey, it is precisely the Turkish claim that the Armenians, including women and children and the hundreds of thousands who were murdered, were political opponents of the regime, among others. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Is that really the position of the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213729	Well, I do not think it is our business here today as politicians that we should be historical judges of what has happened. There is no doubt that massacres have taken place which no one can but mourn and reject, but it is not up to us as parliamentary politicians to be judges, especially when there is a convention with specific legal and international content within the UN system. It is not up to us to be historical judges.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213813	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213816	What is very strange in this debate is that there is a situation in which historians widely acknowledge that there was genocide, but Denmark has a close ally called Turkey, who refuses it was a genocide. Is it really the case that Turkey can make us stop calling it genocide just because it has an official policy to deny it? I would say that I am very puzzled if that really is the view of the Radicals on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213846	I think I said very clearly that we should by no means be dictated by a Turkish government, but it is not up to us here to be historical judges either. The tragic events that took place in Turkey all distance themselves from it, but we must not pass judgment here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213917	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512213933	I think that the discussion here on the one hand is interesting, but I also think that it is a little strange on the other. No one questions the atrocities that took place 100 years ago. I would like to call the events a genocide without being an expert in history. There is also broad agreement among historians on this point, not all historians. There is such a little discussion about how to define it. But I would describe it as a genocide, so no one should doubt it. But I would like to make some fundamental points about the use of historical events in defining today's policy, because I think it should actually be about that too. Because it is not unknown that historical events are being brought forward in political discussions either in parliaments or in governments to legitimize quite other things. The latest example here in Denmark was when Anders Fogh Rasmussen used the cooperation policy during the occupation or the showdown with it and the criticism of it to legitimize his Iraq war. We have international experience with the Serbs who used the Battle of the Black Forest to deny recognition of Kosovo. It is so important in the history of the Serbs that they would not recognise Kosovo for that reason. The settlers in the West Bank are using the Bible and the historical events there to legitimize that they have a historical right to the earth on the West Bank. Mr Putin believes he has a historical right to Crimea, and he believes that he corrects a historical injustice through what he does in Crimea. Greece goes back to Alexander the Great to justify that Macedonia cannot join NATO under the name of Macedonia. In other words, there are numerous examples of how politicians use historical events to legitimise today's policy, and most recently today, when Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen uses the Armenian genocide to continue the Turkish bashing, which has become the main part of Enhedslisten's foreign policy. It has much more to do with Turkey than it has to do with the Armenians. That's what's in there, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen's business. I think it is a rather unsightly debate that comes out of it. I think there were some very good contributions from Mr. Søren Pind and Mr. Søren Pind. Søren Espersen. I fully agree with them. It was but it is not something we have to make decisions about, because where does the limit go if we are going to make historical decisions? I tried to ask Enhedslisten before, but I couldn't get an answer to it. In fact, I think it is an important fundamental discussion if we are going to make historical decisions here in the Folketing. What about the Stockholm bloodbath? Why don't we deal with that? That is an important part of the history of Denmark. What about the national Liberals' responsibility for the war in 1864? Should we not have some sort of decision on this? King Hans, when he entered Ditmarsken, shouldn't we have a decision on that? There are so many things: Stalin's crimes, Gulag etc. That is my question to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. It will be absurd if we are going to do so. It's pointless, we can't. Then I know that the Armenian diaspora is very active about the recognition of the event in 1915 as a genocide, and I have full respect for that. That is why it has come on the political agenda in the United States and in France and elsewhere. That is absolutely right, but that does not mean that we must also do it here in Denmark. I do not think so, precisely because we need to discuss what other events we should then deal with. In fact, I would ask Enhedslisten also to deal with the rather more fundamental discussion about including history in contemporary politics, about the timely fact that we in the Danish Parliament are going to have to deal with and comment on historical events and where the limits of that are going. But to repeat it, I would like to describe the events of a hundred years ago as genocide.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214407	There is one, in fact two, short remarks now. First, it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214416	Thank you. First, therefore, to correct: the Enhedslisten has nothing against Turkey, but we have something against the Turkish Government's repression of minorities. That's why we, among other things. I do not understand why the SF cannot support this proposal for adoption today and which, among other things, I do not understand. states that Turkey must ensure respect for its minorities on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide. I simply cannot understand what can cause the SF to reject that proposal. In other words, it is made up of two things: (1) remembering the Armenian genocide, and (2) call for the safeguarding of minority rights. What is it that the SF has against the two parts of the proposal for adoption put forward by Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214457	Isolatedly speaking, nothing, but what I'm trying to explain to you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, whom he likes to find difficult to understand or whom he will not understand, is that there are some fundamental aspects to this. There are, in fact, many places in Europe where we would be able to deal with whether a country treats its minorities properly. I mentioned, for example. just short Greece. I know, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has a direct line with the new Greek government. He could, for example. call down to them and ask about their relationship with the Macedonian minority in Greece, which is not being recognised. I think that could be just as relevant in itself. In other words, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has chosen Turkey as such, the main villain of all this. There are many bad things in Turkey, they go back and there is reason to criticise in many, many different ways. But all that part of Europe, the whole of the Balkans, is full of minority problems, is full of historical bloodshed, is full of events that draw lines up to today. That is why it is, in fact, a problem, I think, if you take out just one part and then start to discuss it in isolation and, like it, blame us for not voting in favour of it, since we now have the principle of this, that it is not something that the Folketing has to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214617	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214621	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen is right that there are many problems in Europe. Now we have one of those that we are discussing in the Folketing today. I do not think it is too much to ask the SF to deal with the problem that we have the repression of minorities in today's Turkey, let alone the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide. I would very much like to hear from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen: If the Greek Government or the Russian Government or the Serbian Government are coming tomorrow to say that they are now denying various abuses that have taken place in their history, should Denmark also stop describing these abuses as the crimes they are now, or is it only when it comes to Turkey that we should not call genocide a genocide?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214707	Not at all. I do have a completely uniform approach to these issues. I do not believe that the Danish Government has ever agreed to deal with the Battle of the Black Forest, nor have I been aware of the role of Alexander the Great in and around Macedonia, nor of the historic right of settlers to the West Bank, where they also use history. Because I think we need to discuss today's problems on the basis of today's challenges and opportunities for solutions. In many conflicts it will be extremely difficult to find solutions when some people will use history to legitimise some modern-day actions. And I don't like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214804	The next brief remark is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214809	I thank you very much, both when I get the floor without having to have it and when I get it. History and politics seem to me to be an interesting theme, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is going up, but I am not so sure that he is right that one can just say that we have to put an end to all this debate on history. In other words, if some people wrongly use history to say that we have the right to be in the West Bank, then we must help those people to say that they have no right to do so historically. And then we must assess it soberly and say that it is completely wrong, and you have no right to be there, you are possessors. Then we always say, when we have to discuss that problem, in order to exemplify it, what, for example, is going to happen. happened in 1967. Then the question is whether we can discuss the story we ourselves are part of or whether it is also the story we cannot use for anything. I certainly believe that I could not act politically if I did not use the story to understand the world. You can't understand the world without using history. Then you would be a quite apolitical person who would go completely wrong in the city every second time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512214916	I very much agree with that, and I am also glad that that comment comes because it was not my intention to say that we should be ahistoric, of course not. Of course you have to understand the story in order to understand the present too, I completely agree with that, and that is why I think it is okay enough that we are discussing these things in some political contexts too. What I am arresting is when you use history for your own political goals, to legitimise his own political goals, as Anders Fogh Rasmussen did when he used the fight with the cooperation policy to legitimise his Iraq war, or when the Serbs use the Battle of the Solsortes Plain. That is where I think things are going wrong and, as far as I can see, what Enhedslisten is doing here is using the Armenian genocide to continue their very harsh criticism of Turkey. That's what it's all about here, and that's the only thing that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is basically talking about. This is not the Armenian genocide, and the proposal for adoption is not so much about it either. It is really about some very different things. So it is also an example of how historical events are being used politically in today's context in a not very appropriate way in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215031	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215035	There is only one thing to do about the Iraq war, namely to say that we have a specific historical experience with Iraq, which means that in such a situation we should definitely recommend not to go to war, that is, what had happened, that Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen wanted to go to war. In this way, of course, we also use history to argue against it. I think I agree with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen in that those of us who opposed the war were right in that it was our view of history that was right. But for example... I think it is a positive development that leaders at some point in the history of some countries apologise to oppressed people, to minorities who have suffered harm, in other words Germany and elsewhere, or rather more patheticly acknowledge that genocide has taken place in their country. I believe that it would not hurt, and I disagree with those who say that it would harm Turkey to recognise that there was a genocide. On the contrary, it would give Turkey a quite good opportunity to get on good terms with Armenia and to establish good neighbourly relations. It is quite crazy not to take advantage of that opportunity, and there I think it is good to encourage Turkey to think a little more pragmatic rather than block an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215151	Well, I agree with the latter. I think that Turkey should recognise this as a genocide and apologise to it. I fully agree with that and also that it can have a positive effect. That is not what the question is, but it is then a choice they make, and I think they should do so. But the question is whether we on the part of the Danish Parliament should start to get involved in all sorts of historical events. That's where I think the chain is jumping off. I have tried several times to challenge the Enhedslisten on where the limit goes for it. What are we going to discuss next? How far back do we go? That is, of course, what I think is important to discuss. So, as I said, of course, we should not use the ahistoric, of course we should use history, but I just think that if we use history to legitimise present-day actions or to define today's policy, without taking into account what is possible on the basis of which we can resolve different conflicts, that could be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215257	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215307	Thank you. In connection with World War I and the fall of the Ottoman Empire, 100 years ago, the Turkish state began a systematic persecution of Armenians, resulting in up to 1.5 million Armenians being expelled and killed. It was the Turkish state that was behind it and it denies until today that there was genocide. So far, parliaments in 25 countries, including Russia, Canada and Sweden, have adopted resolutions condemning genocide, but we have not done so in Denmark. That is not what we are going to do today, even if one could believe it when one listens to the discussion that has taken place in the Chamber. It is not a question of adopting a resolution condemning the genocide that has taken place. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement, but I have to say that the three arguments put forward by the Foreign Minister for not being able to talk about genocide here were extremely thin. The first argument was that history should not be politicised; there must not be politics in history. I guess the biggest political struggles have always taken place around history writing. That is why I have to say that, with regard to the interpretation of what happened 100 years ago in relations between Turkey and the Armenians, it is certainly not possible to give much room for interpretation. Up to 1.5 million people were displaced and killed. I do not think it is possible to make room for interpretation of this. So I don't think that argument holds up. The second argument is that, according to the United Nations, genocide is defined as a series of defined acts and that it must have been done for the purpose of annihilation. If you kill 1.5 million people, what exactly is the intention? What analyses do we need to establish that when one kills 1.5 million people, it is with a view to extinction? That's one thing. The second point is that if genocide is to be reduced to an intellectual discussion about conceptualisation, then I think we are going to be poor. The third argument is that the Danish Government wants reconciliation, and that is why we must refrain from interfering in this. That argument corresponds, if I may say it a little harshly, to the fact that when the French Le Pen says that the Holocaust was merely a trifle in the Second World War, we must interpret it as an expression of the desire for reconciliation. It just doesn't hold up either. We in the Liberal Alliance think it is a disgrace that Turkey has not recognised and taken responsibility for this genocide. Two proposals for adoption have been tabled today. There are none of the proposals which speak of the Danish Government being imposed on something which means that we in Denmark recognise that there was genocide. The first proposal for adoption, which includes: The government supports, does not even mention the word genocide, and the second proposal for adoption tabled by the Enhedslisten says quite briefly that, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide, the Folketing calls on Turkey to ensure respect for its ethnic, religious and national minorities. It is really for me to see an incredibly peaceful proposal for adoption. So, on the part of the Liberal Alliance, we believe that this is a lack of political courage and actually, frankly, cowardice, when we cannot say directly here in Parliament that it was a genocide; that it was a deliberate desire to wipe out an entire people; that Turkey was responsible for it; and that Turkey should and should assume that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215726	There is one more brief comment. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215730	After all, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has yet to say what the Liberal Alliance will do. I look forward to hearing from the Liberal Alliance whether they will support the Enhedslisten's proposal, which is indeed very quiet and quiet. As the rapporteur knows, the reason why we are using this wording, but not the previous wording that I sent to the rapporteurs some time ago, when the proposal was that the Folketing should require the government to call on Turkey to recognise the Armenian genocide, is that no parties reported back in favour. In the meantime, I saw that the European Parliament had adopted a resolution which was identical to what we are proposing on the part of the Enhedslisten today, and I thought that, since they had broadly voted in favour of it by the parties of the Folketing in the European Parliament, it would be logical for them to vote in favour of it here in the Folketing. So I would say that I look forward to hearing what the Liberal Alliance is doing, and I would therefore call for the Liberal Alliance to vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal, since it is as peaceful and also quite correct as I can hear from the rapporteur that it has been confirmed in its speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215842	I can then welcome the rapporteur's view that, if the miracle were to happen, this proposal for adoption would be put to the vote, then the Liberal Alliance will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215851	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215854	I would just like to express my thanks and thanks for this. It is a good thing that we are then two parties in the Folketing which, if we get the chance, will vote in favour of a proposal for adoption which, on the occasion of the genocide on the Armenians, calls on Turkey to safeguard the rights of minorities. I think that is positive and we should hope that we will be more parties to do so along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215914	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the last rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Lars Barfoed, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512215930	Thank you. We need to learn from history. We must learn both from victories and from defeats, we must learn from good events and good times, and we must learn from tragedies and sad times. The fate of the Armenians in 1915 and the years thereafter up to and including 1922 is a tragedy and a very sad time in Europe's history. There is reason to remember the thousands of Armenians who were killed in those years and the thousands who were driven out and suffered a heavy fate in exile. Every time such a thing has happened, we say that it must never happen again. But Europe became a few decades later the stage for the persecution of European Jews, and also in our time we are seeing people who are being killed by thousands, while others are running away from the atrocities to which they are being subjected. I just need to mention the situation in Syria right now as a sad example of that. After World War II, we got the United Nations and we got the European Union as it is now called. We need international rules of the game, we need international agreements on human rights, and we also need countries to work closely together on the basis of democratic rules of the game in order to enforce the rule of law. We must, in close cooperation, stick to the international legal principles that we agree to. Unfortunately, there is not enough international decision-making power and ability to intervene in all cases where people are subjected to atrocities. After all, the international community did not prevent the killing and atrocities that took place in relation to the Armenians from 1915 to 1922. It was shameful in many ways, but we are still not away in the situation that we can guarantee against something like this happening again, and I think that is very much what we should think about on an occasion like this and in a debate like this: how can we move the world to where we could say that it will never happen again? That is why the 100th anniversary of the atrocities against the Armenians must be used both to commemorate, but also to remind us to strengthen the power of action of the international community in order to prevent such atrocities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220319	Two too brief remarks have been made. The first is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220323	Thank you. I can hear that the Conservative rapporteur fails to use the concept of genocide. So I just want to know if it is the position of the Conservatives that the Armenian genocide was not a genocide.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220343	The question doesn't make any sense. It cannot be said that genocide is not genocide. In my speech, however, I have used the words that I have chosen to use in relation to the atrocities that took place from 1915 and in the years to come, against the Armenians. I believe that these are words that cover the atrocities that took place. There were people who were killed. There were people who were driven into exile. There were some who committed the atrocities which, unfortunately, were never held accountable for it. I guess that's it. What I then think is important, and that is what I used my speech to say, is that we must both remember, but we must also remind each other that, despite the many years that have passed since, we have not reached the point where we can say that we now have an international society and an international legal order with a force to prevent something like this happening again, because something similar is happening time and again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220448	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220450	Thank you. I can easily hear that the Conservative rapporteur will not use the word genocide, but I just miss hearing why the Conservatives will not call the Armenian genocide a genocide. When the rapporteur deliberately chooses not to use the word, one should have an explanation as to why the word should not be used precisely in this case, not least because it is a widespread term which, for example, the European Parliament and Sweden, Germany and Austria have decided to use. So why would the Conservatives not call it genocide?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220530	I don't know why it's like that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen believes to be in a situation and in a position where he can decide which words to use and what concepts to use. I have chosen to use the words and concepts that I have now chosen to use, and that is it. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen can use those words, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen chooses to use. I think that what we agree on, and that is probably the most important thing, is that there was killing, atrocities took place, people were sent into exile. That shouldn't have happened. Those who did this should have been held responsible for it. We must do what we can, and I think that is the important thing for this not to happen again. But we haven't gotten there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220614	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220616	I did not hear my colleague say anything about what words Mr. Barfoed needed it. He asked why a specific word was not used, namely genocide. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Lars Barfoed's opinion that a number of European countries and the European Parliament are saying that they believe that genocide has taken place, and that is to say, against the Minister's interpretation of whether or not there has been genocide. You clearly believe that there has been genocide. What does Mr. Lars Barfoed said that they officially speak such things from their parliaments?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220659	Well, they're gonna have to pronounce what they want. We have made a proposal for adoption here, in other words some of us, which is the proposal that I and my party can endorse. Others have made other opinions and decisions in other parliaments, and they are welcome to do so. I have no comment to make on that. I think that this is a sensible proposal for the adoption by the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220735	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220738	Now there is, of course, a crucial difference between saying, as Mr. Lars Barfoed does, or whether one recognizes that this is a deliberate attempt to purge an ethnic group. That is why there is a difference between what words you use, whether or not you use the term genocide. I'd like to ask Mr. Lars Barfoed, if he does not think that it would be right for Turkey to help them on their way to apologize to the Armenians, to bring about a reconciliation instead of foolishly saying: we have not committed any genocide, we have made no mistake. I believe that a process of reconciliation is, of course, about the great and strong party doing something. Was it not an idea that Denmark also helped the large and strong country a little along the way in the process so that there could be a better neighbourhood and a more peaceful part of the world down there?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220827	That is precisely what is being expressed in the proposal for adoption, where we express the hope that there will be reconciliation and normalisation of relations between Armenia and Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220842	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. I see that the Foreign Minister does not wish to speak, nor have I heard any questions to the Foreign Minister in this. Sorry, I see now that the rapporteur for the proposers wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512220912	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the support from the Liberal Alliance for the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption. It is not every day that the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslist vote the same in the Assembly, but if we get the chance on Thursday, we will do so. I think this is positive because there should be broad support for the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten. I have to say that when you listen to the debate today, creativity has been immense. Frankly, I think it has to be said that creativity has reached completely new heights. At least I haven't seen anything like it before. But the result is really the same. Whether you vote in favour of the proposal for which a majority is in favour, which makes extremely good efforts not to mention the word genocide, or whether you vote blankly in order not to take part in the motion for a resolution which mentions the word genocide, then the reality is the same. It is the Turkish policy of denial against the Armenian genocide that is victorious. But that also means, in fact, that it is not a question of leaving it here to historians; it is a question of leaving the Armenian genocide to lose to an official Turkish state policy which denies the genocide. There are several parties who say that they would like to mention the genocide, but which, strangely enough, do not dare to do so by commemorating the genocide by saying in a resolution that, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide, which is what is in the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption, Turkey is calling for respect for its minorities. I have to say that I am very puzzled, and I think that those parties should do away with themselves, whether recognising genocide should not also mean commemorating genocide. I think most Danes would recognize that it should. It should also be possible for Denmark to follow the trail of Sweden, Austria, Germany and the European Parliament, which remembers the Armenian genocide. After all, it is important to remember, not least in order to prevent the crimes of the past from repeating themselves. And, as many have said, there is ample reason to be concerned that genocide can happen again. That is why precisely the memory and recognition are also so important. As Mrs Mette Bock has said, this is precisely not a proposal for official recognition in what Enhedslisten puts forward, although many rapporteurs are trying to make it appear as such. There are proposals to commemorate, but unfortunately, one can say, a ban on words arises which then also hits the memorial service. It is not a ban on pictures but a ban on words to mention the word genocide. One can hear from the Left that it is politicizing to mention the word genocide. It will damage Denmark's foreign policy interests, says the Left. But frankly, it is real talk, but basically it just means putting relations with Turkey over the memory of the Armenian genocide. And frankly, I find that embarrassing. SF's sir. Holger K. Nielsen asks polemically about what other historical events we should also discuss in the Folketing, which we should also draw conclusions about in the Folketing. And again, I would just like to say that what we are proposing here is to be remembered, but I would ask the SF back: what other genocide should we stop mentioning if the governments of their countries do not like it? Should we stop mentioning the Holocaust, should we stop mentioning the genocide in Rwanda if the governments of their countries do not want it? I think that is a real question, because it is the omission of the word genocide that divides the waters of the Folketing today. Danish People's Party turns 180 degrees. In the past, proposals have been made for exactly the recognition of the Armenian genocide in this parliament. Now we are opposed to recognition of the Armenian genocide. It is said that there has been a new development; one needs to tell why. I do not know whether this is due to a new love for the Turkish Government, but I think it is a pity that the Danish People's Party is changing its attitude in this way 180 degrees. What is strange is that today we must not call genocide a genocide. Frankly, I think we should be brave enough to do that in Denmark and in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512221429	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. I'd better take a second look to see if anyone else is in round two. That does not seem to be the case. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 19 May 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512221453	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, May 13, 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
