ParlaMint-DK_20150120130001	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Pia Adelsteen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 54 (Proposal for a resolution to wind up negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130029	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130053	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. I'll wait a minute. Has everyone voted as they wish? I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 13 (DF), against 92 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130202	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Henrik Høegh as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130233	This proposal can be very sympathetic. For a reasonably well upholstered municipality with a well upholstered utility company, it is not necessarily a problem to help needy families who cannot pay for a sewer connection. We are talking about DKr 70,000 to 80 000, and we expect that the municipalities I am talking about here are 1, 1.5 or perhaps 2%. by the citizens. This can easily be done, including with regard to the economy of the utility company. However, if we go out to some municipalities, which are not in the situation of being well upholstered, then we are talking about that with the criteria, namely that the supply company must play a financial institution for economically distressed citizens, it is somewhere between 15 and 20 per cent. of the citizens who cannot provide the sums to dig in the way. Here KL directly states that it is an economic problem for a number of utilities that this bill forces them to play a financial institution and give the necessary credit to these citizens, who start with a three-year delay in payment and then can start to pay. I'm from Lolland City. We're gonna solve these problems, we're not gonna put any citizens in jail because they can't get this money. We have an agreement with a larger financial institution that provides loans on ordinary private loan terms to a great many of them. For the rest, either depositing the property or otherwise granting a grace period is found. That is why the Left has tabled an amendment which says that we should do this on a voluntary basis for the individual municipalities, because there is so much difference between what it means financially for a utility company to be forced to be a financial institution. That is why I appeal to the House to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Left and to do so on a voluntary basis for each municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130439	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130449	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V and LA) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 33 (V and LA), against 76 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130530	Does anyone wish to speak? This is not the case. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130549	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1. 1, acceded to by the Committee. It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130606	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Christian Juhl as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130628	There's been a slip for the Minister of Labour, so we need to talk about this. In the present law, if you have been an employee for 12 years and are terminated, you will receive one month's salary. On the other hand, if you have been employed for 15 years, you get 2 months' pay, and if you have been employed for 18 years, you get 3 months' pay. Now the European Union seems to have interfered, and then the minister has messed around in the pot and has wasted something on the floor that we need to dry up. And then he says that after 17 years we can settle for three months' compensation. This means that those who have been employed for 15 years will be cheated for 1 month. That's a bad thing, sir. Minister of Labour. We have to change that. And that is why we have tabled this amendment, and we assume, as a matter of course, that it is an oversight that you have not received those two months, so I expect that there is a good majority in favour of our amendments. That is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130741	I have to say to the rapporteur that we are not using the duform in the Folketing, and I think it is the Minister for Employment to whom the request was addressed. Do more people want to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130805	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF). And a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 18 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 90 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF). And we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 18 (SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I therefore propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120130920	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We have not concluded the negotiations. We will continue the agenda, and a loud speech will be given to other rooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120131014	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120131046	The debate is open. Sir. Kim Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120131108	The legislative proposal that we are now considering has as its main objective the strengthening of efforts to combat piracy and, moreover, the proposal envisages simplifying certain rules in the patent law. We in the Left are in favour of those intentions. We would like to help strengthen action against piracy, and that is what is being proposed. For us, it is crucial that we legally give companies and private individuals better opportunities to protect their intellectual property rights. Better protection creates the basis for more innovation and further development, and that benefits the whole of society, and it also ensures that the people who develop the products and right have the rights will also have a better chance of securing the value of them. Who does not benefit from creative people and businesses developing, designing and creating art, images, literature, inventions and designs? And how many Danish companies and jobs are based on just a good idea or, for that matter, a crazy idea, which was later written on a piece of paper, further developed and made into a product? By protecting the good ideas in the best possible way, we become richer as a society, and we honour the companies and people who have put money, time and effort into pursuing a dream. That's fair. A strengthened response to piracy is not only a good business but also a strengthening of consumer protection. Better protection of intellectual property also reduces the risk of the spread of products which, due to preparation, do not meet various statutory product requirements. We are also in favour of the establishment of the separate enforcement unit of the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office, which is part of the Minister of Industry's bill. Such a unit will make the fight against piracy more coherent, more competent and effective, and we are also positive about counselling in specific cases. Contrary to the general guidance the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office can provide today, a concrete advice provides consumers and businesses with a better starting point for possible prosecution or subsequent private advice. At the same time, it is to be expected that small and medium-sized enterprises in particular will benefit more easily from enforcing and prosecuting their rights. We have also noted that, as is and must be possible, there are, of course, some critical consultation responses, some that consider the written guidance of the Board to be liable to distort competition. These views must, of course, be taken seriously, and we must monitor how they develop and whether they distort competition. However, it has been made clear in the draft law that the guidance given by the board is precisely that and we believe that the guidance given by the board can mean that more cases will be brought before the courts simply because many small and medium-sized enterprises with the bill without the high financial costs can be sure whether or not they are really infringing their intellectual property rights. They also have the best possible starting point for moving forward with their case, and this will ultimately benefit the private advisers as well. So both private advisers and small and medium-sized enterprises are going to win on the bill, as far as we can see, and the losers are the ones who are trying to pirate. And we think that is quite good. Then there is some administrative and financial relief for patent holders, with a simplification of the rules of the patent law as a result. That is also positive. We are also pleased that the draft law has taken the initiative to reduce the administrative trouble for the mortgage holders, by the fact that the Patent and Trademarks Board itself now obtains descriptions and drawings directly from the European Patent Office. Finally, it should be mentioned that it is natural to simplify and reduce fees for patent law when these can be produced and published electronically in the future. This is all extremely sensible and positive. And we look forward to being able to support the proposal after a positive reading by the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120131606	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Sina as the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120131621	Piracy of branded goods and design is a major consumer policy problem. This not only diminishes confidence in the individual company's products, but also goes beyond the knowledge of products that we as consumers think we have, for example. the origin and the origin of the goods. Piracy is also pounding unsolidarian. That is why the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is very keen to restrict piracy and, with this proposal, we are very much in favour of it. For neither consumers nor companies are served by the fact that copy goods are on the market. The government's fight against piracy is already well under way. With our 2013 growth plan, we have set out the direction in which the creative professions can maintain and develop their position. It was also in the growth plan that we presented the idea of creating a special unit focusing on intangible rights and piracy, so when we discuss the conditions for the creative professions in the future, the fight against counterfeit goods and piracy plays a crucial role. This bill introduces a new enforcement unit as part of the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office. The unit shall act as a contact point for consumers as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises. This extends the possibility of obtaining specific guidance on the rights of consumers or businesses. In the past, where general guidance on the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office has had to be provided, the newly created entity can therefore provide help in specific cases, and the hope is that it can provide consumers and companies with the necessary knowledge to pursue the matter further afterwards. At the same time, the unit can help the police solve and fight piracy. This bill also contains other elements, and it simplifies the procedure for obtaining a European patent, which means that the patent publication itself will become electronic. In this way, we will remove the fee that previously depended on the number of pages of the patent. All in all, therefore, the draft law is a contribution to improving conditions for both consumers and companies in this country, and one can only be happy about that. That is why the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120131832	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120131839	As other rapporteurs before me have said, this is, of course, a legislative proposal which is quite sensible in its entirety, given that, on the one hand, we must make it easier for companies to find out about patent systems and, on the other hand, we must ensure that the ban on piracy is enforced wherever it is necessary. Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular face major challenges, since they themselves do not have people who have these high-level expertises. The special enforcement agency is also involved in this bill to ensure that the tasks of the Patent and Trademarks Board are carried out in the context of the cooperation which they have subsequently or have had prior to this with the police, prosecutor and others. So we have some good tools to handle the piracy, which unfortunately can take place in Denmark via the import of illegal goods, but indeed also on the large Danish export markets and the places where Danish production companies generally take place. So we in the Danish People's Party think it makes sense that the government has taken this element into account in their growth plan, Denmark in work. We do not have to say yes to all the growth initiatives that come from the government... some are certainly better than others... but that should not prevent us from saying that this proposal is one of the sensible and good elements and we support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132012	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132021	Thank you, President. Before I draw attention to the matter itself, I would like to sign up to the Danish People's Party to praise the government: continue the good work! Piracy is a growing problem globally. Companies, designers, artists and many more experience that ideas and works that may have taken years to develop are copied and exploited by others. This is unreasonable for the owners, and it is bad for our societies that need our companies to develop new solutions. And then it can be said that at a time when we are also talking a lot about innovation power and about strengthening the climate of innovation, this is not something that is conducive to such a climate. With this bill, we are creating a genuine enforcement unit to help consumers and businesses in cases of piracy. Both consumers and companies find that it may seem incalculable to react to cases where piracy may be involved. We do not know where to turn for help and guidance; we are changing that now. If not, for example. small businesses react to piracy, it can ultimately cost profits and jobs. That is why we want to make it easy for consumers and businesses to get advice and guidance in cases of piracy. Denmark is a country with many patents, many skilled designers and many small and medium-sized enterprises that make a living from being competitive on knowledge. We must praise ourselves for this, but we must not rest on our laurels. We must constantly develop the conditions that these people and businesses have. That is why the government has now put forward this proposal as part of our fight against piracy. The Radical Left can, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132221	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132228	Thank you. It is, of course, a follow-up to Denmark's work and growth plan for creative industries and design, which is an excellent growth plan, and now we have reached the establishment of the enforcement unit through law. There are other rapporteurs who have put forward the good arguments, so I have no intention of repeating them. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132257	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132305	Thank you. The main content of this bill, as several have mentioned, is that of an enforcement agency in the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office, which does not, however, have the power to enforce anything, but to make an assessment against a fee of DKK 1,500. The assessment that can be made is not binding and is made, what should be said, also without responsibility in relation to a further course of action. I really think it is more accurate to say that this is more a form of legal aid, for example. companies that believe that they could have been subject to piracy or counterfeiting, and that is the core of the legislative proposal and what it is all about in some way. We could discuss whether companies could not, in some sense, pay for such legal advice from a lawyer themselves; now we find some money within what is the Patent and Trademarks Board's budget in advance, and that is okay with us to that extent. I would just like to mention that it is more important for us that Parliament gives priority to legal aid to some of the citizens who do not have so many opportunities for it themselves, for example. Some of the socially vulnerable, for whom we have discussed legal aid in the past, but also to consumers, are currently discussing a great deal about consumer redress. The bottom line is that we think this bill can get our vote, but this is probably not the big upheaval.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132442	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132454	With this bill, L 92, the government wants to establish a separate unit in the Patent and Trademarks Office, where consumers, companies and authorities can receive information and guidance on the enforcement of illegal copying. I would like to start by saying that it is a good thing that the government is focusing on strengthening efforts to combat illegal copying... much praise to the government for it. However, as part of the consultation answers also state, we are a little incomprehensible about the need to legislate in order to strengthen this effort. There have also recently been a number of examples in the media, including: The stock exchange has run a series of articles showing that public institutions are entering and offering goods and services in direct competition with private operators. As part of the consultation answers point out, it could well be understood that this is also what is happening here. When this special enforcement unit is set up within the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office, which is to advise companies on cases of possible illegal copying, I would say that it is the case that such advice is already being offered on the private market today, among other things. from lawyers and patent agencies. That is why we are sceptical about the draft law as it is drafted. We think that the intention is good, but since we cannot help the public institutions coming into direct and unfair competition with private providers, we cannot support the legislative proposal as it stands, but it may of course be that we can be convinced that this is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132658	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120132706	After all, we must live on the opportunities for innovation for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the innovation, for the muscle power of creating new products with which to enter the market. And such innovation also requires there to be protection of the rights that lie behind the whole process of innovation, creating new things. And that process then results in a product that one must of course have the opportunity to protect in one way or another. And there I think that the government's proposal here to establish a separate unit in the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office is an excellent idea. This means that there will be a contact point, that there will be an opportunity, as well as following this up and also implementing some of the ideas we have about protecting intellectual property rights. So far, so good. It is positive, and what we must live on in the future is also that we protect our rights, that we protect our patents. And the way we get progress and growth in Danish society is, of course, that there is also room for our SMEs to be protected when they develop new things. So we are in favour of everything we can do to protect SMEs. On the other hand, we are not so positive about allowing a public undertaking here to confer powers on this enforcement agency, which is then held, on written statements. In principle, we are opposed to public undertakings being involved in areas where private companies are today. There are, of course, private companies who provide the advice that makes the opinions and that works quite well. So the fact that we are now allowing the enforcement unit to go in and do exactly the same thing that some private advisors are doing is the wrong way to go. One might say that it is a tiny thing, but there are players out there who do those things in advance, and there I think that the state and society and the public could have a thousand other things that they could deal with, rather than going into an area where some people are already doing something that they are doing quite brilliantly. So we on the conservative side are a bit ambivalent on the proposal. We think that the idea, the concept, the structure is really good and that the intention is really good, and we would like to congratulate the minister for this very well thought out, but the whole implementation of it, in terms of allowing public companies to go in and take over private companies' tasks, is problematic in a situation where we must also ensure that the consultants are given the opportunity to run their business. It may well be that you build a structure here that protects rights, but at the same time you take the bread out of the mouth of some private advisors who, of course, must also have something to live on. So this is one of the things that we would like to pursue during the committee procedure, and we hope that the government will look at how it might be possible to make this happen. In general, however, we are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120133006	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120133013	I would like to thank you for the generally very positive reception of the proposal. As has been mentioned, one of the things Denmark particularly makes a living from is that we have been good at designing, new ideas. And it is, of course, the case that if the new ideas, the design, the innovation that is present are not protected, then you will soon be out of line, and then you will not have that benefit anymore. Therefore, it is very, very important that we can protect all the people, businesses and other fire souls who make a big difference out there. One question has been raised here at the end of the debate by the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. It is a matter of concern whether this is now an attempt to let a public authority come in and take the bread out of the mouth of an industry that already exists. That is not the intention of the proposal. We have been aware of the problem, but that is not the intention. Our observation is that small businesses and private individuals often do not take any action at all or make any particular objections when they are exposed to piracy, because they give up in advance, and because they often consider that the costs are too insurmountable if they first need to hire lawyers and everything else; that is our general experience. The idea here is that, with a single opinion and a single decision, one can actually go out to get a case brought, because then suddenly a more correct assessment of the situation has been given. So the idea is that in this way we would like to have more cases, so that private consumers and small businesses were protected, and that is what we need this link sometimes for. That is the thinking behind the way in which we have established it. And if there are questions, in terms of how it is screwed up and how we intend to make it work, we would very much like to take them in the committee work, but our forecast is such that the consulting industry out there will get more customers on this basis, and thus you want to increase the market, and that is what the proposal is intended for. So we are very much at our disposal in relation to questions and other matters relating to the legal work, because we do not, in fact, intend to take the bread out of the mouth of the existing advisers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120133300	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120133315	The debate is open. Sir. Kim Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120133347	The two legislative proposals we have before us here are, as the President said, L 100 and L 105 are, after all, the end of the now long and deep financial crisis we have been through. It is a crisis that is dragging its feet, and it is a crisis that has called for the subsequent very detailed regulation of the financial sector. That is also what we see with the two proposals here. The proposals are implemented and implemented in Danish law BRRD directive and the DGSD directive. First of all, Minister, many strange and rather strange combinations of letters and terms are now in favour of these directives. I have to admit that I find it a little difficult to keep them separate; rather, if not the Minister can sometimes have the same feeling. So could we not get used to, when we start by describing these directives, just making a parenthesis, explaining what those letters really stand for? Just as a little consumer guidance for the people who are now working with it. The proposals here specify a new division of competences and tasks between Financial Stability and the Financial Supervisory Authority as a result of the directives. A number of new powers and tools are also being introduced. All with the aim of ensuring faster and more adequate intervention against failing banks or potentially needy banks. In addition, the Bill provides for the possibility of transforming Financial Stability into an independent public company, a so-called SOV, and the Guarantee Fund for Depositors and Investors is dissolved and converted into the Guarantee Fund. So far, so good. I would be glad if the Minister would make sure that, in connection with the committee work on these legislative proposals, we get a note of which clearly, unequivocally and in plain Danish human language is trying to explain what more powers are being given to the FSA as a result of this. We in the Left are pleased with the clear division of tasks between the Financial Supervisory Authority and Financial Stability, which is now being proposed. We are pleased that the draft law so clearly shows that viable companies will be handled by the FSA, while the winding-up or restructuring of needy or expected needy companies will be carried out by Financial Stability. This ensures a clear division of tasks and competences, which will enable the two institutes to build very clear skills that can be activated in cooperation or individually. We also welcome the new concrete tools and powers that the legislative proposal and the directive give to the two institutions, in particular we welcome the new enhanced requirements for recovery plans. In addition, we are pleased that the emphasis has been placed on ensuring cooperation between the two institutions and also cooperation at European level. In particular, I would like to highlight the winding-up colleges which Financial Stability and the FSA are now to be set up for the purpose of cooperation at EU level, as something very positive, because with faster and cooperative and more effective intervention against needy and potentially needy financial institutions, the negative impact on both the Danish and the European economy is minimised, which usually comes with, for example, the problems of a financial institution or a mortgage institution. This protects depositors and customers, yes, the whole of society from excessive losses. This protection is further reinforced by the fact that the draft law aims to avoid, as far as possible, the use of public funds for the resolution of needy or potentially needy institutions. In future, the sector itself will have to finance the costs of financial stability, or they will have to be borne directly by the company or entity in need of resolution. In addition, the financial undertakings covered contribute to the winding-up process. We also welcome this because, although we have ensured through a number of bank packages that some of our most important financial companies have been secured at home, it is now time for the sector itself to pay the bulwark that needs to be done to resist the upsets of a financial company. This not only ensures greater consumer confidence; it simply also means that there can be no gambling with taxpayers' money, if you may say so. That's quite reasonable. We can also support the transformation of Financial Stability into an independent public entity, including the changes in ownership of Financial Stability, and the dissolution and transformation of the Guarantee Fund for Depositors and Investors. Finally, I would like to say that we are pleased that the government has chosen to implement the directive as it is said to be as close as it is. I should also like to ask the Minister to draw up a note which clearly and in general Danish explains us where it is nevertheless that this bill differs from the directives, so that we can also argue for the statement about the directive. It should, of course, be the rule rather than the exception that we implement directives closely. I'm glad if it's something we can settle with this proposal. Finally, I also think that it deserves to be noticed when it finally happens that we can take such a step. Then, with the note I have now asked for, I would also like to lay the foundations for us to be able to follow up on the close and close implementation of the directives as closely as possible. This is something that we in the Left attach importance to, and this is something that we have highlighted when we dealt with this bill as recently as today at our group meeting. We are in favour of the proposals, but let me finally conclude with something which must be heard as a small sigh and which, at the same time, is a question to the Minister, in the hope that if he cannot, then at least will try to answer it here today: is it as soon as the detailed regulation of the financial sector is over? It does not matter if the Folketing and perhaps even the ministries concerned, and at least the sector, think that they can keep up with, understand and see the meaning of all the regulation that is going on, because there has been a great deal. It is not because we say that it was not necessary, because it was, but there is also a day when we have to let things rest and let them work in practice and allow people to feel security in the rules that have now been established. Aren't we getting there? We are positive about the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120134129	Thank you to the rapporteur, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120134137	Thank you. As, unfortunately, the Social Democrat rapporteur cannot be here today, I shall read his speech. Today, we are cooperating with L 100 and L 105, which are concerned with the recovery and winding-up of financial undertakings as well as with the institution Financial Stability. The financial sector is essential for the functioning of our society, and therefore it is important that citizens and businesses can rely on the security of the money that is in the bank. It is also important that banks can provide risk capital to invest in the development of our societies. The banks thus have a central role in society, and that is precisely why it is important that we, as citizens and companies, can have confidence in the Danish banks. In the wake of the financial crisis, it became clear that not all banks acted responsibly. That is why I think it is positive that we are now seeing two directives on the part of the European Union, which provide a realistic framework for keeping the financial sector on a shorter leash. In a globalised market, as the financial sector is, it is important for Danish companies that they can compete on equal terms with companies from the rest of the EU, and therefore it is good for Danish companies that the rules are now harmonised. L 100 is about the transformation of Financial Stability from a limited liability company to an independent public company. The Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives have agreed that Financial Stability in an adapted form will assume the task of national resolution authority. In this way, the competences and knowledge built up in Financial Stability can be built on. The transformation ensures that future Financial Stability continues to have the right basis for implementing the business and commercial decisions made by Financial Stability in crisis management. It should be stressed that there is no change in the division of tasks between the Financial Supervisory Authority and Financial Stability. The administrative decisions taken against undertakings pursuant to the rules implementing the BRRD are located in the FSA. The tasks of financial stability are operational and commercial in order to implement and implement the restructuring or winding-up of the undertaking. Finally, it ensures that the operation of Financial Stability can be financed through collections from the sector. Compared with L 105, it aims at the overall objective of implementing a new set of rules for the restructuring and winding-up of financial undertakings. The new regulatory framework gives the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority and Financial Stability a number of new powers for the recovery or resolution of needy or potentially needy financial undertakings. With the proposed rules on early intervention, the FSA can take early action against a financial undertaking if, as a result of a rapid or significant deterioration in its financial situation, the company infringes or, what is very likely, violates the requirements of the Financial Activity Act. In practice, this means the rules on capital and liquidity requirements. What, then, is it that the FSA can intervene in concrete terms? The FSA will, according to the proposed earlier powers of intervention, inter alia: be able to require the undertaking to implement or amend its recovery plan or to draw up a proper action plan to address a specific problem. The FSA will also be able to require that the company's supreme authority be convened or that one or more members of the board or board of directors be even informed to resign. The entity may also be required to change strategy or structure or contact potential buyers in order to prepare them for resolution. Finally, the FSA will be able to require the company to install one or more temporary administrators. So, all in all, the effective instruments that can be used. The main purpose of recovery plans is to prevent a financial undertaking from coming into such serious difficulties as to require the liquidation of the undertaking. The recovery plan is a management tool which, together with the proposed rules on early intervention, must help to ensure that problems can be quickly addressed and that the companies involved implement the actions resulting from the recovery plan in order to ensure the viability of the company. The coverage of the Guarantee Fund is changed in relation to the deposits fully covered today. The starting point for the coverage of the Guarantee Fund remains that the contribution will be covered by an amount of up to EUR 100,000 per year. the depositor, i.e. in the vicinity of DKK 750,000. With the bill, a number of deposits, which today do not have full coverage, will be covered by the general coverage of EUR 100,000. This applies, for example, to deposits on child savings. Some other deposits, which have not previously had full coverage, will receive extended coverage for a limited period. It is important for me to emphasise that pension savings will continue to be fully covered. It can be seen from the consultations that the parties are generally positive about the new measures. However, it has been pointed out that it is problematic that Financial Stability should be exempted from the Public Procurement Act, but it is not quite surprising that this is the case. The exemption from the Public Procurement Act should be seen in the light of the fact that the BRRD Directive imposes on Financial Stability the obligation of professional secrecy under which information may only be disclosed to a specified list of entities and persons. Therefore, it is established that Financial Stability is subject to the obligation of professional secrecy under the Financial Business Act, which also applies to financial undertakings. At the same time, it should be stressed that financial stability in its business must respect general principles of administrative law, such as proportionality, equal treatment, inability, etc., and financial stability must be able to justify its decisions. Banks do business, but they also bear social responsibility, and it is therefore positive that, with this directive-related implementation of EU rules, we keep financial companies on a shorter leash. The two legislative proposals contribute to ensuring that, as citizens and companies, we can be more secure because financial companies are looked at in the cards. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120134819	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120134831	As the Left's business rapporteur mentioned in his comments on these two legislative proposals, it is true that some of the things that lie in these two legislative proposals are some that are being put into the sea because we will try to learn more from the financial crisis that we have been through and which we are still experiencing far along the way. It is true that we want a stable and sustainable financial system in Denmark, where there is great trust and credibility in the Danish financial institutions, mortgage institutions and also fund brokers. The legislative proposal that is here contains a number of elements which are quite reasonable. After all, it makes sense for us in Denmark to draw up the laws in such a way that we have the tools necessary to ensure that the FSA has good working conditions and to make demands on the companies that are in financial crisis or those that are actually going to be wound up. There it is, of course, that these legislative proposals help to provide some tools that are better than they have been so far. Where the challenge then comes in relation to these legislative proposals is, of course, that they are of a very different nature. There's a lot of different elements in these bills. They deal with two different EU directives. What is called the BRRD directive is a directive to which the Danish People's Party has said no in the EU Committee, and it is the case that the directive that is also included here on deposit-guarantee schemes is a directive to which we have voted in favour. This, of course, presents some challenges in relation to the legislative proposals that are here, because we cannot vote both for and against a legislative proposal. After all, this is not the case in the Danish Parliament. What is then also a challenge is, of course, shown when you look at the comments from the Ministry of Business and Growth. The note we have received on 18 December 2014 states on page 1 that these legislative proposals implement parts of the EU directives mentioned here, and that these proposals are also followed up by the political agreement of 10 October 2013. There was an agreement on banking package VI, and it is also a bank package that Dansk Folkeparti has signed up to. So we have some challenges in terms of supporting the entire legislative proposal, because it contains, on the one hand, some things that are included in some political agreements that we are included in, and, on the other hand, some EU directives that we have not been able to vote in favour of just now and which we have also voted against. We're gonna have to, among other things. We do not forget that we are in the process of discussing a possible Danish participation in a future banking union, and there we are dealing with the settlement mechanisms mentioned here and with joint financial supervision, and we are also working on an extended deposit guarantee model. After all, these are some far-reaching things that mean that we are going to give up a form of Danish sovereignty that our own national parliament has today to manage crisis management in order to secure our financial structure with mortgage and financial institutions, fund brokers, etc. We are, of course, involved in the work of the committee, but are immediately critical. We would also like to see an overview of the specific legal constraints which these two legislative proposals will have in relation to a possible Danish accession to a future banking union. We think it would be quite appropriate for us to have this illustrated, not least in view of the fact that we need to have that analysis in order to assess whether or not we can support the overall legislative proposal. So we enter into the negotiations and we support the fact that we need to strengthen the credibility of our financial sector, and we also have many of these elements in the legislative proposals, but at the same time we must also ensure that it does not become such a kind of mini-door opening to a future banking union. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135313	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135318	I just want to know if the Danish People's Party agrees that these laws we are discussing today mean that the bill for a bank going bankrupt can end up with taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135332	Yeah. In other words, with the elements of the legislative proposals here, we will maintain that the losses associated with the management of needy financial undertakings are borne by the shareholders alone and then, of course, also by the creditors who may be in a company that may have to close down. So, of course, there will be a risk. But it also says that maybe that's what it is, sir. Frank Aaen is interested in the fact that, as a rule, only the shareholders will suffer a loss. After all, we know that a situation may arise where the state will have some explaining problems and some challenges, just as we saw with regard to securing Danish pensions, etc. During the financial crisis, where we were in the forefront of re-selling flex loans and the bonds behind them. After all, we made some guarantees and some guarantees in connection with some of the first bank packages, where we included. Knows that some of the banks were pretty close to going downstairs and home to say it plainly. So that cannot be rejected, and that is also why it is a starting point. We support this as well; we will not deny that this may be necessary for the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135454	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135456	There's a lot of words for this. I can hear that. It's just so simple: Do taxpayers have to pay if a bank has made wild speculations in the country now I take it completely randomly • Ireland or Finland or Denmark? Is it all of a sudden the taxpayer has to pay for the loss? You have to be able to say yes or no to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135524	Well, you can't just say yes or no to that kind of thing, and I actually think that Mr. Frank Aaen knows. We have the whole SIFI discussion here in Denmark about it with particularly sensitive financial institutions. After all, we have seen that a number of Danish pensions were threatened during the financial crisis, because if the owners of the bonds, for example the short-term flex loans, were to suffer huge losses, it could have an impact on the income that might come and which would finance the pensions that people should have when they were to resign from the labour market. There is therefore no denying that there would be a situation in the future, and I think it is quite fair and entirely legitimate that nothing should be rejected. But what this bill says is that, as a rule, you do not have the same opening as you have had in the past. But I also think that Mr. Frank Aaen will note that Dansk Folkeparti has not finally agreed to this entire bill. We still have a large number of concerns about the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135623	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135635	Thank you. Whatever the individual may think of our financial companies, we cannot escape the fact that financial companies, financial markets in Europe are integrated and interconnected through many financial companies and activities. They act cross border, i.e. across national borders. One more shock or one flaw in e.g. a financial institution can therefore affect the stability of the financial markets in the other countries of the European Union. That is why, particularly in the wake of the financial crisis, we, as politicians, have implemented legislation to ensure a more healthy, competitive financial sector, but also to ensure that challenges and problems in the financial sector do not affect the rest of the real economy. The new regulatory framework for restructuring and winding-up establishes a set of tools and powers for the FSA and Financial Stability respectively in relation to the recovery and resolution of needy or potentially needy financial institutions and mortgage institutions, etc. The aim is to allow the authorities to intervene sufficiently early, i.e. timing and speed with these companies in order to ensure the stability of the critical financial and economic functions of the undertaking concerned. At the same time, rapid intervention will minimise the impact on the economy and the real economy and the surrounding financial system and, above all, protect customers and depositors. I would also like to mention here that this is precisely why we are also calling for the preparation of recovery plans and resolution plans for businesses. A vital element of the new regulatory framework is that it is maintained that losses relating to the management of needy financial undertakings covered by the legislative proposals must be borne in the first place by shareholders and then by creditors. It is precisely in order to help break the link to the state and thus minimise the risk I would like to stress that the risk is less expensive for taxpayers, and I therefore hope that it is also an answer to the Enhedslisten's question. Overall, I believe that the rules we are discussing today are moving in the right direction, and that is why Radicals can express their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135923	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120135925	Thank you. That was, in fact, an answer to Enhedslisten's question. I just can't quite understand the answer. But the Radical Left believes that it is okay that you have a bank that wonders wildly: it is just running away at the pocket; it loses the money, of course all the shareholders' money; it loses money for those who have been so careless to put a huge amount of money in the bank. You're in favour of securing smaller depositors, but the big depositors just lose the money. And then the Radical Left believes that if there is a balance, i.e. a residual loss, in the bank in question, then it must be paid by the totally innocent taxpayers. Can it really be true that this is what the Radical Left means?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140021	I think, to put it mildly, that this is a rather simplistic and caricatured premise on which the questioner bases the question. After all, the series of legislative proposals to regulate the banks is precisely to ensure that we contain some of the harmful speculation and minimise the risk that financial companies will, so to speak, get into trouble and have a negative impact on their economies. In addition, under banking package III, we are then involved in implementing some rules, so we are doing so in the order in which we are dealing with minimising the risk of taxpayers paying.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140106	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140109	It's fine with all those new controls, and what do I know, but if a bank goes bankrupt, why do the taxpayers in this country have to, why should the contributors to the welfare of this country hang on the bill under any circumstances? I mean, I am in favour of shareholders losing their money, speculators losing their money, but why is it ultimately the taxpayer who has to pay? I think we need answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140139	I do not think that at any time we can guarantee a hundred per cent that taxpayers will not be able to pay. This is not just about the financial sector; it is also about other sectors. However, somewhere I believe that what must be aimed at now is to see that we are moving away from a situation in which taxpayers are once again going to hold hands under the financial sector. Actually, that's what we're working on now. That's actually the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140208	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140219	Thank you. After all, the two proposals are extensive and there are also difficult wordings and texts in them. Now I brought them up here so you can just be aware of how much paper there is in these bills. I am also saying this, of course, because what I am saying here at first reading are the general reports on how the SF feels about the whole model that lies here, knowing that there are many details in it. We believe that the lesson that our society should learn from the financial crisis is: strengthened financial supervision, enhanced vision and more stable systems in the financial sector. So one might ask: is that what these proposals say? And that's it. This is the implementation of the EU directives that I am extremely pleased that we have got in this area, because we know that the financial sector is deeply integrated internationally and that therefore EU regulation is necessary in order to implement it here. I could also make a small peep about the fact that it may also have helped to get a very broad support for this, because the way in which the authorities can agree is actually fairly extensive. It is correct to strengthen the FSA and also to strengthen Financial Stability and clarify the difference between the two elements that are here. What is crucial is that the authorities can concentrate on prevention before it goes wrong, and that also means concentrating on early intervention. This applies both to the requirements for a recovery plan, and to a resolution plan, that is to say, that, if it goes in early and sees that there are indications of excesses in the company that there are signs of instability, then a recovery plan may be required. It may be that some would say: 'Well, isn't it very intrusive for an authority to do so in a bank?' It is certainly much more intrusive than it has been before. And that is necessary, because that is what we have learned, so that we cannot just let them drive as the worst would like. I'm not talking about the best. I'm talking about the worst. But to be perfectly honest, when we look at how the financial crisis went, not least in this country, there were some who were really the worst, but there were a lot of people who weren't in place and did what they had to do really, very many. That was also why the previous government had to make the rescue plan for the Danish financial sector in a hurry. We are in favour of the legislative proposals. And in relation to the whole discussion about exceptions to the public law and the criticism that some may raise, I would say that we think it is more insight into how these institutions work, which is the discussion, and perhaps some time could be spent on that. Because you cannot really have public opinion in the institutes that look at people and companies in the cards at a very early stage in order to be able to be preventive, I can see that, but it is not the same as not having a significant insight and having a guarantee that things are going exactly as desired politically. SF supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140636	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140640	Of course, we support more control over the banks. It's self-evident. I just have the simple objection, and I actually thought SF agreed that if you have a bank that speculates wildly and buys banks in other countries and loses billions, how can it end up with this proposal with more control and more supervision, and what do I know about taxpayers having to pay the losses? Is it really SF's policy that it may end with taxpayers having to pay the loss for an irresponsible bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140725	No, it's not SF's policy. SF's policy is that it should be paid by the bank and its shareholders. It has been SF's policy also in connection with the rescue plans in Denmark and it is also SF's policy. We can compare the rules that will apply when this is now adopted with the rules that we had before the financial crisis came. The situation in which the state had to keep its hand over the banking system, which we had to do in Denmark in the first place, will not have to do in the same way. Because it is made clear here that it is the shareholders who have to pay. The whole point of the proposal is that we will have a better legal situation than we have today. If Enhedslisten doesn't think it's a very good idea, then I really can't understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140821	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140823	I started by saying that it's fine with more control and more supervision and you name it. I'm just saying, do we not agree that this proposal means that the bill can ultimately end up with taxpayers? There are no other branches of the economy, it should be agriculture, where the bill ultimately ends up with the taxpayer. Doesn't SF think it's a really bad idea to make legislation where the bill can end up with taxpayers if the company ends up going bankrupt?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140856	Now I'm not going to repeat myself from before, but just the point of it. And it is that if we adopt this proposal, we are in a situation where the risk that the bill will end up with taxpayers is less than it is today. That is the first thing I want to say to the Enhedslisten. The second is that yes, I fully agree that it should end up with those who own they have businesses and are responsible. The third is that let us now find out about this in committee. I believe that Enhedslisten is running a case that is not really a team. But let us look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140937	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120140953	I think this has been a very fine debate. We were just talking about agriculture here a little while ago. For many years, agriculture has been exempt from some tax, not tax increases, they have actually received some tax reliefs, which they should have paid, but which they have not dared to collect from them. They have simply received some tax relief on land value tax just because they did not dare to levy the tax. The main reason why we didn't dare us in the Enhedslisten, but the majority of the Danish Parliament was that they had taken loans in Swiss francs. They had been advised to do so by their banks. And if we had then charged the tax they should have paid while the Swiss franc rose sharply in value and their speculation developed huge losses, then we could have overturned all sorts of agriculture and thus some banks which had been helpful in giving them these speculative loans. I think it is several hundred million kroner a year that the Danish Treasury has lost because we did not dare to charge the agreed tax because there was a fear that because of speculation they had carried out with the help of their banks, the agriculture would be overturned. This shows very well that action is necessary in order not to get back into the same situation, and we also have that discussion at the moment. Of course, as everyone has said here: the first ones to lose something are the shareholders. Yeah, okay, that's it. It hasn't always been like this. So, Danske Bank had actually gone bankrupt, but the Danish state helped them so that they did not go bankrupt, and since then those who had shares in Danske Bank and kept them have received a huge price gain. But in principle they have to pay, that is clear. Investors who have speculated heavily must also pay if they lose their money. We have been there several times with guarantees, because they shouldn't anyway. Then we have said that we want more control. We fully support this. It is a good idea to go in and say: we want more control over the financial sector. However, it remains to be seen that if the shareholders have only lost their money, and if the investors have only lost their money, then the speculators will have to pay the taxpayers anyway. That is what puzzles me, namely that one can make such a legislative proposal where it is still the case that taxpayers are stuck on the ultimate bill. And that is one of the reasons why we are, of course, against this bill. We support more supervision, we support all the other things in it, but not the ultimate that taxpayers have to pay. That makes me ask, and I always do that with great pleasure, when I have the Minister for Business and Development, is that not what it is called? So why do we not question whether the financial sector in Denmark should look the way it does? I do not mind that we have speculators in one bank or another. I have no objection to people believing that they cannot lose money, as long as we are sure that if they win they will also be taxed and that if they lose, they will at least have to pay the loss themselves. But here we have a minister who says that in principle we maintain the same sector that we have today. Should we not try to consider, when we hear all the time with good reason that people in the outskirtsdanmark, Vandkansdanmark, or what we want to do now are those places in Denmark where you do not have much opportunity to develop economically • cannot sell their homes, if they should not be helped to a greater extent with a state bank? I believe that today's fundamental debate will be the fundamental debate on whether we should just maintain the system we have or whether we should perhaps change the basics. I think that is what is missing on such a day as today, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141419	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141423	I think there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that taxpayers should not pay when businesses go downstairs and go home. It is certainly a sound liberal principle that you do not pass the bill on to others, and I think everyone shares that principle. The rapporteur is then proposing a state bank. Then I would ask the rapporteur to explain who pays if a state bank goes downside-down and home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141454	This is a very interesting question from a party bank. I think I can say that. And I guess I can also say that it's interesting to hear how you get through with the fact that the party's bank has lost 1 billion. kr. I'd like to hear about that, too. It is clear that if you make a publicly owned bank, you have to take any losses that may remain, take the gains that hopefully will be. But I certainly do not think you should accept the bill for privately owned banks. I mean, you can take responsibility for what you do yourself, you have the responsibility to do. But you shouldn't pay the bill for what others, including Saxo Bank, Jyske Bank, Danske Bank, are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141549	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141554	I think we are in complete agreement on this, and I would like to repeat that no one will have to pay for any banks if they do bad business. The banks themselves will have to pay for this, and their investors will have to pay for it. But I understand that since Enhedslisten wants a state bank, Enhedslisten must be of the opinion that politicians should be so skilled at running banking business and having such clean intentions when we should run such a bank that we could not be inflicting losses on taxpayers. I think this is an interesting consideration, especially in view of the fact that the financial crisis we were through was also largely due to irresponsible politicians who helped to make that crisis really, really bad in many places. However, it is interesting that a state bank should be preferable to private banks, with the argument that if state banks go bankrupt, taxpayers do not suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141702	That is a very interesting word to hear from the Commission, and I did not hear any contradiction from a party which has so much received money from a speculative bank, which has even now lost 1 billion. kr. I didn't really hear what the consequence is either, but it's also the party's own job to find out if it's gonna be negative in the party's accounts. However, we have never said at any time that a state bank should be a speculative bank in the same way as Saxo Bank, which has been a typical speculative bank. We don't think the state should do that. That must be what speculators are doing. We just think that we socially need to have a bank that is safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141748	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120141813	These two legislative proposals transpose the BRRD and DGSD directives into Danish legislation. The Directives ensure that there are similar rules and procedures across the EU for dealing with needy or potentially needy money and mortgage institutions, as well as fund brokering services. The aim of these directives is for a failing institution or institution which must be wound up, or a financial undertaking which must be wound up, not to burden the state and hence the taxpayer, and also, of course, for a potentially needy institution or institute or financial undertaking which is in trouble to be put right before it goes wrong. That is a very good intention, and it is certainly an intention that we can support. Since the financial crisis, the volume of new regulation of the financial sector has become overwhelming. I think, to be perfectly honest, that few politicians can understand the scope of this legislation and also the consequences of this legislation. At any rate, I find it thought-provoking that when you talk to people in the sector, they find it very difficult to see through this legislation. However, one thing is certain, and that is that this legislation and this regulation are going to ensure that lawyers and lawyers specialising in financial legislation go through very, very golden times. The consultation answers state that the directives have been implemented closely, as they are called, and the government should be praised for this. However, the Realkredit Council points out that the 2% buffer imposed on the mortgage sector is unnecessarily high and that this is a purely national matter, that is something that we are not required to introduce in the directives. An unnecessarily high buffer will not strengthen the resilience of the mortgage sector, but will lead to unnecessary costs for Danish home owners. The background to the financial crisis has been discussed and, as I said before, I do not think most people can understand the consequences of the huge amount of legislation that is pouring down on this sector. We have introduced SIFI legislation, and this is about imposing certain institutions, which are apparently too large to go down, extra capital requirements, etc., but which ultimately have some guarantee that the state will come and save them. And then we have to introduce legislation such as the one we are seeing here today, which reduces any loss to the state in the event of an institute becoming in need. We have a lot of questions about this In general terms, however, we have a lot of questions about this legislation, and we will take advantage of the committee work to ask them. But at least we can support the intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142227	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142231	As far as I remember, the Liberal Alliance has voted in favour of all the bank packages and everything else that has come to help the industry. That is why the party's wish is no longer that it be liberalism that governs society, including all companies, including the banks. That is why my very simple question is this: does this mean that the potential losses of the state must be reduced, or does it really mean that taxpayers should not be left on the account of a speculator, for example? a speculator at Saxo Bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142320	I think that these are strange questions that the rapporteur is asking. I'm gonna grab a drink. I do not know whether the rapporteur has had anything to drink today, but I think it is to be perfectly honest that these are very strange questions. I think it's irresponsible, and I don't want to answer them. I think it's a strange way to have a debate about running that Saxo Bank nonsense all the time. I have nothing more to say about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142350	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142354	Well, quite simply, I asked if it is true that it is the taxpayers and the state that will have to pay if a speculative bank goes down. The rapporteur said that we must limit the loss. So I'm just asking, should the state even hang on to a loss if a speculator bank goes down?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142421	I am trying to make this so clear that even the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Frank Aaen can understand that. If you are liberal, you want citizens and companies to bear the costs and consequences of the decisions they make. That is also what states and politicians want to do. Politicians do so very rarely, and that is why we are critical of the state. We want all banks, all companies that make bad and irresponsible decisions to pay the price themselves. We want their shareholders who have chosen to invest in them to bear the costs themselves and pay the price. We understand that the purpose of this directive is that it should be so, and we think that is a good intention. However, Frank Aaen is completely uncritical and blinded by the view that the financial crisis is solely due to irresponsible banks and is completely blind to the fact that irresponsible politicians who intend to pursue an expansive fiscal policy and have no objection to using financial companies to do so and have made legislation that has created unfortunate incentives for companies that they could then act on have a responsibility in this too. It's sir. Frank Aaen blinded, and that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142543	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142555	It has now been over 6 years since Lehman Brothers cracked in September 2008. The whole financial structure overturned, the institutions no longer held, there was quicksand throughout our financial system. This has led to a wealth of legislation and a wealth of initiatives from Danish, European and global sides to secure the foundation of the financial sector. We will not risk a new situation, as in autumn 2008, when it all overturned and uncertainty was created throughout the general global economy. Moreover, this had disastrous consequences for most countries. That is why the many initiatives have been well-chosen and, in the case of the majority, they have also hit very well. This has helped to ensure stability and security in and confidence in the financial sector. But it is also a time when we are just stopping and wondering whether more initiatives are now needed. Is there a need for more legislation? Is there a need for more restrictions to enable the financial sector to carry out its business? After all, the financial sector is a locomotive, a muscle and a driving force for growth in our society, so that money can be invested and borrowed for various extensions, production processes, new jobs, etc. And there it is important to have a financial sector that has the muscles to be able to invest and act. The two EU directives, which are the basis for the two legislative proposals we are discussing here today, clearly support. It is important to have a sensible set of rules for the restructuring and winding-up of banks. It is clear that you can get in some situations where you have to close banks quickly and sell them quickly. After all, we have seen this in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and in order not to overturn everything and not to create any distrust of our economic system, it had to be done in a sensible way. And most of them have succeeded. We can support the regulatory framework, the tools and the tools we are discussing here today. They mean that you can intervene more quickly and also more effectively when someone is in a position to overturn or about to restructure. So, on the conservative side, we can support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142837	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142841	I understood the rapporteur that most of the initiatives in the bank packages have hit well, but most of them are that some have not done so. Which, for example, could it be? Be?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142856	I'm behind all the bank packages we've made before and after I was in government myself. But it is the sum, it is the accumulation, it is the scope of the many rules that we have created, both at global, European and national level, which we must be careful not to be too restrictive, bearing in mind that there must also be growth in Danish society. So the point of pointing out a single element seems to me to be too extensive to do right now, because it would create a new discussion, but it is the scope of the many rules and the many laws that can help kill a burgeoning recovery in the Western world.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142936	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120142938	I understand that someone in the sum doesn't work well. I couldn't get an answer to that. It's okay, too. Then there is another question of principle: does the Conservative People's Party think that it is a good idea for the state somewhere to hold hands under the industry and that if there are losses that cannot be fully borne by shareholders and investors, then taxpayers should strike, that is to say, pay the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120143003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120143005	If we are talking about the various bank packages that have been, the initiatives that we started with from 2008 onwards, I would say that the state has made a huge amount of money from the bank packages that have been. Netly, the state has earned a large amount of billions. We didn't do that to make money. I do not think that the conciliation parties thought, when the agreements were made, that a lot of money would be made from it. But it was to ensure some solidity, some foundation under an extremely fragile sector that could have overturned the Danish economy. If we look at what has happened in Greece now, where 40% has been bottled. of pensions, where 30% have been cut. of the public budgets, with more than 30%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet reached agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120143051	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120143101	I should like to thank you for the overwhelmingly positive reception of the proposals and also for the many exciting aspects that have been brought into the debate here today, and I will try to see if I can address a few of them. However, may I not start by saying that the starting point for us today to have such complex and comprehensive legislation, as the Conservative rapporteur has rightly said, is that six years ago we had a serious financial crisis. It is my starting point, and this is the government's starting point, that one of the main reasons why we had the financial crisis was that politicians were too much deregulated financial legislation, so that we left it to the markets to control themselves, and they could not. What we have done since then, both in Denmark with six different bank packages and at European level, has been to go in the opposite direction by ensuring that a large number of rules of the game are put in place, so that we do not end up in the same situation again, as far as possible. It's in the government's optics common sense. The crisis management directive and the resolution directive are, after all, the last major legislative initiative in the great work. I was asked by the rapporteur of the Left whether I could now say whether this was also the last initiative we could make in the financial field. I can't promise you that. It all depends on which accidents are otherwise committed out there. After all, one can never guard oneself from being able to say that there are no places where we should intervene. Because I believe, and the government believes, that what we need to do is to show a rather active participation in ensuring that the financial sector is not just allowed to drive out there, because you are on the market not good enough to regulate yourself. So that's the thinking behind this. I was also asked by the rapporteur whether I would arrange for a good Danish translation of several notes. I can't promise you that either. Some of it is impossible to translate into good Danish. This is complicated matter, and you might have to take that as a starting point. However, I do believe that we have made a settlement in relation to bank packages and other things which I believe to be relatively clear in Danish expressing our intentions in relation to the legislative work here. But we should like to make an attempt if questions are asked about it, and that applies to all those who have been asked to ask for answers; of course we are making that available. Just to come back to this with whether you can guarantee that there will be no more legislation, I was sitting right before I was going to the Parliamentary Chamber today, and then a news release where there were some exciting reports from a network correspondence that had been there. There were some unfortunate people here... I guess you could call them those who had gained the experience that they had speculated through Saxo Bank's slot machine. They had heavily geared their investments and, as a result of the collapse of the Swiss franc, had suddenly taken on huge losses, and they were students and others. After all, the excellent question was asked whether they did not want to do so themselves. Yeah, you could say they were. You might also ask: Are some of these people ruined for life? Yes, they are. Do we all think that we will have a better society by allowing people to sit and press the button on the slot machine called currency speculation? I am not sure about that, I am not, and that is why I think it is very, very sensible to lay down rules of conduct, some rules on traffic, on how we act, even in relation to the financial sector. During the financial crisis we saw examples of, for example from Roskilde Bank, how very small incomes had been geared with very, very high amounts and how people had been incurring irreparable debts as a result of the fact that they had not behaved properly. Many of these things have been taken into account here. After all, we have not taken into account currency speculation, but it may well be that we should also start to take an interest in it. At least I think it's unbelievable to look at what's going on there. The Danish People's Party had a large number of questions here, and I was also asked, both by the Danish People's Party and, I think, by the Left, about how close we are to doing this here. We're gonna make it pretty directive-close. But there was also criticism of the directive. I am a little unsure about something, but we will have to clarify that in the context of the committee work. I do not see that in this draft law there should be anything contrary to, or going beyond, the agreements we have made in relation to Bank Package VI, but we will then have to clarify whether or not there is a problem there. In any case, I still hope that the Danish People's Party will be behind the proposal. May I then also try to address the question? I might as well be at the forefront before Mr. Frank Aaen gets in touch, he's gonna do that anyway, I'm thinking, but still whether the taxpayers have a problem with this proposal or not. Now, the whole point of what we are doing in this connection is to avoid taxpayers having to pay anything, contrary to what was the case in the financial crisis. There I and Enhedslisten can agree that it was unheard of to what extent the Danish state was going to guarantee something that had actually happened on the financial markets. At some point I think we are throwing the whole gross domestic product at it, and it is violent. That is why this legislation, and specifically these proposals, is intended to ensure that, as soon as we see that there is a mortgage credit institution, a bank or any other financial institution of a certain size that is going to be in trouble, we see it in time, and then we have made a recovery plan in advance, so that we know exactly what to do, in case there are sudden problems with that institute or whatever, and then we can go in and make a difference there. If things finally go so wrong that you got into a settlement situation, then with this proposal we are doing what we call living will, a live testament, where we also know exactly how to settle a bank. We know exactly how to do it, so that it is not taxpayers, but all sorts of others who are allowed to pay. That is the whole point of the construction here. So, as a starting point, it should have made Enhedslisten delighted that we have come up with this idea, rather than the opposite, I think, because it is precisely the principles of banking package III which have been implemented in the rest of Europe and which we are doing here. I think that the order is quite similar, that if we should finally go in with a liquidation, shareholders will lose their money first. Then there are investors who hold junior capital or other, hybrid capital, core capital, or whatever we call it, who are also allowed to pay. Then some of the major depositors will be allowed to pay, and then we will be able to set the entire winding-up fund in motion, but it does not actually say anywhere that we should come to the rescue of any taxpayers; it does not say anywhere. What the macroeconomic situation looks like, in the event that a very, very large financial institution falls over, and we have used all the other methods, is certainly an exciting theoretical scenario; I really would not hope that any society will ever get into that situation. For as Mr. Steen Gade also stated that, in the context of the financial crisis in Europe, in the light of this legislation, the stress test has been carried out or has gone through all the scenarios for all the financial institutions that came into difficulty in the context of the financial crisis, and there was not one of them that we had not been able to cover in connection with this bailin scheme, not one of them. So we're here for pretty good reason. That is why I believe that it actually responds to what was Enhedslisten's question with regard to problems with regard to taxpayers. At any rate, we have had the intention throughout to ensure that it is everyone else who bears the losses that there has to be a financial crisis again. There is the point, as is the case with all the other things we do, that we will never get this far until some unfortunate majority has emerged which begins to deregulate again. And then Enhedslisten and I and the others will get on the field, because we're gonna make sure that doesn't happen again. Because the market cannot find out for itself; the rest of us need to help out a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144022	The minister was right. Sir. Frank Aaen has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144027	Firstly, we fully agree that it was going so terribly wrong that the state had to issue guarantees, I even think it was 3 000 billion. kr. That's crazy. Well, the core of this proposal is that we can again pay the bill at the end of the process. And that is why we have always said that instead of trying to regulate and do everything we can to avoid a new crisis, we should perhaps divide the big banks and credit institutions so that no one in this country is too big to fall. That is what the problem is: that we have such things, and here there is one in particular so great that if it goes bankrupt, then society is going to stop somewhere. Perhaps we should separate that bank again in bank, insurance, pension, all sorts of things so that it doesn't get so big that it can't overturn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144135	I would say that all the legislation we have implemented in relation to the European Union, that is, as we have implemented in Denmark through these six bank packages, means that there is no longer any reason to split up the banks, as is also proposed by Erkki Liikanen, I think it is because it should be sorted out in relation to the way it is arranged today. It will, of course, make quite tough demands on what type of capital it is about, what provisions you have, what internal models are being used around the banks and elsewhere, so that it no longer takes place with such completely wild leverage and derivatives, which no longer have an overview of. So I actually believe that things are under control at the moment and therefore there is no reason to divide them up. However, to guarantee completely that there can be no unfortunate way of ending up in a new financial failure, I cannot do so. And I can only see today that there are festive speculative companies which can inflict very, very great losses on other people. That's the way it is, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144247	Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144249	But my simple question was really: should we try to regulate that those banks that are so big that if they roll over, it overturns society, or should we go in and say that we do not want any banks to be so large that they can overthrow society if they go bankrupt? It's because these banks are managed by a board of directors, which has only one purpose in life, and that's to earn more than a lot of money for themselves, so they get a maximum return. That is why it is still gone, I think, a very relevant discussion whether we should consider whether we should not have split up those huge financial institutions so that those who are misguided can go bankrupt and not count on somewhere to be rescued by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144341	There we have gone the other way, and we have, for example, appointed some to SIFI banks. These are the ones that are too big for us to let them overturn and then we have set some extra large and tough capital requirements for those banks in order to ensure that they do not go downside and home, plus that we via the FSA keep a very close eye on it, plus that through various legislation we are constantly making a number of specific demands, including in this legislation that we are dealing with today, that even the largest banks get a settlement plan, so we know how it will go if we suddenly have some very, very large losses. So we have chosen to go that way, and we actually believe that we should be on the safe side of the legislation we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144424	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144425	First, I would like to say that I find it deeply strange that the country's Minister of Business is talking about a specific company in Denmark, which pays tax in Denmark, and describes it as a casino company or a slot machine. I have to say, it's weird. The Treasury Minister doesn't mind spending the money paid in tax by this company's employees, and that's a lot. But the Minister of Business has to do that. In his speech, the Minister for Business said that deregulation was the cause of the financial crisis. In so doing, the Minister of Business directly contradicts the conclusion of the Rangvid report, which specifically says: • It is not considered to have been a real cause of the crisis in Denmark that since the 1970s there has been a general liberalisation of international capital movements and of the financial sector, including the construction of financial supermarkets, which can offer a range of different financial products [...]. Then it goes on to say: the committee estimates that Denmark's economic prosperity in the absence of free movement of capital today would have been significantly lower. The advantages of free movement of capital far exceed the possible costs. So the Rangvid report comes to the conclusion that it was not deregulation of the financial sector that led to the crisis, but the Minister for Business and Industry is not, I must understand, in agreement with what the Rangvid report says is wiser than the authors of the Rangvid report, and one is allowed to think that one is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144606	I think, unfortunately, that I would urge the author to go home and try to look up the dictionary and read what the difference between free movement of capital and deregulation is. It's not necessarily the same thing. I am in favour of free movement of capital; I think that is only fine. At the same time, however, to make demands in legislation, specific requirements, rules, I think are very, very sensible. To abolish the rules in and around the banks and financial institutions in relation to how to deal with capital... so deregulation... I thought I was unreasonable. That's the difference. Then the questioner is puzzled and thinks it is deeply strange that I am mentioning a specific company which saw, and this is precisely about Saxo Bank, as shown in today's press and it is also mentioned on television, but I do not know whether one has called and complained there • nevertheless ended up in some serious difficulties due to the fact that they have speculated very, very strongly against the Swiss franc. I would just mention that I saw a number of examples. I think it was recorded that it was students who had taken on a debt that they never got rid of, because capital has been very, very much geared up to the Swiss franc. So is it that I reflect on it and ask: do I think it is particularly good that something like this is going on? And the answer is a clear no, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144728	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144732	I'm not familiar with these stories. I am not going to defend any companies at all. I know there are municipalities in Denmark that have speculated in Swiss francs, taxpayers who have lost money on social democratic mayors, among others. in my own municipality, invested in Swiss franc. That's the way it is. Apparently, it's happening. It can be said that those who invest in companies, like themselves, bear the consequences of it. I have not voted in favour of social democratic politicians investing in Swiss francs in my municipality. There's so much like that. I would point out that the Rangvid report says that deregulation did not contribute to the financial crisis, that without deregulation we would have been a poorer country, the standard of living of the Danes would have been lower. That is why I just find it strange that, of all the things that appear in the Rangvid report on the financial crisis, we should tackle deregulation, liberalisation, when it specifically says that this is not the reason for it, but that it was many other things, among others. the fiscal policy pursued in Denmark, which was deeply irresponsible, that is, that the irresponsibility of politicians helped to exacerbate the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144847	I simply do not agree that the conclusion to the cause of the financial crisis is that deregulation was not a contributing factor. I believe that this is a comprehensive theme in virtually all of the evaluations that have been made of the financial crisis. Everyone has more or less stood up and said that what we have lacked has been a specific, concrete and proper piece of legislation that could prevent us from suddenly going into these crises. That is why I totally disagree with it. Free movement of capital is and remains something else. I have to say that. To the question of whether a municipality should invest in Swiss francs or not, I would like to say that the happy message is that this government, as one of its first acts, has banned the possibility of speculating as a municipality in Swiss francs. Then you can enjoy it. I don't remember what the Liberal Alliance voted for that case, but I'm gonna go home and break it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120144944	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145010	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145017	Thank you. The draft law concerns those persons who, as from 5 January 2015, have exhausted the total entitlement to daily allowances, training allowances and/or temporary labour market benefits. On the basis of an agreement with Enhedslisten and SF on the Finance Act for 2015, the Government proposes a new temporary cash benefit. The cash benefit is targeted at persons who are refused other public support or persons who are searched for reduced cash benefits, who themselves turn to the municipality and ask for an offer which participates in business practices or utility efforts and who are available for the labour market and are given a job. The right to cash benefits shall include persons who use up the entitlement to the benefits referred to here during the period from 5 January to 2 July 2017. As stated in the comments to the draft law, this proposal is estimated to lead to a deterioration of the structural public balance by 610, 330 and 40 million respectively. kr. for the period 2015-2017. The deterioration reflects a weakening of structural employment of around 2,100 persons in 2015, 1,200 persons in 2016 and 100 persons in 2017. This proposal must come into force if the Folketing ends up adopting it on 1 March 2015. In the Left we are very concerned to help people who are unemployed and who need a job, but unlike the government, the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party, we do not think that the right tool is a new benefit, that is, a cash benefit. Unemployed people do not dream of public support, unemployed people dream of a job, something to stand up to, and we do not help them by proposing new initiatives that maintain them in unemployment. At the same time, we also know that the longer you get public support, the harder it will be to get back into the labour market. We need to strengthen the opportunities for business to provide more jobs for the unemployed, and this could be done through tax cuts, the introduction of schemes that help create more jobs. Just take as an example the housing job scheme, which, according to Danish Construction, helped create 5,000 jobs, a sensible scheme which the government has now chosen to abolish. So it must soon end with one emergency package after another. Overall, more than 3.3 billion have been spent. kr. on various emergency packages and there has been no growth or jobs in them. This new emergency package can then look forward to a deterioration in the public economy and a weakening of employment. So in the Left we would have preferred to have seen that the money had been spent on sustainable solutions that created growth and that had ensured that more jobs were created in Denmark. So, on this basis, we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145356	There are several brief comments. First, it's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145400	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur think that the unemployment benefit reform has been a success? When I ask, it is of course because the Agency for the Labour Market and Recruitment here on 16 January has come up with a report which showed that only 13,000 of the 48,000 Danes have lost their entitlement to the allowance, according to Mr. Hans Andersen's own reform has been given a job. So does the rapporteur think that the unemployment benefit reform has been a success when we can see such a result?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145436	The benefit reform was a necessity at a time when the government at that time took responsibility for ensuring Danish economy and confidence in Danish economy, to keep its hand under confidence in Denmark and, as such, also to ensure that there were the number of jobs with which we managed to exit the crisis. So by that standard, the unemployment benefit reform has helped to secure confidence in the Danish economy, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145512	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145513	Thank you. It is possible that Mr. Hans Andersen and his colleagues at the time were carried by a very great sense of responsibility and it is also today, but unfortunately it cannot be with the unemployed, who have felt the great responsibility. We can see that it is just under a quarter of the 48 000 people who have lost the right to benefit. Then you have to face things and admit that it is a huge failure unless it was actually intended to happen that way. So what does the rapporteur think: has it been a success or has it not? Then I have a supplementary question: does the rapporteur think that confirms the theory behind the unemployment benefit reform, namely that if you tighten up with the unemployed, if you take some money from them, to put it a little popularly, they will get to work? Does the rapporteur think that reality proves that theory to be correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145614	After all, it is difficult to measure whether the unemployment benefit reform has been successful, because it has not been fully implemented yet. Thus, the fact that the benefit period is 2 years and only 2 years has not, as it were, been applicable during the current government period. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, there are a number of measures which have allowed more time to be spent on public support than the two years. So even if the wise men consider that, in this way, the unemployment benefit reform has led to unemployed people seeking jobs at an earlier stage than they would otherwise have done, then we cannot assess and settle the accounts as to whether the unemployment benefit reform has led to what we wanted, namely higher employment, and that there is a shorter period in unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145705	Sir. Eigil Andersen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145708	Thank you very much. We are faced with a parliamentary election within a reasonable period of time. We do not know when, but it must at least be by September this year, and in that parliamentary election the unfortunate thing can happen I hope it will not happen that Denmark will have a bourgeois government, perhaps with the Left as Prime Minister's Party. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left, whether the Left, as the governing party, will vote to remove the rights again, in other words the rights which the unemployed, according to this draft bill, as the Left, will vote against the benefit and which will give the unemployed, who are members of an unemployment fund, a income for a longer period than they would otherwise have obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145758	I look forward to the benefit commission coming up with a proposal on how we can have a better benefit system. There are shortcomings in the benefit system. But I'm not here to decide exactly what to look like. I would like to await proposals for this. Surely we can improve the benefit system on some routes, so that it will be better to help the unemployed more quickly. I look forward to that, and the cash benefits will also be part of that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145832	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145832-2	No, it won't. It is a temporary arrangement, and what the rapporteur is talking about here is what the benefit system should generally look like. There will be some who, after today's legislative proposal, will receive an extra amount from 1 October, so I would like to repeat my question: is the message from the Left to the unemployed that the rights that the government, Enhedslisten and SF today give to the unemployed will be removed after a elections where a bourgeois government may have arrived?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145909	The best thing we can do for the unemployed is to create more jobs in Denmark. And that is what the present government has not taken the initiative on. So, one emergency package has been launched after another, but Denmark has not succeeded in creating growth. That's what we need. The unemployed actually lack a job to get. That would actually be the best help. And then we have to discuss how we deal with both the Daily Money Commission and a future Finance Act for 2016, but we haven't taken a position on that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145942	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120145947	I think it is interesting that the rapporteur stands and claims that no jobs will be created under this government. I just want to say in all silence that while Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was Prime Minister, we lost 170,000 private jobs in Denmark, and within the last 3 years of this government 43,000 new jobs have been created in Denmark • just so the rapporteur is completely updated, compared to what the reality is in this area. It does not surprise me that the rapporteur says that the Left will vote against, but I am very disappointed that the Left will not vote in favour, because I think that the Left should take a little account of the reality. When we sat here four years ago and dealt with the then unemployment benefit reform, which the Left and the whole bourgeoisie here in the Folketing had decided to implement, there was a theory that there might be 1,200-1,500 who would lose their benefit rights. Then it took a while, and it was found that it was probably 2,500 instead of the then Minister for Employment getting it figured out. The reality has shown that the figure is ten times that, and this clearly shows that the reform that was thought to be carried out is quite different, and what was thought to happen to those who are now unemployed is not what is happening. They are losing their right to benefit, they are falling out of the benefit system, and so I think it is really, really a pity that the Left will not take on the responsibility of ensuring that there is someone in this group who will still have a subsidy that they will have with the bill we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150128	Nor will I deny that more jobs have been created in the last few years, but I do not think that is enough, and I do not think the unemployed think that is enough either. In other words, the initiatives and the growth initiatives are far from enough. After all, this government has downgraded the estimate for growth over and over again. That is why it is about how we can together take initiatives that will make companies believe in the future and create more jobs, because that is what the unemployed want. I don't think their highest wish is to continue on public support. After all, your highest wish is to get back to work, and that is what we must take the initiative on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150211	Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150213	But the latter is also very good to hear from the rapporteur from the Left, because we hear time and time again that the unemployed are lazy slobbers who just want to lie on the couch and do not want to work and that they just want social benefits. It is very good to hear that the Left has found out that those who are so unlucky to be unemployed in this country actually want a job and that is the most important thing for them. I would then like to say that I agree, as it were, that we need to create even more jobs, and that is what we are working on every waking hour. I think that applies to all social democrats, at least, and I think that applies to the Left too. It may be that we are not working in the same direction, but after all we have done some things together in this period too. Leave it alone. But when the rapporteur says that it is a question of people getting to work, it should of course be noted that this bill is not about keeping people in unemployment; it is about getting activity going. The rapporteur himself said that the demand for this benefit at all is, in fact, that you are available for the labour market, taking part in the activities you are assigned to, with a view to getting to work. It is even very specific in the comments that you have to take work, all offers along the way, or else you lose the right to benefit. Why on earth can't the Left vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150333	In relation to our financial law, I would like to say that we would have liked to have seen, for example, that: The housing job scheme continued. There are 5,000 jobs in this scheme, according to Dansk Byggeri, and it is now being settled. Then, together with Enhedslisten and SF, the government has concluded a financial agreement that is virtually devoid of new private jobs. Then we think it is the wrong way to go, it is the wrong way to prioritise the money. Our common funds must, of course, be given priority in order to create more jobs in Denmark, so that the unemployed have something to stand up for in the morning and get started with, and not that they keep coming up with one emergency package and patching up after another.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150415	Mrs Charlotte Dyremose for a brief comment. No? You have to watch your movements. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left and then give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen again as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150433	Thank you, President. We are discussing today draft law on cash benefits arising from the 2015 Finance Act. The draft law introduces a new temporary allowance for those who have exhausted their entitlement to unemployment benefit. This is not the first time we have discussed benefit-related issues, and I think I can almost guarantee that it will not be the last time either. Before moving on to the legislative proposal itself, I would like to reiterate the point that I consider to be quite crucial: here in the Folketing we have a responsibility to get the benefit discussion away from the political battlefield. We owe this not only to the Danes who are receiving unemployment benefits today or tomorrow. We owe this to all Danes who are today insecure about the prospect of becoming unemployed. That is a great many people, since unemployment can affect us all. It is not a joke that the last part of the word flexicurity is about security and security. It is at the very heart of our Danish model that there is also security for the individual, whether you are unemployed or in work. There has been no security since the Danish People's Party chairman, Kristian Thulesen Dahl, proposed a halving of the daily allowance period and doubling the recovery requirement with a brutal phasing-in. Since then, security has simply been broken. I'd be happy to repeat that for you. I believe that the Danish People's Party took the initiative to break the safety of all Danish employees • consciously or unconsciously, it is thus subordinate. The damage has been done. The question then is whether Dansk Folkeparti dares take responsibility for remedying the damage. We Social Democrats dare take responsibility, we take responsibility. By means of this bill, we are introducing a new allowance amounting to 80%. of the highest rate of benefit for dependents over the age of 30, and 60%. for everyone else. At the same time, young people under the age of 30 may receive a benefit corresponding to the rates for job- and training-ready cash benefit recipients. In this way, we ensure that fewer people have to leave home and home than would have been the case if Kristian Thulesen Dahls and Lars Løkke Rasmussen's wild experiment with the daily allowances and the Danish model ran out of control. When I started by saying that this is not the last time we are discussing daily allowances, it is also because the system is not good enough as it is today. There are some obvious problems with the benefit system, we need to have a completely new benefit system, which is why this benefit is only temporary. We need to get security back on the labour market. The new allowance system must be based on a thorough examination of the daily allowance commission and adopted by a broad majority of the Folketing, which is not in danger of changing in an election. We need clear and fair rules that the Danes can understand and relate to. And the objective is clear: a better benefit system that creates security for the unemployed • fewer should fall out. The daily allowance must no longer be a throwing ball, the daily allowance must no longer be a pawn in a tactical game. We must have a durable benefit system that ensures the security and tranquility of the individual employee. That is what the Socialists want. However, before that happens, we must take responsibility here and now for those people who, as a consequence of the 2010 unemployment benefit reform, risk losing their dependency base in 2015 and 2016. That is why we support today's legislative proposals and the temporary changes that can mitigate some of the worst consequences of the unemployment benefit reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150822	Sir. Finn Sørensen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150826	Thank you. After all, I am glad that we can support this proposal together, but I am surprised that the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, is complaining or complaining about the fact that the unemployment benefit issue is on the political battlefield. In other words, how can this be avoided when we have lived through three years, when the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have carried out an allowance reform which they themselves chose to combat? They have implemented it, they have implemented it, and then we have made some patches and patched it up, yes. However, the unemployment benefit reform has not been claimed as such. That is why it is the subject of political debate, and this cash benefit does not solve that problem. It solves a dependency problem, but it does not solve the fundamental problem: the consequences of the unemployment benefit reform, the many thousands who have lost their right to benefit or who will have to do so in the coming years and who will have immense difficulty in regaining the right to benefit. That problem has not been solved. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: how do we ensure security for the unemployed? How do we ensure that fewer fall out? And does the rapporteur really expect some good recommendations to be made to this effect by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, which the rapporteur himself has helped to set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120150953	The insecurity which I am referring to is that which I myself perceive there is out there, and I also believe that the Enhedslisten rapporteur is aware that it is not only for those who are unemployed; it is also for those who are in work because they simply do not believe in the benefit system we have today. Then it is true that the reform has been adopted under the previous government, which means that it has entered into force and is applicable under this government. At the time when we met in this Chamber after the last election, there was a clear majority in favour of maintaining it, and thus it has not been a discussion we could have had. What we can discuss is what will happen afterwards. We know that there will be a choice. The rapporteur from the SF has said this quite well. There will be a choice, and there we will have to and will deal with this situation. I think we have also made that clear, and the Prime Minister has also said so. We need to change the rules on daily allowances because the reform, as it is, is not working. I even think the rapporteur of the Left has said so. It's not working. Whatever you do, there are people who lose their subsistence and their daily allowance. Security is gone, faith in the benefit system is gone, and we have to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151109	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151113	Thank you. I guess it would have been possible to make clear demands on this government basis, so that we could not act contrary to the policy we ourselves had chosen. Apart from that, I think the rapporteur said something very, very important: this benefit reform is in fact opposed to all the employees. It is just over 2 million people who have made the effort to insure themselves in an unemployment fund, in the expectation that they will have some security if they become unemployed. Perhaps that is the worst thing about it at the end of the day, because this reform is, after all, along with other reforms in which we should not be wandering right now, helping to ensure that insecurity has spread in the workplace. And who is it that enjoys it? The employers have that, because then they can get more of what they want. I have to repeat my question: how are we to ensure that security comes back? And does the rapporteur expect anything good to come from a benefit commission which has been told that it should remain within the current financial framework of the benefit system with the reform that we are suffering today? How could there be a viable solution that really guarantees security in the labour market? Because if you improve something for the unemployed at one end, it will mean that you have to reduce it at the other end. Otherwise it will be more expensive and it will also have to fit in with the finance minister's calculator. How could something good come of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151241	I think this is a really nice discussion, also because we are at the heart of the labour market, that we have an unemployment benefit system, that we join an unemployment insurance fund when you start a job or start a working life, and that you can expect that the fact that you have joined an unemployment fund means that you have a security in relation to support if you are unlucky enough to be unemployed for a period of time. I have no doubt for a moment that one can well question how attractive it is to be in an unemployment fund today and how attractive it is for the individual employee to join an unemployment insurance fund, because the purpose of this, namely to have this assurance that you have a dependency base, is difficult to spot the system we have. There I can only see that a new benefit system is needed to ensure not only that it is attractive but also that you get security back. Can this be done even if the framework for the Commission has been set? I think it can, because whatever the Commission brings, there is a political debate and discussion afterwards about what such a reform should contain, and there I think all the parties will make every possible proposal, no matter what the framework is set for the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151401	There are so many who would like to make brief comments that I think we should start to consider keeping to the speaking time. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151410	Thank you. After all, it is always a pity to be the one, it will go beyond the fact that the President will enforce the rules. But it doesn't matter. I am a little surprised that the Social Democrat rapporteur says that now the Social Democratic Party will take responsibility for what has happened and that it is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti, who are the cause of the daily allowance. Yeah, we've never concealed the two-year benefit period. What is surprising, however, is that the rapporteur then says that there was a majority in favour of it being retained, despite the fact that the Danish People's Party offered the government that we could postpone the entry into force and extend the period of unemployment benefit, and that we offered to put the right of return back to 1⁄2 years. The Social Democrats have said no to no, we should not. Then it can't help anything to stand up there and say that you take responsibility and that you blame the Danish People's Party for what we have done. Because we have offered to deliver the majority and we could deliver the majority to the government in relation to these changes, but the government has, and the Social Democrats have said no to that. It is a little strange that the rapporteur stands up there and blames others for not wanting to take responsibility when you say no to what many want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151519	I take what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says here as an expression of the fact that the Danish People's Party is signing up and saying yes to taking responsibility for helping to solve this. However, I would just like to refer in all silence to what I said in my speech, namely that in the whole of the benefit issue we have to get away from this political battlefield that is in the Folketing. And whatever you may think, I believe that all the proposals that have so far come from the Danish People's Party in this discussion have not been an expression of an attitude that was in the heart and in the stomach, but only a question of making political teasing in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151600	Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151603	Well, it's kind of strange, for example. in relation to changing the right to return to 1⁄2 years, I have stood on the floor and offered the government to change it, and it said: No, thank you, it should not be changed, it will be as it is, and the two-year benefit period will remain unchanged. You wouldn't have it, even if we could deliver the majority. So you shouldn't stand up there and blame others for not wanting to take responsibility. The Danish People's Party openly acknowledges that the prerequisites left when we had made the agreement. We could deliver the majority. I know that the government then had radicals, but there was actually a majority around Radicals to change that. But the government is of the opinion, and the Social Democratic Party is of the opinion, that the two-year benefit period and the one-year right of return have come to stay, and then you will not touch it until the benefit commission comes up with anything. That's what you can interpret out of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151652	I believe that the rapporteur is fully aware that, even though the recovery requirement was being halved today, a large number of those who have lost the daily allowance would still be out of work today. And even if you rolled it all back, also for 4 years' daily allowance and 1⁄2 years' right of recovery, there would still be a large number of people who would not be entitled to benefit. And that just shows that the benefit system we have or had in any case is not going to work. We need to have another benefit system that can solve these problems so that we do not have the situation that would otherwise arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151743	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151747	I agree with the Socialist rapporteur on two points. Point 1: Today's cash benefits bill is a small step forward. Paragraph 2: I fully agree with the criticism of the current benefit system with a two-year benefit period. Then we'll get to the problem. When I am out talking to many people, including in trade union circles, I meet a great many social democrats, both Members and voters, and I also meet a lot of others who cannot understand that this is taking so long. They are dissatisfied with the passing of time and the absence of a new benefit system. They consider the Daily Money Commission to be a jar that has to stall so that time passes by to the next elections without anything happening at that time. The SF also agrees with that criticism. My question is: what is the rapporteur's response to the Social Democrats and to all the unemployed who think this is going too slowly?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120151851	I think my answer will be that we need to have patience, because when we have to create a new unemployment benefit system, and we have to do that, it will not help anything if we make a hoof solution. I think we've had enough of them without me pointing to anyone in particular. After all, it has become apparent that they have not solved the problem. None of the hoofsa solutions have solved it. The first and the worst was the one made by the bourgeois government in 2010, but none of the hoovesa solutions have worked. That's why you have to do this very thoroughly. And despite the fact that you so much want it to happen faster, I think you have to let the time go by. Then I would say that the Commission is not a jelly jar, because there is a report coming from them and there is a new benefit system. We have said that, and I believe that the SF and, incidentally, the Enhedslisten also agree with that. There's gonna be a new benefit system. What we have to make sure is that we have the majority after the elections, so that we can ensure that we also have a decisive influence on what it will look like. But there's gonna be a new cash benefits system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152002	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152006	But there is also a good principle, which states that one must use power while one has it, because suddenly one day one may regrettably have lost it. It is, of course, in the direction that this should be done now and that this should have happened a long time ago. I would also like to say that the real problem with this is not that a new benefit system cannot be created. Will the rapporteur seriously claim that with the talent of the Danish trade union movement, the A-Kassernes Samvirke and among many other good people, including in the rapporteur's own party, there is no talent that could create a new benefit system in two weeks' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152053	That was a very serious question! I think there are a lot of good and wise people in both the trade union movement and the social democracy. I have no doubt about that for a moment, and I also believe that they could make a great many good proposals. In fact, I look forward to them doing so, because we will need them when we discuss what a future benefit system will look like. But I will return to some of what I said in my speech. After all, it cannot help anything that we are doing an unemployment benefit reform which is based on a narrow majority, because then, after an election, we will again stand by someone who wants to change it. At any rate, it is my hope that we can create an unemployment benefit system that is so broadly based in the Danish Parliament that there are no people who are in work or those who are unemployed who will be in doubt that it is the system that is and that it solves the problem today, namely that people are losing unemployment benefit before they have a job again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152152	Sir. Hans Andersen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152156	Thank you. I just want to ask the rapporteur a question about the financial law that has now been agreed between the government, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten. How many new private jobs are there in the Finance Act? Because it is, of course, about the fact that if we are to help the unemployed and there I think that the Socialists share the view of the Left that we should do so, it is a question of increasing the amount of jobs. It would be better for the unemployed. And then the question is: how many more private jobs are there in the Finance Act that has now been agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152242	I shall not be able to tell you how many private jobs there are in the Finance Act. I can tell you how many people there are in the bill we are discussing here, and it is not as a goal to create private jobs, no matter how you turn it around. But I think it is a little interesting that the rapporteur of the Left is constantly, for example. Even earlier here today, the scheme of the craft allowance takes out and says that it is now disappearing, and then we are losing a whole lot of jobs. I think it is very interesting that we have had an arrangement with a craftsman's allowance which, moreover, has been running throughout the period during which this government has been sitting and that there are still 48 000 people who have lost their entitlement to unemployment benefit. It says something about the fact that it is certainly not the craftsman's allowance that has been the solution to that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152321	Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152324	Thank you. The problem is, of course, that we have a government that enters into a financial agreement with the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party, which does not really contribute to creating the growth we need. Well, we need growth to help the unemployed get started. That's why I'm preoccupied with creating some more private jobs. And there it is boring that the housing job scheme is now being phased out; now it is no longer possible to ensure that a lot of craftsmen are actually being kept going. I've got stories from small craft masters around who have now fired people. That does not contribute to growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152411	Oh, my God! It's too bad we have so little time to talk about this, I'd say. I believe that the good people who have lost their jobs with the small craftsmen can go directly to the large jobs that have been set up in the conciliation we have made, about hospitals, the Fehmarn project and all sorts of other infrastructure projects where there is a lot of work for those who are craftsmen. That's not the problem. It may be that the little master doesn't have much, but he'll have to figure out how to solve that. These are not the ones we need to ensure; they are more the ones who are looking for the jobs. Then I would like to say that, in relation to this bill, we are looking hard to ensure the support of those people who lost their daily allowance because of the rapporteur's party's unemployment benefit reform in 2010. That's what we're focusing on in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152456	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152500	I think it is comical to hear the rapporteur stand on the platform and say that now we must stop talking about daily allowances, that now we must have a political solution to this, that we must stop now. For over four years, the Socialists have done nothing but talk about unemployment benefits. They went to the polls on cash benefits, and now they're standing there saying that now we have to stop talking about it. That's funny! Can the rapporteur say how many jobs are created by the financial agreement of which this bill is also a consequence? How many new jobs can the financial agreement create for some of the benefit recipients that the rapporteur, when speaking, is so concerned about? He talks a lot about it, but there is no consequence of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152555	Now we can rewind and see what has been said here, but I do not think I have said that we should stop talking about cash benefits. I have said that we must stop making it a political battlefield. It's something else entirely! Because it is precisely a question of deciding, depending on whether it is one or other majority in the Folketing, one or the other. What I want is for us to have an agreement, a broad agreement, on the other hand, on the other hand, there will be a choice at some point in time which will ensure that there is no slinging course in this and that there will be no hoofsa solutions, because that is what we have seen over the last period. The puppy solutions will start in 2010 with a bourgeois majority here. Then there have been some proposals which had to solve something but which have not solved the problem. We have been able to see that clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152644	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152647	It is interesting that a Social Democrat rapporteur calls the initiatives that the government itself has put in place for hoovesa solutions, but there are many of us who think they are. I just still find it interesting that there is a Socialist standing on the platform saying that this unemployment benefit issue should not be a political battlefield now, since if anyone is the Socialists who has made it a political battlefield. You've spent all your energy on it, trying to milk this debate as much as possible up to a choice for your own benefit. Okay. But I did not get an answer to my real question: how much employment is there in this Finance Act? How many new jobs are there for these benefit recipients, whom the rapporteur seems to be so concerned about?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152730	Now it is the case that the government that is now is not afraid to take action nor is it afraid to create new jobs. A large number of reforms have been launched in the later period, and there will also be more. Then there will also be growth measures... at least it has been announced by the Prime Minister... and therefore I take it quite calmly as to what the number of new jobs will be. It can be seen from the statistics that while we had a bourgeois government supported by the Liberal Alliance, we lost 170,000 private jobs, and under this government 43,000 new private jobs have been created, I would say to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. It should be the case that sir... Joachim B. Olsen stood and applauded and rejoiced over it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152812	Mrs Charlotte Dyremose for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152815	Thank you. I am simply deeply puzzled. So, first of all, the rapporteur is talking about helping those who have lost their trust. Can we not just make it clear once and for all that if you have no other support in this country, you can get cash benefits, so we are not discussing people who lose their retirement pension, they either have something or they get cash benefits. The second is that the rapporteur speaks a lot about the fact that we must now be careful with hoofsa solutions. But I am sorry, is this not the third time that this government has introduced a hoof solution in relation to the benefit system, which is creating uncertainty about what opportunities and rights are there? And, therefore, is the hoof solution not helping to undermine the otherwise quite excellent unemployment benefit reform that the government has helped implement and which could help create growth and jobs, real growth, real jobs, something to get up to in the morning, a job you have for a long time, and not a hoofsa solution that expires?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120152915	Now I am not much in favour of having to correct rapporteurs in public. I just want to say that this bill is holding hands with those who lose support, those who can't get support by other means. And when we get all the way to cash benefits because the rapporteur is right about that, you can say that we have a rule in Denmark called mutual support, and that means that if you can be supported by a spouse, you are not entitled to cash benefits. This bill gives the right to receive an amount equivalent to cash benefits if you lose your support because we have a mutual commitment to take that small detail there. So that's why this is important. It's really, really important. I think it is interesting that the rapporteur thinks it is a success that 48 000 people have lost their right to benefit, and this has apparently been the aim of Conservatives to reform unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153017	Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153021	So no, we're not talking about people losing their trust. We are talking about the fact that the government is now for the third time introducing a hoof solution, in which the government tells people that, rather than taking care of themselves and yours, you take your hat in your hand, you go to your neighbor and ask your neighbor, who may be on cash aid, to support you, instead of your loved ones taking care of you. This is then done as a hoof solution, the third in line, even though the rapporteur stands and speaks against hoof solutions. Wasn't it worth dropping this hoof solution and then waiting for the benefit commission and once and for all do what the rapporteur has just requested, namely create a single benefit system?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153107	I mean, this bill isn't a hoof solution. It is a very clear, well thought-out proposal to ensure that people who lose their dependants can continue to have it for a period of at least up to 3 years after they have been on cash benefits or on labour market benefits, i.e. a cash benefit for up to 3 years. That is what this is all about: mitigating the reform that Conservatives, among other things, are trying to do. helped make in 2010. It's not a hoof solution. The solution to hoops is if you make some moves where you think that with a snap you can ensure that no one loses their benefit rights. It has not been possible. So the solutions we have made with SF and Enhedslisten in recent years are not hovsa solutions. They are well thought out, but we have seen that other things are needed to ensure that no 48 000 people have lost their daily allowance. More jobs must be secured, and this must also be done in a targeted manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153205	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, speaking for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153214	Thank you, President. It may well be that this is not a hoofsa solution, but it is certainly a solution that has been made so opaque that there are a lot of people who find it difficult to understand what this is really about. I do not think I should try to go into that in depth either, as the previous rapporteurs have done. However, it is an agreement that provides a cash benefit to those who do not already have the opportunity to receive a benefit. Then it is for a limited period of time when they have lost benefit rights, labour market benefits, training benefits, and it will be escalated until 2017. It is the case that the escalation begins when we have had a choice and that it is the new government that is about to look at it and what comes from the benefit commission. And then we'll have to see when there's gonna be a playout from there. It is a little strange to stand in here and listen to what is being said, including from the previous rapporteur who blamed the Danish People's Party for the unemployment benefit reform. Yes, the Danish People's Party came up with the proposal for the 2 years. We are not hiding that, but what is a little strange is that the Danish People's Party has offered the government and offered the Social Democratic Party that we should change the unemployment benefit system again, because we could see that the conditions had gone from when we made the reform. After the elections, there was not an intact majority behind the settlement on the unemployment benefit reform. That is why the conciliation had lapsed and the government could actually have changed it, just as it wanted to. There was no settlement that tied up anymore. Therefore, the Danish People's Party also offered the government to cast votes to postpone the entry into force until the crisis was over. We have also offered the government to reduce the recovery requirement to 1⁄2 years again. Both have been well rejected by the government. The Prime Minister has even said that the two years have come to stay. There was nothing to come by there, we could forget about that. That's the government's problem. Then you make one hoof solution after the other. That's the term that used to be used before. In any case, the rapporteur said that these were not hoofsa solutions. But it is such a variety of solutions that we have come up with instead of looking at what we should do now. And it has all been postponed until a benefit commission has come up with a proposal on how to make a new unemployment benefit reform. After all, there is something that we in the Danish People's Party agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur, namely that there must be a broad majority behind a new unemployment benefit reform. The risk of changing the majority that will change this cannot be helped. That is why I think we will also have a great deal of work to do on a new unemployment benefit reform. In any case, it must be broadly based. That's how far we agree. And I think we can easily agree on part of the content of such a reform. But in the time that has passed, the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of the measures that have come from the government to help those who fall out. We also heard that the rapporteur clearly said that this is not just for those who have lost the daily allowance, because many would lose the daily allowance anyway, and they could also benefit from it. Whether the benefit period had been 4 years, a great many had fallen out and lost the daily allowance. This will help a little, so they get a cash benefit if they can't get some cash in advance. However, the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of all the other measures taken by the government, and we will therefore also support this proposal. It's so not confusing. In any case, the municipalities have not been too happy with the way it is done, as I interpret the consultation answers, but I wonder if the instructions from the Ministry can correct it a little, so that it becomes easier and clearer for those who have to sit out there and deal with matters. After all, it is up to the people of the municipalities to decide whether people can get these benefits, as I understand it. So I hope there will be a guide that is easily understood by the municipal people. I think that is also the position of the Minister. I certainly hope so, because when you read the bill, it may seem a little confusing. I can't see over here how long it's left. 1 minute). Okay, it's off here, but it's also comfortable. Then you could have just talked until you were interrupted by the President. That's very good, too. But we know that there are quite a few problems. We had just hoped in the Danish People's Party that the government would have listened a little and accepted the offers we made to the government. But it's the government's lot to choose and choose, who you want to negotiate with, and who you want to make a deal with. This has been done with the Enhedslisten here. As I said, the Danish People's Party is voting for this proposal, there should be nothing there. We look forward to the forthcoming negotiations on a new unemployment benefit reform when it comes sometime in the autumn. Then we shall see when the negotiations will begin and what government will be in place at that time. 'Cause it's only gonna be after there's been a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153723	We have noted that the clock on the platform is not working. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153732	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I am glad that the Danish People's Party is voting for this little patch solution. What the Danish People's Party has offered to do after the 2011 elections has only been temporary solutions. As such, they have also been able to be okay, and on some stretches we have agreed on them. But I would like to hear: what is the Danish People's Party's proposal for changing the benefit system as such? When we need a long-lasting solution, what will it look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153812	Well, I don't have a final offer for that now and here. I really don't think so either. Finn Sørensen has. There are a great many elements that are part of what the Commission is going to do. We also know that Enhedslisten has tabled a great many good motions for resolutions, which we in the Danish People's Party have said should be included in a debate on a new unemployment benefit reform. The Danish People's Party does not feel bound by the fact that there must be a mandate that says it must not cost any more. We believe that, if we have a right system of compensation, which also brings people back into employment, it must cost more than what has been proposed. But it's the government that set up the commission. I do not have any ready-made solutions, and I do not think, as I said, that Mr. Finn Sørensen has it. Sir. Finn Sørensen probably has some ideas about what should be included in such a mandate. We also have that in the Danish People's Party, but of course we do not have the completed solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153908	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120153911	Thank you to the rapporteur. No, it depends on what you mean by a finished solution. After all, I took note of two important points in the rapporteur's reply. One was that the rapporteur thinks that we have made some good proposals in this Chamber. I am not sure that the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of all of them, but we can just go back and look. If that's how you think they're good, then that's good, then there's something to build on. Indeed, there are 13 different motions for resolutions that we have tabled, with very concrete improvements. So I think that is a positive statement. Then I also think that the second statement is positive, and I would like to keep the rapporteur on that, because I think it might be difficult. It is the announcement that you do not feel limited by the mandate that the government has laid down on the benefit commission. I don't really have any further questions, I just think, as they say in Nudansk, I would highlight those two statements and then remember them later. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154015	Thank you. It is always difficult to predict the future, but I can just say that some of what we at least think needs to be addressed in the Commission is indeed the right of recovery. It is consumption of the daily allowance period. Sir. Finn Sørensen said something himself in hours. It may have to be hour by hour. There are a lot of things that need to be included. For example: I also believe that the time off of overtime before benefit can be obtained should be included. There are a great many things that must be included in a mandate, let us now see what the Commission comes with and whether it is useful. We have seen before that something has been poured down the board when they have come with a result that has not been used anyway. But we hope in the Danish People's Party that there will be a good play from the Commission that is going to go to, so that we can have an allowance reform that can last for really, very many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154111	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154115	Of course, the Danish People's Party made a big mistake in proposing in 2010 that the benefit period should be shortened from 4 to 2 years. A real sin was committed, I would say, against the unemployed, but now the Danish People's Party has changed its mind, and we must welcome every sinner who repents. So we welcome in the SF that the Danish People's Party now wants benefits to be increased, and I understand this both in terms of a shorter work requirement for the recovery of daily allowances and, as Mr. Thulesen Dahl has also said, a longer benefit period. So the question is: How far does that requirement go from DF? I have understood the previous answer given here in the Danish Parliament, in the sense that the Danish People's Party will not make it a condition to point to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister, that these improvements are being made in the area of unemployment benefits. That is why I would like to ask whether I have understood it correctly, namely that the Danish People's Party will not make allowance improvements a condition for pointing to a bourgeois prime minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154223	Fortunately, we are allowed to change our views on the various issues. The SF did that, too. The SF helped to establish when they entered the government that the unemployment benefit reform should not be rolled back because that is what the government went out and said: that the benefit period should be as it was, i.e. 2 years, and 1 year for recovery. So the SF had also said that this was what they went into the government on. And, of course, the SF has changed its attitude. This must also be accepted, and it is also OK. I do not think it is possible to say that a benefit commission has anything to do with what Prime Minister should be. I believe that the benefit commission is so broadly based that it applies to virtually all parties in here that they are prepared for us to have a benefit commission. It is whether it is a blue or a red prime minister we do not know who will be prime minister at this time. I believe that both blocs are prepared for us to have a broadly based unemployment benefit reform, regardless of who is Prime Minister. And then we go into it, and then it is the negotiations that are taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154331	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154334	SF hasn't changed its mind. We have had the same attitude throughout, namely that there should be improvements to the benefit system. And while we were in government, there were certain things that we got through, but I also think it is obvious to everyone who followed the public debate that there were also power struggles in the three-party government that the SF lost and this was one of the areas where it happened. What I want to say to the rapporteur is that the benefit commission is one thing, but some political decisions have to be made afterwards, and that is why I would like to ask once again: do I understand correctly that the Danish People's Party will not make it a condition for pointing out to a bourgeois Prime Minister that a more secure benefit system should be created?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154418	I think that the future Prime Minister, whoever it is, i.e. whether it is Lars Løkke Rasmussen or Helle Thorning-Schmidt, is prepared to make an allowance reform that creates security. I think that is actually widely based in the Folketing. So I do not think we should agree to say that this is a requirement. You shouldn't come to a future prime minister and say: we have to do this. The agreement is precisely that a commission has been set up. We have accepted that the government has set up that committee on daily allowances, and when it comes up with a proposal, we have to negotiate on how a benefit reform should be. That is why I expect the Danish People's Party to be involved in the negotiations, just as I expect the SF to be involved in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154505	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I give the floor to the radical rapporteur, Mr President. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154517	Thank you. Several rapporteurs have already mentioned the content of the new cash benefit, so I will not go into the details of this benefit, but more about the background to it and the future prospects. We are introducing cash benefits because it is important for the Radical Left and for the government to provide a substitute for a group of long-term unemployed citizens who are in a difficult situation. We do so on the back of a number of other initiatives. I should like to mention briefly the special educational services, senior jobs, labour market benefits, etc. Here it is important to keep in mind that there are two tracks. One is the path of reform, and it is about ensuring that our economy works optimally, about dealing at all times with the economic challenges we face, to carry out reforms relating to the labour market, tax, industry, education, so that more people will have the opportunity to enter our working community, while Denmark has the necessary competitive power to compete with countries with which we compare and compete. The second clue is to have the social balance, also while we are implementing reforms, because it is important that we ensure that there is a chance of supporting those who do not have the skills but want to. It's in that light that we need to see the cash benefits. We can then argue, and I believe that many of the bourgeois parties can, that if we are to look at the pure effect of labour supply and employment, we should invest more in reforms and other things. I just think that one doesn't rule out the other. It is about balance between competition and social responsibility. I would also like to say in this connection that we have carried out the benefit reform, which we have debated in the Chamber. That's one side of the equation. The other side of the equation here is to implement an employment reform, as we have just done, which is about saying: okay, we have a shorter benefit period, but we also take care of the unemployed more quickly, so that we prevent long-term unemployment and ensure that people are trained. It's part of the Danish model. In the Radical Left we pay tribute to the Danish model. We celebrate flexicurity, not only by talking toasts, as some people do, and which may otherwise run a little with half a wind and a free round, and which will not reform, but also by doing so in practice, so that we ensure the future of the Danish model. The fact that you do not want to reform the Danish model is to fail the Danish model. We do not want to do so in the Radical Left. That is why we stand by the reforms we are implementing while taking social considerations into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154850	There are a number of brief remarks, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154854	Thank you very much and thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that it is very important for the Radicals to secure the subsistence allowance for people who lose their benefit rights, but why did they vote in 2010 for this unemployment benefit reform, which shortened the benefit period by 2 years and made it much, much, much harder to earn benefit rights? That's question one. Question 2: Is it not the case that if it were up to the Radicals, not one of these patch solutions would have been implemented since the 2011 elections? Question 3: Does the rapporteur consider that the unemployment benefit reform is a success?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120154944	Yes, that was three questions. The benefit reform has worked. It could have worked even better if it were that we were in a better economic situation, but the unemployment benefit reform has had a positive effect on employment, and we are glad to see that, but of course there are some things that could be better and we will take care of them. The daily allowance system is not optimal, and that is why we have set up a commission to ensure that we have a robust and more coherent and simpler benefit system. That's one. The second is a 'no' to the question of whether we would not have carried out one of these extraordinary measures if it were up to the Radical Left. That's not true. As rapporteur, I have been out almost all of July 2012 to say: No, we are not touching the unemployment benefit system, the unemployment benefit reform of 2010, but we are looking at some job packages or extraordinary measures, so that is simply not true. And I don't remember the third question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155053	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155055	The third question was whether the rapporteur thinks that the unemployment benefit reform has been a success, and the rapporteur replied in part to that, but I would like to support the question a little, if I may say so. Has the unemployment benefit reform been a success when the result so far is that 48,000 • the latest statement, I believe that there are more already lost their benefit rights, but only 13,000 have come into work? Has it been a success?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155124	The daily allowance reform has worked on several parameters. The most important parameter is that more people have entered jobs compared to if the unemployment benefit reform had not been implemented. That's one. The second is that it can be said that, in the wake of the unemployment benefit reform, we have carried out a number of extraordinary measures which have ensured the support of those who have exhausted their benefit rights. I think that is part of history, although Enhedslisten does not choose to include it in the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155158	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155203	One of the things about the Radical Left that I can be impressed with is the ability to defend different views all the time. The radical leader, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior Morten Østergaard, has been out to beat the drum for the goal to be that 3 million Danes should be in employment and that it requires reforms. But the Radical Left can also help to do something like this that reduces employment in Denmark. I think the attempt to wrap it into social responsibility is a good one, but of course it is not right. For all those people who cannot support themselves in Denmark are already entitled to cash benefits. They will be supported. Therefore, this benefit is a knee-down for SF and for Enhedslisten, this cannot be a radical policy when you want to increase employment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155311	I will choose to answer the question by wondering why it is really felt that the Radical Left is departing from its path of reform by going in here for a limited group of people and making a social policy approach which, like dealing with some of the unintended effects of the unemployment benefit reform. I think it is precisely the strength of our reform trail that we have the long light on the whole reform process, with the growth package we provide for tax cuts to companies, ensure that more people enter employment, we constantly focus on the reform trail, but that along the way we also say that if someone gets stuck, someone has a porous dependency base, we go in and deal with it. That's what this is all about. I think it is worrying if it is that the Liberal Alliance believes that the fact that we are doing something social for a limited group of people should really ruin the whole track of reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155414	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155417	Well, we believe that the Radical Left is helping to undermine the path of reform with this action. The Radical Left usually says that they listen to economists. It has been one of the major battles of the Radical Left. That is why, of course, the rapporteur is also aware of some of the criticisms which, among other things, have been made. The wise men have to this government, are all these initiatives, new benefits that are constantly being made and which are precisely helping to create some unintended effects in the unemployment benefit reform, i.e. constantly undermining this unemployment benefit reform. I am sure the rapporteur is aware of the wise men's criticism of these various initiatives. The Radical Left then chooses not to listen in this case, but it is precisely an expression of the fact that we are helping to undermine the path of reform in Denmark, and we in the Liberal Alliance do not understand that the Radical Left is helping to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155514	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen got to say something that was completely wrong and saw something that was half wrong. It is completely wrong, I think, to say that the Radical Left is undermining the path of reform. I would say that the Radical Left is the driving force of the Danish Parliament in this path of reform. And perhaps the contours of a little jealousy on the part of the Liberal Alliance, which has not had that role, can be seen, and I would like to give a manual or two if that is needed. The second is what is half wrong, and that is precisely because the questioner again talks about the purely employment effect that many economists talk about, but economists do not always talk about social responsibility. We have always said that we have never run away from it, we acknowledge that the social aspect is of great concern to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155607	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155610	I agree with the radical rapporteur that today's legislative proposal on cash benefits is a small step forward. But then I just have a short but very central question: how are the Radicals comfortable with being the stop-block that prevents a reform of unemployment benefits with greater security during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155637	The very colourful description of Radical Left behavior nevertheless seems to me, if I may, to be somewhat polemical in order to use, that is to say, to say that we should be a stop-block. No, the Radical Left is fully involved in reforming the benefit system. We want us to go in and make sure that the unemployment benefit system, which I think has gradually become incalculable for the benefit of unemployed citizens, case workers in the job centres, employees in the cashiers and companies and for the economy at all. So it's about getting a benefit system where we like to take an X-ray and get all the challenges handled instead of making some stop-go where we make a patch solution here and here. So there is a need, like making a total renewal of the benefit system. I hope the SF is in on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155745	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155747	Now it is quite common knowledge from the public debate, from the newspapers and from political life that it is the Radicals who are the main reason why there is no unemployment benefit reform. There was a time when the Radical Left was a very socially committed party. They sprang from the housekeepers, who, after all, had more difficult conditions than the farm owners had. That is why I would like to ask: what does the radical rapporteur say to the radical unemployed who are shaking their heads about the fact that they are not going to reform unemployment benefits during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155829	But here it is important to bear in mind that reforming the benefit system cannot be done with a snap. There must be a strong analysis behind it, and we have set some of the sharpest heads to analyse and make some good suggestions on how to ensure the future of the benefit system. This is entirely in line with social liberal radical thinking, and I think it is actually the SF that is abandoning the unemployed by doing nothing more to ensure the competitiveness of society and by running fear backwards when we need to reform. It doesn't suit SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155914	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120155919	Is the truth not that the Radical Left, with this proposal, is helping to run fear backwards, thus undermining the path of reform? And isn't it really the case that this proposal represents a total division of government? More reforms, says the Radical Left, and then you water down the reforms to hang with the red friends and stick to the taboos. The radical rapporteur speaks of saning in an incalculable system. How does the radical rapporteur feel about introducing the 18th allowance into the system with this cash benefit? Is that a clean-up?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160002	It can be said that it is not the case that we are putting forward the idea that we should re-establish in the context of the Finance Act for 2015. This is where we go in and we have said this from the very beginning and take responsibility for social policy because it is necessary. This is an extraordinary situation in which the economy is still hanging a little, where there is indeed dynamic in the labour market, but where there are still people who have exhausted their benefit rights, who have exhausted their labour market benefits, etc. Then we go in and take social responsibility for a limited group of citizens, but nevertheless a very important responsibility. Then it is that, in parallel with it, we look forward to receiving the recommendations of the Daily Money Commission, where we then go in and look at the whole system. I don't see how the opposite is in it. I also thought that the Conservatives had a social responsibility once, but apparently that's something you've run from.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160102	Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160104	Now the truth is that we take social responsibility as we know that there is a basis for us all in this society, and we stand firm on that, and this is just a matter of giving some extra money to some people and apologizing, before it was called an unintended effect, and now it is an extraordinary situation. But it cannot be the case that when the Radical Left agreed to a reform which reduced the benefit period to two years, it came as a complete surprise to the Radical Left that it meant that no more benefits were paid after two years. Well, it's not an unintended effect. This is something that has been directly poised into and decided with the rest of us, because it was precisely believed that it would be beneficial for the economy to make the reforms and for the benefit of the unemployed to create that growth and that jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160151	That is precisely why we are on the watch for the unemployment benefit reform. We believe that more reforms must be carried out, not fewer reforms, but it is also a question of seeing economic policy in a context. It can be said that the previous government, through the '00s, managed to crowd out a favourable economic situation and turn it into a morass that we have then cleaned up. We have implemented several growth packages, including in cooperation with the Conservatives. So we focus on job creation, we focus on growth and reform, but we will not forget those who have a porous dependency base.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160230	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160243	Three of the bourgeois parties, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, do not care that the unemployed become poor. They do not care that the unemployed are thrown out of the benefit system without having had a fair chance to get a job at a time of 131 000 unemployed. It is an unfair and inhumane way of thinking that is behind that attitude, and that is one of the reasons why. the three bourgeois parties which have introduced a two-year period of money, a proposal which was put forward in 2010 by the Danish People's Party, which has now changed its mind, and by the Radicals, who are stubbornly still standing by that they are a bourgeois party that will not change the daily allowance system to a fair period of daily allowance during this parliamentary term, although society lacks 131,000 jobs. In the SF, we believe that these bourgeois thoughts are unreasonable. We would like to help the unemployed to have fair treatment, and this is primarily about the debate that has been here today by providing a job for the unemployed. I am going to go on a little bit because it has been a forceful part of the debate here. Under the current government and also during the period when the SF has been the governing party, jobs have been created for many unemployed people. This is among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that a whole series of public works that should have been carried out at a later stage has been brought forward, something we need in any case, but they have been brought forward to counter unemployment. That is one example. Another example is the energy agreement that the government, also while SF was part of it, took the initiative and which means that for a number of years there will be somewhere between 4,000 and 8,000 jobs in each of those years. Other examples can also be cited. And when the end result is that almost 200,000 jobs disappeared during the last 2-3 years of the civil government's lifetime, and then during this government over 40,000 have been created in work, significant progress has been made and no one can say that no work has been done to provide jobs. But if it is not possible to get jobs for the individual unemployed, then we in the SF would like to provide greater security, for example. By reclaiming the right to a daily allowance, it will be halved from a full year's work as it is now, to six months' work. It is also a demand by the trade unions, but the Social Democrats and the Radicals in the government unfortunately said no to it, and it hurts, of course. Now I also have to ask you about the time here... 2 minutes back... because the clock doesn't count here. That's not nice. Now it is so that the SF is not an all or no party. We are a party that is working further to improve the conditions for employees and families, and what we could then get through in the financial negotiations is an extension of labour market benefits. Now it is done in the form of a new benefit called cash benefit and it must be paid by the municipalities. We are not in the SF happy that it should be paid by the municipalities. We believe that this should have been quite a natural task for the A-boxes. But we are living with that aspect because we achieved something else that is good and that is that it gives the unemployed an income for a longer period. It is built into the current labour market service that it is gradually phased out. The period which can be granted in addition to the two-year period of the bourgeois allowance simply becomes shorter and shorter, and this means that those who fall out of the benefit period during those months can receive labour market benefits only for nine months. With today's bill, they will receive an extra 3 months on cash benefits, so that their total benefit period on daily allowances, labour market benefits and cash benefits will be 3 years. Those who lose their benefit rights from 6 July and the rest of the year can only receive 6 months' labour market benefit, and then with this bill they will receive 6 months' extra cash benefit, so their benefit period will also be 3 years. In other words, the draft law we are debating now is not the ideal one, but it is a clear step forward in relation to the previous rules and therefore the SF is voting in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160718	Thank you. A single colleague has asked for access to short remarks. It's sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160723	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur. Now we have discussed what the alternative to the mess we have is, and there I would like to hear a little about SF's bid for it. I have previously heard that the SF was in favour of the SF's response to the problems being a two-year benefit period and 1 year labour market benefit plus, of course, an improvement in the right of recovery. Is it really understood that it is SF's bid for a new benefit system?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160803	I'd say no to that mostly. It is true that, in the context of the financial law negotiations, we talked about a third year in which, in the future, a general income was guaranteed, which should be at the level of labour market benefits. But it was based on an assessment of what might be possible in those negotiations, and that could only be done very little, one might say. But what is probably more likely that SF will end up on is that you, for example, are going to end up on. proposes a 3-year benefit period with a full daily allowance rate. One would like it to be even more, but the fact is that it must always be seen in relation to what can be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160843	Sir. Finn Sørensen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160844	Thank you. Thanks for the information. Does the rapporteur think that it will be possible to implement it within the terms of reference given to the Commission on Social Security?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160858	No, it's an impossibility. That is why the mandate says that what the Commission is presenting must be cost-neutral. And, according to SF's assessment, it is not possible to implement an unemployment benefit system with greater security without the need for more money. They can be obtained, by the way, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160931	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120160951	Thank you. Then I'll do it, I'll start my own little stopwatch. The proposal is, of course, the implementation of the financial law agreement with the government and the SF, so of course we support the bill. However, I would like to ask a few questions later, and they come in writing to the proposed sections 32 and 33 concerning the offsetting of a number of benefits in connection with the calculation of pension and early retirement pensions. This is not something we have agreed in the financial law negotiations, so I am surprised that it suddenly appears in this draft law, and immediately we do not feel convinced that we should vote in favour of that part of the bill, but we will have to come back to that later. Everyone knows, of course, that the unemployment allowance issue was one of the major issues in the financial legislation negotiations, as well as it has been high on the agenda ever since the government decided to implement the VKO's serious deterioration in the daily allowance rules, which has meant that approx. Fifty thousand people have so far lost their right to cash benefits, and it seems that this figure will increase to more than 60,000 during that year. Time and again, the Enhedslisten has been protesting against this ever since the elections, and since we took up the first negotiations on this issue, and time and again we have put forward concrete proposals to correct the damage. But the result was also this time too, unfortunately due to the ruthlessness of the government, another patch that then became a patch on a lap. You can't say no to a lap. For a short period, the scheme will help a few thousand people who would otherwise be out of support when they lose their right to benefit and the right to benefit in the labour market, but it is by no means a satisfactory solution in relation to the scale of the problem, namely that thousands of people in those years lose their right to benefit and that it has become so infinitely more difficult to re-establish this right to benefit. These are families and others who, for long periods of time, are suffering a sharp reduction in income, which threatens the ability of the family and the individual to survive in society. We have tried everything in the negotiations: to put the unemployment benefit reform on standby until a new solution was found; to improve the right of return; to improve the possibilities of re-utilizing unemployment benefits at all; to extend labour market benefits; to increase job rotation; and to create better opportunities for training. We also fully agree with the views expressed by the LO and the FTF in their response to the hearing, and we also agree with KL, who is annoyed that there is now another temporary benefit instead of building on one of the existing benefits. This makes the benefit system more incalculable, and KL believes that it threatens citizens' legal certainty and we agree with them. However, it has all been openly rejected by the government... not even a very modest proposal that the new service should be part of the cashier's system, we could get through with. And that is grotesque, because if we look at the costs of introducing this cash benefit, we will see that we could have halved the recovery requirement from one year to six months for the same money. It is incomprehensible that the Social Democratic leadership has so much fallen in love with an unemployment benefit reform that has been so bankrupt, because it has been documented that it does not in any way live up to the toast speeches when it was adopted. We have already seen in this Chamber how few of the many, many thousands who have lost the right to benefit have entered employment. This merely confirms general logic: the unemployed do not get to work because you take some money from them, they get to work if you create some jobs. However, despite this obvious bankruptcy from the unemployment benefit reform, the government will not change as much as a comma in it until we have received a statement from a benefit commission • a commission that has been squashed on its hands and feet. Its recommendations must not lead to increased costs and the recommendations must follow the accounting machine of the Ministry of Finance, which is based on the same deadly logic as the unemployment benefit reform. It is not worth waiting for a report to meet the strict requirements, nor do I think there is much understanding among the many unemployed and employees who feel threatened by this reform. It goes without saying that no viable solution will come out of such a mandate because it means that any improvements at one end of the system will have to be paid with deterioration elsewhere. But that's how the government wants it. That is really a pity, because we could have a very good election campaign if the Social Democrats, like other parties, were to report clearly what kind of unemployment benefit we need. Then perhaps there could even be more chance, than it now seems, of winning such an election campaign. Four minutes and 50 seconds!
ParlaMint-DK_20150120161447	It is good that the rapporteur himself is following in time, thank you for that. No one has asked for access to short remarks, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance, who also has his own stopwatch. That's amazing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120161504	Thank you. We are dealing with a bill here, which is the result of the Finance Act that the government concluded with SF and Enhedslisten. We are dealing with the introduction of a whole new transfer income in Denmark. Creativity of the Social Democratic Party has always been great when it comes to finding new benefits for citizens, and it has also worked; it has been a great success • 750,000 citizens of working age in Denmark are on transfer income, 2.1 million Danes in total. No welfare society in the western world has achieved such great results when it comes to placing citizens outside the labour market on a life of public support, where you are not master of your own life and we have excelled in that in Denmark. It's had consequences. We were once one of the richest countries in the world. We're still gone, but we've fallen down the rankings. When this government arrived, we were the eleventh richest country in the world, measured by GDP per head. resident, now we are the twentieth richest country in the world. The unique position Denmark has had is one of the things that makes Denmark a great country, that is, that we are prosperous, but the basis for it is slipping. Although this is a small bill, it is a bill that draws in that direction, towards the deterioration of Denmark's prosperity, which has been going on over many years, a bill that spends 1 billion. kr. to have people on transfer income, and that billion could instead have been spent on investment in research, on reducing some of the taxes that damage our productivity and thus our prosperity. It is, of course, a political priority chosen here, but it is a political priority with which we very much disagree, and that is why we cannot, of course, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120161713	Thank you. No one has asked for access to short remarks, so thank the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120161731	Both the National Association of Municipalities and the social workers point out that our system of benefits is quite complex, and now it becomes even more complex and even less transparent, both for the citizens and for the case workers. This is the 18th benefit in the series of benefits received. 18th, yes! Moreover, unfortunately, this is a step in the wrong direction in relation to the unemployment benefit reform, which we are, of course, a large majority in this House who have made and which has helped to create growth and employment, but which, unfortunately, is being watered down time and again by the government and thus not being allowed to have its full effect. The proposal here must be an expression of the total division that exists in the government. On the one hand, there is the Radical Left, which repeatedly speaks of more reforms and more reform, and on the other hand, there are the Social Democrats and friends on the left who do not really want these reforms. That is why it is two steps forwards and one backwards and another backwards, and that is really a pity, because it means that the unemployment benefit reform is not allowed to work; it means that the growth and employment that the unemployment benefit reform could have created is being undermined time and again, and this means that our benefit system is becoming more complicated once again. We do not think this is appropriate. We would rather make reforms that were allowed to last. In fact, we thought that would be the case, since we were actually doing this benefit reform by a broad majority across the blocks. This was not the case, and we see this once again with this proposal, which we cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120161923	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. And the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is not a rapporteur but a minister. It's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120161936	May I start by signing for an exciting, intense debate, to which there could of course be many comments, but I think that I will try to deal at least in the first place with the draft law that we are discussing here today. And there I could at least listen to the fact that, in addition to thanking the governing parties and the Enhedslisten and the SF, with whom we have made the agreement, I could also thank the Danish People's Party. At the risk of missing something along the way, I can say that I registered two questions about the bill. One was from Mr. Finn Sørensen, and Finn Sørensen himself said that it might be more suitable for a committee procedure. I did not quite catch it on the move either, which is why I would just like to say that we must do what we can to deal with it in committee. The second specific question I heard was from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, who, like Charlotte Dyremose here, expressed that it might be a little complicated, and asked if there is an overview of it out there. And then he asked more specifically whether we are going to send out guidance material that will enable those who are going to work with this to understand it; and of course I can assure you that we will. So I think I can only say that with this bill we will ensure that from 2015 with the temporary cash benefits we give a helping hand for a period of less than 3 years to people who have exhausted their total benefits. And I think that is one of the good things that was derived from the financial bill debate that we have just been through and where we have had some legislative proposals in my area, and this is, as far as I remember, the last in the line of those who come after the Finance Act. So I would just like to thank the rapporteurs who have said that they support it. I will ensure that what concerns the legislative proposal itself is dealt with quickly and effectively by my side in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162137	Thank you. For the time being, two colleagues have asked for access to short remarks, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162143	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. Now I used part of my rapporteur's speech to be rather critical of government policy in this area. On the other hand, I would like to use my brief remark to just sign for the excellent cooperation we have had on the drafting of the legislative proposal. There is just a small curl on what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, and we will come back to that. Then I agree with the Minister that this has been an exciting discussion. It could be even more exciting if the Minister were to reveal what the Minister is really thinking about a new benefit system. Now I'm not so naive that I think I'm getting the answer to that question... but the Minister may very much disappoint me, of course. I would like to ask another question: does the Minister believe that a new benefit system, which is satisfactory and provides good security for the unemployed, can be dealt with within the financial framework set out in the mandate given to the Commission by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162248	May I start by saying to Mr. Knox? Finn Sørensen, that I would like to take part in debates at any time both about what is short, right here and now, and about what is pointing forward, including the benefit system. I then chose not to do so in connection with the examination of a specific legislative proposal, which I think everything else has to be said to be a corner of this. I would like to say that when it comes to a new benefit system, I am concerned with several different things. But if there is to be any headline, then it is that I am primarily concerned that we are now getting a well-worked product from the Commission, which is of course widely set up and which I have had the opportunity to follow along the way, not by interfering, but by getting some comments back on the fact that there is going to be proper and serious work on it. I believe that what comes out of it is a proposal which we will then have to deal with politically. My approach to this is that I will work hard to ensure that, when we get there, we have a robust benefit system, but certainly also a benefit system that has more security in it, as do the benefit system we know today. And then it has to be something that has been properly worked out, and that is what the Commission has to deliver. And then it is very natural that the Commission has been given the mandate it has, and then it is after all that political decisions have to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162406	Sir. Finn Sørensen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162408	Thank you. I didn't really get an answer to my question, so I guess I'll have to try again. After all, it sounds very positive that the Minister wants a new system of benefits that is more robust and where there is greater security for employees. We can only agree on that. My question is whether this can be resolved within the financial framework within which the benefit commission has been given to work. That is the crucial question. At first sight, I would have thought that the Minister would just say yes, otherwise the Commission would not have been given the mandate. So now I would like a yes or no to my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162451	It is the usual political trick with a yes or a no, but politics is not that easy, and Mr. Finn Sørensen about someone. I think it should be noted what kind of signals have been sent, including on the part of the government, about the benefit commission. In fact, I think it is quite a good answer when I, but also the Prime Minister and others, have said that what needs to come out of a Commission work is a more robust and more secure system. In fact, I think that is some very clear signals. Then I agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen in that it will then be possible to discuss what the two positively charged words cover up, and that is something we will have to discuss. There should be no doubt about that. There is nothing at all wrong with me in saying that a mandate is designed as it is. And that is exactly the way it is, and I would like to repeat that, once the Commission has delivered its work, it is subsequently the case that politicians have to take up the glove, and then they have to design a benefit system which, as I said, is robust and which has more security in it than the present one. And whether this can be done within one economy or another is difficult to answer today. But there should be no doubt that our starting point, my starting point, is that it can be dealt with in the current economy. And let me say that when I just look at the opportunities and potentials that are for debureaucratisation, they are relatively large.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162608	Thank you. The provisional last person who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Eigil Andersen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162613	When the daily allowance commission has been given the task of doing something that is cost-neutral, and at the same time we think that the Social Democratic Party wants improvements to the daily allowance system that will cost some money, it logically means that some other places within the benefit system will have to be cut. This is not something that we are in favour of in the SF, but I would like to ask the Minister what his thoughts are about, where should the benefit system be cut now, in order to get the money for the improvements that I have understood the Social Democrats want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162649	Now it is the second experienced parliamentary politician who is trying to say: can we now move some steps further along a path that we do not know today? That is why I think it is the right method of working chosen by the government, namely, as paragraph 1, to say: the system we have today is not good enough. Many rapporteurs have said many things along the way, so I do not need to go into that again. Paragraph 2 is to say that now we must have something that is proper and well worked out. We find a competent and skilful chairman of the Commission who wants to have rich representation of the parties, those who are committed to this whole question, and ask them to bring forward a new, thoroughly worked-out proposal in the vast area of unemployment benefits, including in relation to debureaucratisation, transparency and so on. Then there are a number of issues on which we can all discuss and have opinions right now. I feel a bit like that, sir. Eigil Andersen, that I would be reluctant to go into detail now that I have asked a commission with such competence to deliver something already in September, and therefore I am sending out some clear signals, as I did with my question to Mr. Finn Sørensen, but also on other occasions, and I will maintain that I will do so, but when we come in September and have received the report on the work of the Commission, then there will be enough for you and me and all the other politicians to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162811	Sir. Eigil Andersen, second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162814	Yeah, you don't have to go to school for so many years to hear that this is where the corner gets kicked. The case will be postponed. There's not really gonna be an answer to that. What does the Minister actually say to the voters, the unemployed and the Socialists who are disappointed that four years have now passed of this parliamentary term, when this problem of the unemployment benefit system has been urgent? What does the Minister say to those who then say: it is simply too bad that nothing happens to it during this parliamentary term, four years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162850	I think somewhere along the way, I'm saying the same thing as Mr. Eigil Andersen says to his hinterland, because there's the liberating thing about this that Mr. Eigil Andersen and I have gone into this with our eyes open. We have, of course, together been involved in formulating a government basis, we have sat together in a government until a period ago, and we have been happy together every time we, for example. in connection with the Finance Act has been able to repair this system. Together we have agreed that that system was not good enough and that is why we would have changed it and set up a Commission, but we have also recognised what the political reality was. So there's mr. Eigil Andersen and I basically sufferers in the way of discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162933	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak on this matter at all, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120162953	The debate is open. The first rapporteur on the platform is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163015	This government bill aims to repeal the revision clause introduced by the 2009 amendment to the law with the introduction of the Permanent Founding Councils. In the 2012 evaluation by the Ministry of Church Affairs or in the 1544 report, or in the consultation responses to the report, there has been no definite desire or need to change the current regime for the permanent governing bodies, either in terms of composition, electoral rules, competences or tasks. This is also not the case in the consultation responses to the present draft law. Against this background, the Left can support the bill. For the Left, it has always been, and remains, very important that responsibility for local congregational life lies with the church council. The foundation of the entire church must be the parish congregations. The formation councils must support this and not take over parts of this competence. It is gratifying that the Councils have lived up to this. If, or when, at some point, requests from the ecclesiastical landscape for changes and/or improvements regarding the functioning of the governing councils are made, the Left will always be prepared to take a positive view of such requests. As I said, the Left can support the bill. I must inform the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Mette Bock, that the Liberal Alliance can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163135	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for access to short remarks. That is why we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Karen J. Klint from the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163148	Thank you. It is, of course, nice to have such legislative proposals from time to time, which have been sent out to so many consultation parties, that even the individual church council has had the opportunity to say something. Then you cannot say that you have not asked a certain number of citizens, because we have a few thousand congregational councils. This also shows that the draft law here is quite small, since it is not so many answers that have come in. It is a question of abolishing a review because there are now some things that have been laid down, and if we are going to change the law then we can always regulate it if there is a need for some changes. Some points are pointed out in one of the consultation responses, among others. in electoral forms. This does not really concern this bill, but there is nothing to say about the fact that we are using the opportunity to say that there are some other things we would still like to have looked at when we can once agree to look at it, because we might have looked at some of the things if there had been a willingness to implement what is in the government's constitution to come together with a more transparent and forward-looking structural model for the organisation of the people's church. However, there was no agreement on this, but there is agreement that this small bill should go through without the long speaking time. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they are voting in favour, and so are the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163307	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163315	I have a feeling this is going to go a little fast. Well, let me say straight away that we voted in favour of the legislation on rigid councils in 2009, although we probably had some critical remarks about it. And that is still true, but it is not just about this very small bill, which is simply about lifting a review clause which was postponed due to the reform of the Church. But I would still like to take this opportunity to say what I am critical of. So, first of all, it is crucial that it is the parish congregations and the church council that are at the heart, and the author of the Church of the Left mentioned so well, so I can quite agree with that. And I don't really know what the hell was going on with that superstructure, but peace is going to be with it. What is then worrying is, of course, that some powers have been put into the founders' councils, and what has then worried me is that those powers were actually extended in 2012 because the Council of the Founders of Copenhagen was rather self-appointed, I would say that it gave itself to appoint churches for closure. And it was, of course, a matter that was very much taken up by me, because I have always been of the observation that it must be the church councils themselves that close their churches, that is, if they are to be closed, it must be done with the agreement of the church council. So it's always the case, when you set up these councils, that there's a kind of knobfire where they're suddenly going to deal with something that no one had thought about when they were set up, and that's also true of the rigid councils. But that is something that we must discuss on a regular basis, i.e. whether we believe that the Councils are the right solution. So we will at least vote in favour of this lifting of the review clause, and then we will see what the time brings and what the discussions are going to be, because it is not the founding councils that we are discussing in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163550	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is from the SF, and that is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163609	Sorry I'm late. I just had the impression that perhaps another party's rapporteur should come first, but we can then come back to that. I have to say in all simplicity that the SF supports the lifting of the review clause in relation to the permanentisation of rigid councils. We think that the experience with the governing council is quite excellent, and can see how it works in practice in the Danish National Church. And we are very pleased that the Danish National Church has independent, democratically elected bodies that can handle the affairs of the church.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163648	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The reason for the slight confusion was that the Radical Left has announced their support for the bill via the rapporteur for the Socialists, and that is why it was the rapporteur for the SF who was invited to the platform. And now we welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163705	Thank you very much. After all, it is a question of repealing a review clause in a 2009 law. I think it highlights how much we, as politicians, interfere in one faith, namely the Evangelical Lutheran faith or the church of the people. I can't believe we have decided things down to the detail of the state church's economy and organisation. In the 2009 Act, we decided that permanent foundation councils should be established. You might think that about what you want, but it's about an association where we should have an arm's length principle. After all, this 2009 law is about cutting off your arm at the top of your shoulder. I think we should all think very carefully here in the Folketing. As you probably know, I and Enhedslisten are in favour of separating the church from the state, and this law underlines how much you will do to interfere with this union. I am very much wondering how much time we need to spend on the economy and organisation of the people's church. I think it reminds me of some sort of Stalinism with the use of state law to suppress people's opinions and beliefs. We know that not least the Ministry of Churches has spent time and effort evaluating the permanent governing bodies and the famous 1544 report. After all, we have had a debate on the economy of the people's church on the basis of the report, but nothing came of that. It is a form of conservative thinking which does not want to solve the social parts of the church's tasks relating, among others, to. naming, marriage and death from the church. But apart from that, I do not think we should use this bill to interfere more in the church's finances. Against this background, I would like to say that we can abstain from voting on this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163850	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120163859	Now I didn't intend to say much, but I'm tempted to say that it's very good that, precisely because we have this very beautiful arrangement, one listens so carefully to the church itself when one makes the kind of adjustments that this is expressing. This is why the revision clause, which is a very small thing, is being removed, also on the basis of various forms of involvement of the church's own people, and it is therefore not just something that is going on in here completely blindly. The only thing I intended to say goes a little in that direction, because we support this proposal, and we do not see a desire to make major, substantial changes to the governing councils in the people's church landscape, so it goes very well in order to remove the revision clause. What we might perhaps have wished for was, on the one hand, that the evaluation that has been carried out had actually been more closely involved in the Councils, since it is the foundation of the church, and, on the other hand, that the committee work which has been carried out in the report 1544 has also been written in the report itself, which had given more time to go down in this part of the mandate, such a more fundamental one. We would have liked to have had the time and space to do so, for it might have provided an even better basis for considering the rigid councils. However, as I have said, there has also been no desire to do a whole lot differently in the course of the hearing, and that is why we see it quite appropriate, now that we have had time to look at how things worked in the ecclesiastical landscape, that we then remove the revision clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120164048	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the Minister, and that is, of course, in this context, the minister of the church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120164058	Thank you. I would like to sign for the very precise announcement by all the rapporteurs and for the approval of the draft law. I would just like to emphasise that I think it is central to the comments made by some of the rapporteurs that we have carried out a consultation of this draft law, which is very simple in its content. In that hearing 12 hearing responses have been received from the bishops, the Founding Parliaments, the Founding Councils, the Church Councils, the Provsti Committees, the National Association of Congregation Councils, the Danish Provence Association and the Association of Priests, and common to all of them is that they either agree to the bill or have no comment on it. I think this shows a degree of thoroughness in ensuring that all relevant parties are consulted, and here everyone has been consulted. That is why I would like to sign up for the speedy procedure in this Chamber, and I look forward to having a quick procedure in the Committee on Churches as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120164203	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120164217	The first rapporteur on the platform is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120164240	Thank you. Bill No. L 110 is a follow-up to the recommendations of the match fixing regulation working group. It is a working group set up by the Minister of Culture back in 2013. The working group has looked at the existing rules on match fixing and assessed what it takes to strengthen our fight against one of the greatest monsters of sport, namely the manipulation of sports competitions, that is, what we call match fixing on a daily basis. With the bill, the current law on the promotion of doping-free sport will change its name to the law on the promotion of integrity in sport. The law will be extended and will henceforth contain both the fight against doping and match fixing in the world of sport. Specifically, in L 110, the government proposes criminalising grosser cases of bribery in sport. The bill will also make the fight against match fixing a subsidy requirement for sports organisations allocated funds under the Distribution Act. The draft law should also provide a framework for a platform for coordination and cooperation in combating the manipulation of sports competitions. Finally, it is also a matter of enforcing the law on equations, following the criminalisation of grosser cases of bribes in sport. This is one of the legislative proposals that I wish were not necessary to deal with here in the Folketing. It is not because I do not think it is important, but because it is of course a pity that it is necessary at all. Match fixing, as I mentioned before, is one of the monsters that has emerged, and therefore it is also necessary that we focus on this in our work at Christiansborg. In recent years, the Danish sports world has been shaken by several different cases of agreed games. Back in August we were shaken by the charge of match fixing in Danish football. Six people were charged with having been involved in match fixing of two matches in Danish division football. So the match fixing threat has come very close. We were once again shocked when, in December, the media could bring an article about a young tennis talent who had been offered money in connection with a tennis tournament. These examples are a serious threat to the integrity of sport, and that is why we must do something about it politically too. It is a fundamental value in the world of sport that one can be confident that one can watch as a spectator a battle in which the result has not been agreed in advance. We must ensure that value. The draft law is based on recommendations from those who have worked on sport in everyday life. These are the people who have the best idea of what to do, and therefore I also have confidence in the recommendations made by the working group. It is always important for us politicians to listen to those who are out in reality outside the thick walls of Castle. It is very important that we in Denmark address the problem, but it is also crucial that we bring the international community with us. The problem cannot be solved within Denmark's borders alone, and I therefore hope that the Minister will do his part to ensure that the problem is raised again and again in international contexts. It is essential that we stand together in the cross-border fight. In the Left, we are in favour of the draft law, as I have said, because we believe that it is very important that efforts are made to combat match fixing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120164650	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur from the Left. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120164701	Thank you. We have recently seen several examples of match fixing being a problem that also exists in Denmark. For example, the search light has... was aimed at football, tennis and badminton. Therefore, it is also important that we take effective action against the ticking bomb, as agreed games are, during our elite sport. We were among the first countries to sign the Council of Europe Convention on Match Fixing. Denmark's Sports Association has been promoted with a common set of rules covering the whole of sport, and with this bill we are now taking another step to prepare ourselves to combat match fixing. This is contrary to the values of all sport, for example. a football match is not determined by who is best, has trained the most and is best at working together as a team, but that instead the fight is determined by which shady people can earn the most from influencing the result after 90 minutes. Match fixing simply undermines the integrity of sport, damages the credibility of sport, and ultimately crumbles the whole foundation of elite sport if the public's interest is lost. Because just as one rarely wants to watch a movie when one already knows the end, how many would go to the stadium to watch a game that is settled before the ball is given up? The proposal contains several parts which I would like to present briefly. Firstly, we criminalise cases of bribery in sport. Here we distinguish between whether bribery takes place in, for example. Super League or Series 6. This means that in future you will be able to receive a fine or as much as two years' imprisonment if you give or receive a bribe in the Superliga, while a judge in Serie 6 will not be covered by the law if he accepts 500 kroner. and a box of beer to be too diligent to whistle for punishment in a local showdown. Secondly, in future, we will make it a condition for sports organisations receiving legal subsidies to introduce and enforce rules to combat match fixing, just as we are already doing in the area of doping. Thirdly, we are creating a national platform to coordinate the fight against match fixing. It is the view of the Socialists that the proposal is a clear strengthening of efforts to combat agreed games in the sports world, which is why we can, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120164936	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur on the platform is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. This is Mrs Karin Nødgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120164949	In general, we must say that engaging in the world of sport is positive. This applies both to those who are very active practitioners at either elite or broad level, those who may not get so much sport and who may be more watching and enjoying the performance of others, for example. from the sidelines to a football or handball game, at home on the couch, where you follow major or minor sporting events, national or international, or a single athlete that is fascinated by its performance. They may also be those who engage as managers at different levels and on both paid and voluntary basis. There are also parents' joys in seeing the pulses unfolding from the first shots on the football field until they may become part of the elite. Sports are often connected with leisure and social gatherings... something none of us can spare. Being part of a community is something quite unique, and through the ages we have all more or less got a larger part of our interface through the world of sport and see the great joy of being part of a sports association or sports club. As a start to the discussions on this bill, we should be able to ask: why is it really necessary to put it on the agenda? Isn't that shooting gray sparrows with guns etc.? Unfortunately, the world today is simply arranged so that some people or organisations have found a way to harass sport for the sake of poor mammon. There is no doubt that the original values on which sport is based must be fought to preserve and ensure that they continue to form the basis for all forms of sport, regardless of level, to ensure that children and young people are attracted to sport because of the many positive aspects that exist when exercising, are social in nature and thus improve the quality of life. The fact that many people around the world have a great interest in playing sports results is nothing new. Bets have always existed and just developed in line with improved platforms therefore. Unfortunately, there are just some who cannot and I would like to put the floor only in quotation marks • just playing legally in relation to the law. We are seeing more and more examples of the fact that games have been agreed, that the results have been agreed in advance. At one point it was primarily in Asia that it took place, but today we can see that it has exceeded national borders and it is now a worldwide problem and a challenge for all countries to tackle match fixing. Although we in Denmark have been attentive and we have seen that Denmark's Sports Association drew up a regulation which covers sport very early, there is no doubt that legislation in this area is necessary in Denmark. Therefore, the Danish People's Party is in favour of criminalising bribery in sport. We would, however, like the Minister to elaborate on how support for sports organisations is intended to be withheld in practice and how this will affect, for example. a small sports club where only a few members have manipulated sports competitions. The Danish People's Party has found it very important that a working group has been set up that has looked at the whole area and has subsequently made recommendations, precisely recommendations which have then been incorporated into the bill. The Danish People's Party supports legislative action, as we believe that this is the opportunity that we have in Denmark to make ours to ensure fair competition, and that it is not until the last second that a sports competition is settled. We believe that it is important to tighten up legislation, that illegal gambling and bribery have consequences that can be felt and that it must never be worth manipulating sports competitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120165313	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur on the platform is Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120165321	When I'm going to cheer on the Danish handball masters tonight, or when I'm standing in the stadium, freezing and cheering at SønderjyskE, it's a basic requirement for my commitment that I know that the team I'm with is doing their best and that their opponents are doing the same. If we knew in advance what the outcome of the fight would be, and if everything had been agreed in advance, most of us would not want to see sports matches and engage us. Therefore, underhand agreements about the outcome of the fight, the performance of individual players and the decisions of the judge are completely undermining the premise of the sports match, namely that athletes give everything they can and master and that they do everything they can to win. That is why I am very pleased that in general in the world there has been a greater focus on match fixing and the agreed game, and that we in Denmark have been at the forefront. Not least, the Danish Sports Association has been very exemplary in their fight against this problem. With today's bill, we are taking another step towards showing and insisting that sport is about performance and the will for victory and not all sorts of other things that some might think were more important. With this bill, we are stepping up our efforts to combat manipulation by criminalising grosser cases of bribery, and we are making it a prerequisite for sports organisations to receive subsidies to combat the manipulation of sports competitions. Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120165504	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur on the platform is the SF's rapporteur. It's Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120165513	As has been said several times here from the platform today, most of us probably know the feeling of taking part in a fair fight. It is, whether you are on the field yourself, whether we are watching the teams directly in the stadium or in the hall, or we are watching it on television. There is the pleasure of following the talented athletes who really go to it in a fair fight, and then the totally unbearable excitement that can be when the battle is first decided in the very last minutes. We know about the handball these days. We would like to see a good and fair fight. Then there's also the joy when the team you're cheering on actually goes to win the fight. We all know about the fact that we won. And if the team lost, then they lost. It's like match fixing that's where we're all gonna lose. And that's why it's a pretty important law that we're presenting here today, because a lot of Danes, besides playing the field, also regularly play on the results of those sports competitions, and it doesn't matter if it's on a tips coupon, whether it's Oddset, or if you're sitting in friends' layers and tips on who's gonna win tonight. Sports competitions and matches actually bring a daily joy. This leads to some good discussions with friends, and then it helps to maintain the great interest, which fortunately there are too many different sports. In the world of sport, we also like to talk about virtues. It is virtues such as fair struggle, noble rivalry, and in fact sport is also about free people meeting in an equal fight. Unfortunately, however, it has been the case sometimes in recent years that we are at least aware that there have been match fixing, agreed games, and of course we will not be involved in that. There was one of the other speakers who mentioned that the match-fix animal had stuck its head out, and I have to say that it is a question of whether the animal has been there all along and that we have just not been aware of it. But now we are aware of it, and now is the time to take action against it. It is a growing problem for sports organisations and associations to get betting providers on sports competitions. In several cases, there have been situations where athletes have allegedly received money from foreign gaming syndicates to ensure a special outcome of a match. I have seen here today that there is a case in the media that is running now that the DIF now wants to take up a case. There is also the example of two young badminton players who, I think, courageously go out and say that they have been contacted. That's one of the things that helps to make sure we know about this corrupt way of going to sports. This is contrary to the values of sport, but it can also help people simply lose interest in sport. So we in the SF are very pleased that the Danish Sports Association has been offensive on the field with a common set of rules covering the whole of sport, just as we find it very positive that Denmark signed the Council of Europe match fixing convention in September. However, concrete changes are also needed in this area to ensure active action against match fixing. This was the conclusion of the match fixing report presented by a working group in the autumn. The draft law takes the step of simply criminalising more serious cases of bribery in sport, and that would, of course, allow us to punish match fixing, even in cases where it is not a question, for example, of the fact that it is not possible to do so. the loss of wealth and, therefore, there can be no penalty for fraud. So it will be a prerequisite for sports organisations to receive subsidies that they combat match fixing. It also allows the Minister for Culture to establish a platform for coordinating the fight against match fixing. This means quite specifically that if a Danish football player takes the payment for losing or paying others, he or she must be able to be punished in a court of law. I think that is fair, and it is an important signal to send to both sportsmen and sportsmen. So the SF is happy to support the proposed proposal and hope that it will help maintain interest in sport and strengthen the integrity of sport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120170002	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120170014	This is a match fixing bill, which is part of today's sport. One should know that this means that a large part of elite sport is threatened by an undermining by the backers of match fixing. I think that this bill is a good step towards combating this manipulation of sports competitions. But if I am to be honest, there is a long way to go in the fight against match fixing. We know that, unfortunately, a very large proportion of the sponsors operate internationally. Just as an example we were told that two young badminton players, who were offered an offer to lose a match, said that the match fixer came from Malaysia, they said no, and they should be commended for that. Is there anything we can do about it? No, we can't. I think we should work internationally to get hold of and punish those who are destroying our sport as a competition, which means that spectators lose interest in who wins or loses. But I think it's okay that with this bill we can now punish those who use bribery to manipulate a fight or a competition. It is, after all, a continuation of Article 279 of the Criminal Code on fraud. Fraud is financial crime and bribery must be criminal and have a prison sentence of up to 1 year and a penalty of up to 2 years if it is gross. After all, it is a good thing that we are now trying to contain match fixing and criminalising bribery, and, following on from that, it is also good that sports organisations must meet the Council of Europe's demands to avoid manipulation in sport. Furthermore, the draft law also provides a secretariat for a national platform for coordinating the fight against match fixing. I think this is a very important step and, according to the draft law, the Minister is authorised to define the platform. I would like to ask the Minister whether we, as rapporteurs, are not also involved in this. Finally, I would like to add that we have seen some examples of Danish Games closing their eyes to games that could be manipulated. For example, we have had some games on teams, although they have been under strong suspicion of match fixing. I think we should look at how Danske Games uses their power to promote these games. With these comments, I can support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120170253	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120170303	Thank you. It is really a pity that we have to stand here today and praise a bill which ought to be extremely superfluous, because the nature of sport is that you are part of a competition and it is the nature of sport and then will win. It should not actually be disturbed by other factors or other forces, i.e. because it lies in the nature of sport. Fortunately, this is always the case. We have all taken the view that it was particularly in professional sport that there would be problems in being offered money to do something specific, for example. the opposite of what is actually intended, namely to lose on purpose. And there are several factors that may influence it may be the players, and it may be the referee, but it is actually against the nature of the sport that it takes place at all. We believe that this is happening in the upper layers, but that is probably not the case, because in the end it is the money that determines whether you are willing to compromise with what is really the nature of sport and what you are on the field and are taking part in the fight for, namely by doing the opposite of what is expected. It's devastating, it's really devastating for sport. None of us wants to participate in it, if you know it is going on like that, or if you are watching an athletic game where it is other than the noble rivalry, you can say that determines the outcome. So it is really bad for sport to get there, that it is necessary to do so here, but unfortunately we have to see that action is necessary. Apparently it must be because when it is possible in the professional sport it is so that there is more money to be made by losing than there is about to win, and in the lower ranks it may be that there is money in just doing the opposite. And then it can be said that the very worst thing is that the judges who are set to be neutral umpires are actually acting in a way that can produce a certain result that is different. So, in fact, although I would also like to express satisfaction with the Minister for Culture's bill following on from the work of the working group that has been sitting, I would like to say that it is indeed a pity that we have come where necessary. Of course, we should welcome the fact that the Danish Sports Association has taken care of this problem and has started to oppose it. However, the fact that we have come to where it is necessary to have a legislative proposal in which sport must be threatened with their subsidies in order to deal with this is a pity. One can wonder for a long time whether it is because there is too much money in the system or what it is that leads us to get into this situation. Given the nature of sport, the life of association and the view of freedom that lies in it, I have to say that it is, after all, a long way from liberal thinking that we are going to get there at all. So I regret a little more than I look forward to today, but we support the bill in the name of necessity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120170629	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr Conservatives. Brian Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120170639	I would like to start by commending the Minister for Culture for a good initiative. The point is that a complete zero tolerance is needed in relation to match fixing. Match fixing, as most of the rapporteurs have also said, is destructive to the whole view of sport as a healthy competition, sport as a place where you meet, fight, fight, play to achieve the best result, without the constant aim of making an economic gain afterwards by making yourself worse or by letting some other things happen that should not take place in a natural competition. If there is matching, you lose legitimacy and support for sport. That is why it is a rescue operation that we are currently engaged in, and therefore also the praise to the Minister for Culture that we are helping to save sports and Danish sport in this case. We need to tighten up our efforts, we need a complete zero tolerance, as I mentioned earlier, but we also need a greater political focus on it. It comes with the proposal here, which comes after sensible committee work. I think you could have looked at a few elements that could have made the efforts here better and stronger. One element would be to say that closer cooperation was established with the Ministry of Justice, so that the police were instructed to have some special people working with this. It's a good thing we've had a paragraph change made. This means that the police give it a higher priority, and it also means that there will certainly be intensified action in this area. But my experience in this area is that it is only when you say from a political point of view that you have to give priority to this when you say politically that you have to make sure you allocate some resources to it, that the police really want to use their powers to do so. So that dialogue with the Ministry of Justice is very important to tell them that this is an important matter, which all the parties of the Danish Parliament are behind, and therefore the police should also pay attention to it and devote a special unit to it. We have many other areas, and we should also be able to do so in this area. It will also be able to help solve it in a decisive way. I also think that we should send out a signal that there should be life spans for all practitioners involved in match fixing, simply life span, out with them, they do not have access to sport again, because it sends out the wrong signal to see the same people go out and through the door in connection with the world of sport and sport. But summa summarum: I think that is a good suggestion. This is clearly moving in the right direction and will help to solve some of the challenges we have in this area. After all, they are not disappearing with this proposal, and that is why police action is so important, and that is why it is important that more resources are allocated within the police force to this area. That is also why it is important that we look at how the courts operate in this area. It is often the case that when you look at the courts, some of them have some special functions. Here one might consider that a court in a particular area would be responsible for these cases when they arise, and they occur all the time in the world of football, the tennis world, the badminton world, in a variety of different sports. And there it is important that we now and here in Parliament signal that we are united in the fight against match fixing to save sport, both in Denmark and in the outside world. So we support the proposal from the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120171012	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've reached the Minister of Culture. Here you go, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120171022	Thank you. Thank you for the very good and positive comments which I think everyone in this Chamber can endorse. I agree with Mr. Leif Mikkelsen in his introduction that it is regrettable that we are going to take the steps that L 110 is now proposing. I think we all share that regret. It is totally destructive and intrusive to the whole world of sports if this goes beyond what we have already noted. This, together with doping, is one of the major problems for Danish sport right now, and not just Danish sport, but international sport. That is why I think we should also be glad that we are able to act as quickly as we do, both internationally, where the Council of Europe has taken up the theme and we have signed the convention here in September last year. We have also had a working group sitting for two years, which then delivered their bid at the end of September last year. What's good in this context is that there's so many different people working at the same time on the same types of problems and with the same attitudes, namely to prevent and combat match fixing. And what is interesting here is that there are countries outside the Council of Europe that would actually like to join, also to sign a convention which they are not obliged to sign when they are not part of the Council of Europe's own country. Australia and Canada. It is also interesting that there is some agreement that we take it up with South-East Asian countries when we are together with their ministers in the field of sport. It happens at times that we are doing so and that we take every opportunity to explain, in international contexts where we are in relevant forums, the European position on combating match fixing. When I stress this here, it is because we know that there will be a lot of inspiration and initiatives, if you can call it match fixing from countries from the east, and that means from Asia to Europe as well. The rapporteurs have very well described what initiatives the draft law is about, and what is really new in it is that we criminalise bribery. So far, bribery has only been punishable by bribing a public servant, but now we have extended the definition of bribery crime to include cheating, bribing other people to cheat in sport. And, as has also been said by the rapporteurs, there is both a one-year penalty framework and a two-year penalty framework when it is particularly harsh. It is also interesting, I think, that it is agreed in the working group that it is necessary to deal with sports organisations. They only receive their subsidies, which they usually receive under the distribution law, when they introduce and enforce the rules to combat the manipulation of sports competitions. Mrs Karin Nødgaard asked how it really should be administered. I do not intend to describe this here, but I think it is an entirely relevant question for us and for the sports organisations themselves in order to clarify it. That is why I would like to take the initiative to describe the way in which we intend to control this. So we will come back to that, and we will do so in committee, and I will see to it that it comes over with reference to the fact that the issue has been raised here at first reading. At the same time as the two things I have just mentioned here, we have authorised the Minister of Culture to set up a secretariat we also call it a national platform; that is the term it has in the international context for combating match fixing. And that platform will be occupied by representatives of the Public Prosecutor for Special Economic and International Crime and game providers, i.e. Danske Game and the like, and sports organizations, and the Ministry of Culture is sitting there as a kind of ropekeeper in that circle. And when it is arranged in this way, it is precisely to do so, as Mr. Brian Mikkelsen actually appeals to us to ensure that there are resources for the police to go in and that something quite concrete is done about it. So these are the actors who together can shed light on and investigate the cases that are being discovered and that must be responded to. I also agree that this requires resources from the police. And I can only inform you that I have had the opportunity to discuss this also with the Attorney General for Special Economic Crime, who attended the press conference in which the organisations involved in this matter presented the proposals of the working group, and the police are fully aware that it is a very high priority politically, and are therefore also prepared and believe that it is serious and would like to contribute to it. So I'm just suggesting that we follow how things are going and deal with it. I think that the sports rapporteurs who are behind the bill here and who are also behind the sport agreement from last spring simply agree with each other that we are following this continuously and discussing it, and we can also take a meeting with the Public Prosecutor for Special Economic Crime to hear how the police are actually working on it. Then I would like to conclude by saying that we are introducing rules on match fixing into the same law that regulates doping. In fact, it makes very good sense, I think, because both doping and match fixing are two harmful agents for sport. Both are also international phenomena. One can say that it represents the shadow side of sport, and both are basically about ethics, morality and integrity in sport. That is why I think we should also bear in mind that we are correcting this from the law on the promotion of doping-free sport to the law on the integrity of sport. We must therefore get used to using a word as integrity, but it is also a very good word to take hold of and let all athletes relate to the fact that they are now part of those who are responsible for integrity. This means that the deepest possible values for sport lie in integrity. That is where we can recognise sport, and if it is not present, it is not the sport that we call sport today. Finally, I would like to say that I heard Mrs Anni Matthiesen ask how we are picking up internationally, but I have actually answered that, and I hope that is enough. Then Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr says that the rapporteurs will be involved in the establishment of the platform for the various players we are talking about in the fight against match fixing and are also present. Of course, I will ensure that sports rapporteurs are kept informed and involved in how we implement the legislation. So we'll follow up on that as well. I look forward to continued good treatment of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120171819	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. No one has asked for access to short remarks, and since no one has asked for the floor at all, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150120171836	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 21 January 2015, at 9.00 p.m. 13.00. And as always, I will refer to the agenda that appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
