ParlaMint-DK_20150508100001	The meeting is open. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: report and recommendation amending the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. B 170). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100024	The debate is open. Sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100044	Thank you. The draft law is the execution of proposal No. 57 in the June 2014 growth package, which the Left is part of, and which the Left, through the negotiations, has made more ambitious. This Opinion was drawn up in the light of the paper produced by the Section for Protection of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Affairs, chaired by Mr Bocklet (Italy - Various Interests). 57, has been followed by the fact that the social partners, LO and DA, have proposed a number of changes to what we agreed this summer. This has then been the basis for the final drafting of the draft law. The draft law is about a new regulation of employment clauses, which stem from a desire to create better conditions for growth in society and to ensure higher worker mobility and knowledge dissemination for the benefit of labour market productivity. That is certainly our common wish. However, we remain sceptical about the impact of the austerity measures agreed here, as there is still little evidence that the use of clauses is detrimental to job mobility and therefore to productivity. That's why we're also looking forward to the evaluation of this bill in three years' time. The draft law brings together the regulation of employment clauses into a new law on employment clauses. The new law regulates only the use of competition and customer clauses and combined clauses, as well as a ban on job clauses. The ban on job clauses is followed by two exceptions: it will continue to be possible to use job clauses for the transfer of undertakings and for temporary employment. The draft law lays down clear conditions which employers must comply with in order to be able to commit employees through these employment clauses, for example: clauses must be concluded in writing, that employees are entitled to compensation and that clauses may last for a maximum of 12 months. Finally, it is proposed that the social partners should be able to derogate from the law by means of collective agreements in order to take account of the particularities of each sector. The amendment should apply only to future agreements and should not interfere with existing agreements on the labour market. Overall, this bill is based on a broad political agreement which the social partners have subsequently helped to do better. This bill has found a balance which the Left wishes to maintain. So on that basis, the Left will support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100342	There are two brief comments. First, it's sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100348	It is true that this bill is a step forward. But there are also points that should probably have been included. I am thinking here of the fact that a number of parliamentary parties, including the rapporteur's party, agreed in 2008 that if two employers, who enter into a secret job clause that does not hire each other's employees, are exposed, there must be a right to compensation. At that time, a Supreme Court ruling was awaited to find out what it said on this subject, and it said that there was no right to compensation. Then the then Minister for Employment, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, the following statement in the report on the then draft law in 2008: • The Minister of Employment has given an undertaking to the committee to change the rules if the courts are to conclude that job clauses do not constitute an essential condition under the employment code. Then my question to the Left rapporteur is: will the Left help to introduce such a right of reimbursement at the moment of a secret job clause which, after the bill, will be banned?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100501	But now we are writing 2015, and last year we have concluded a growth agreement that includes a ban on job clauses. So I believe that the agreement and the clarification, the commitment made in 2008 will fall, because if two companies nevertheless enter into an illegal job clause, it is the ordinary rules for damages that apply. If the employee has suffered a loss, the employee can bring a case before the employer, so I think it is very clear. This bill forbids job clauses, and we are actually satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100552	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100554	A trial for compensation is a long and difficult path, and many people will refrain from it. Employees would be much better assured if there were a right to compensation. It can be said in this way that, although the draft law here contains a fine ban on job clauses, there must also, I think, be a proper punishment for those who violate it. I believe that people who drive too fast on the roads or park illegally will also be fined, and that is why, in my opinion, employers still need to be punished for doing something illegal. That's the Left's view of crime in general, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100631	However, we have here a legislative proposal arising from an agreement on a growth package that we made together this summer and which has been followed by an agreement between the social partners with proposals to make it even better. Then I'm listening to the SF propose to bring imbalance into this. I think that a sensible balance has been struck, and I think that the ban on job clauses in the draft law is very good and satisfactory for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100707	Sir. Christian Juhl, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100710	I don't understand any of that. I mean, if two employers do something illegal in a secret agreement, it has to be so that you can get fucked for it in the form of a fine. And it must surely also be the case that there is a dispute settlement system that can say quickly and effectively: yes, it is true, this is wrong. I can't believe a single employee has to go through a long trial to get his right in such a case. That can't be right. Is that really the position of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100740	It does not need to be a long trial, because if it is documented that the employee has suffered a loss, there is no doubt that the employee should be compensated. Of course the employee must have it. So there is no question here of employees having no rights. We are now implementing a ban on job clauses. And if you still enter into an illegal job clause, people can go to the courts and get their rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100815	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100816	Thank you. Yes, you can get your right, but it doesn't say anywhere that a fine or compensation is to be paid to the employee. It's nowhere. That means there are no consequences of this. This means that you can go out and get your right, and then you have spent years living under some clauses anyway. It is, of course, a kind of stick binding that you have in those clauses that are being used interchangeably, and that is why it is important that this proposal is substantially tightened up in order for it to have an effect. Is it not at all within the Left that more stringent legislation is needed to make this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100857	Now I have got from both SF and Enhedslisten a few questions that go on about that if you thought it all the way through, you could say that there was no need for the social partners at all. Then we could legislate on everything. So the thing about being a member of a professional organization that can take your case to an employer who does something illegal is, I understand, whatever. If the employee suffers a loss and this can be documented, is there a case that can be brought before the courts, and then I hope that the employee's professional organisation will help to lead it, because for what else would one be a member of a professional organisation? So I think it is quite right, as the legislation says.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100944	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508100954	Thank you, President. An absolutely crucial principle in the Danish labour market is a flexible and mobile workforce. It is a basis for growth and prosperity, and it is for the benefit of both employees and employers and society as a whole. In other words, we must do everything we can to ensure that there are optimal conditions for flexible and mobile labour. Part of that effort is about employment clauses, and that is what the draft law we are discussing here is about. I recognise that in some cases it may be necessary for companies to make use of employment clauses. It is certainly necessary to keep some particular business secrets, but at the same time I would stress that they must be used with caution. First of all, it is because employment clauses hit the individual employee hard. Recruitment clauses prevent employees from looking where they can get the best terms and the best use of their knowledge. It is therefore essential that the clauses be used only when necessary. Secondly, the clauses can result in a huge waste of know-how and skills, which means that employees are locked for a longer period of time. This waste goes beyond those companies that need skilled employees and ultimately slows down growth and innovation. No one can be served with that. It is therefore also gratifying that we are now dealing with a legislative proposal that will restrict the use of employment clauses. With L 196, use is regulated, with both restrictions on competition and customer clauses and a direct ban on job clauses with a few exceptions. Specifically, this means, inter alia, that clauses must be concluded in writing, that employees are entitled to compensation and that the clauses must last for a maximum of one year. In addition, the law also provides for rules on the consequences of non-compliance with an employment clause by either the employer or the employee. That's good. One thing I think it is important to bear in mind is that the draft law is based on a common understanding between the social partners. The bill is based on an agreement between the Danish Employers' Association and the LO on the regulation of employment clauses. At the same time, it is possible for the social partners to derogate from the new rules by means of collective agreements. This means that the social partners can introduce employment clauses in those sectors where this makes good sense. It seems to me that this is a good example of why the Danish labour market is working so well. This is because the various parties are jointly negotiating solutions that benefit everyone. With the legislative proposal, we will ensure better conditions for employees, who must be able to look where they can get the best conditions, and at the same time we will not lock up skilled labour and knowledge so that companies that need it will not be able to hire the right people, because that will only slow down innovation and growth. All this ensures a mobile and flexible labour market. The Socialists can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101245	There are three brief comments. The first one's from sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101249	I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether, now or later, the Social Democratic Party will be involved in introducing a right to compensation at the moment when two employers have entered into a prohibited job clause, whereby agreements are made that do not hire each other's employees. This is a major interference in the freedom of workers. At last, there is one point where employees benefit from the market, and that is why it is right that jobs can be changed. I would say that the Social Democratic Party was also behind the promise made in the 2008 report, and the same promise was reiterated by Mr Tugendhat. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen's party colleague, then employment rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, in a radio broadcast in 2011. So will the Social Democratic Party now or later contribute to the introduction of such a right to compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101343	This bill is based on an agreement between virtually all parties of the Folketing, and it is based on an agreement concluded between the LO and the DA. Within this framework, the draft law lies, and I think it is very good that it is possible to make it that way. Well, that's right, then, sir. Eigil Andersen says that in 2008 a report was made in connection with the discussion here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, what we said at the time, we stand by. What is at the start of this is that the agreement we have now goes some way along the road, and then we have to see if it can also include the things contained in the report from then on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101425	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101426	I am glad that a small opening is being made here by the Socialist rapporteur in terms of looking at it in the future. However, I would just like to add one thing, and that is that with the conciliation text that has been drawn up as part of the growth package, paragraph 57, it would not be contrary to the conciliation, if we had made this option of compensation already now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101454	Now it is the case, as the rapporteur knows, that there is a conciliation text, and the parties that agree with it must, of course, vouch for it. It may well be that there are some of the parties that it is clear that there is a desire to go further, but there are other parties that may not have, and one must bow to that. If you want to go further, it must be done in a different context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101518	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101521	When the rapporteur says that this is an expression of the best thing about the Danish model, namely that the social partners are negotiating an agreement, the rapporteur makes it sound as if this was a wish of both sides of industry, that is to say that this legislation should be made. Then the government just said: well, then we'll just formalize the deal we've made. But that's not the truth. The truth is that it was the government that, together with the trade union movement, had a political desire to make this legislation, and then they forced employers to make an agreement. Because if they hadn't done it, it would have really gotten a lot worse than what was planned here. So can't we get a little bit of honesty into it? It is not, of course, a question of whether there has been a desire on the part of both sides for this. The truth is that the parties have been forced to the table and, in particular, one party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101614	As the rapporteur of the Left quite well explained here, this bill is based on an agreement from the growth pact concluded in the summer of 2014 and of which, as far as I recall, the Liberal Alliance was not a part. What the parties are committed to here is to ensure that there is growth and development in Denmark, and that is also the reason why job clauses are banned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101638	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101640	So the rapporteur acknowledges that this was not a wish of the social partners. It was a request from the government, and then they were forced to the table. It's just to get the history right here. Because you shouldn't try to sell it here, as if there were such a common desire on the labour market among employers and employees' organisations that something should be done about this. No, there was a wish that this was part of the agreement and that this was something that could be negotiated, but now that process has been shorted out and forced through.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101718	Now I do not know where the Liberal Alliance rapporteur gets this from. I do not know that anyone is forced to do any negotiating tables. The parties here in the Folketing have an agreement to ban job clauses. The social partners have joined forces and have made some suggestions as to how part of the content can be and, as far as I know, we live in a free country and they have the opportunity to stay away if they want to. But they have chosen to sit together, and I take this as a positive sign that the social partners are behind this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101749	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101751	Thank you. Since you are at it anyway, no matter what the occasion is, i.e. whether it is to create greater growth or such things, then it is a good idea to make sure things get settled. That is to say, if illegal agreements are made, it is probably a very good idea to say that we then hit that nail in while we do the other things. Why have the Social Democrats and the other conciliation parties not taken care to put these things in place? It's fine that some of the LO's hourly wagers get a little improvement with this, but why not help the HKs who get stuck and where a promise has been made. Well, that's notoriously true. It's written both here and there. Why don't you get it in place at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101836	Well, as has been said before here from the platform, this bill is based on a political agreement, which is why there is a framework, a text that lies and a political agreement. There is no possibility of going beyond that in this debate. If it turns out, I thought that there are things that have not been achieved and that the social partners believe must be achieved, then they have the opportunity, through agreements, to make agreements to go beyond what the law says.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101907	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101908	But if promises have been made on the part of both the Left and the Socialists to solve this problem and combat these secret agreements and you are sitting at the table, is it not a breach of promise if they say that we are not going with them anyway? As I read, in the great agreement there is nothing to prevent this specific area from being cleared up and being able to live up to its promise. I mean, you kind of run away from that promise. The bourgeois have also made that promise. The then minister promised in 2008 that it should be resolved. I guess it's all on the flat hand to say that we get that straight and that we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508101951	As I said, this is a bill based on an agreement. However, it is also my clear view that if it subsequently turns out that there are things that are not being dealt with in this, then I think it is appropriate to look at whether there is a need to look at further measures in order to reach and resolve it. But we need to see that first. I know that there are trade unions who are out to beat the drum and who say that this is a situation that is quite unfair. But I think we should wait to see if this ban on job clauses can do it first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102033	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102043	Thank you, President. This bill means a change in job clauses in particular. There has been a major discussion in the past, several years ago, about how job clauses could hinder mobility in the labour market, that is to say that people were given new jobs. Job clauses have worked in such a way that employers have been able to agree with each other that they did not employ each other's employees. It could be for the sake of securing good employees in their own company, but also to ensure that they did not take knowledge from one company into another competing company. One can understand this as well: employers want to make sure. So that's what this proposal says they can do about clauses other than job clauses. Because, of course, we need to ensure that people can change jobs if they have run tired in the company they are in, but we also need to ensure that they do not just take the customer card into another company and then maybe destroy the company they come from. In the Danish People's Party we really think that this proposal is very balanced and we think it will solve many of the problems that exist. The existing job clauses then run on and will become invalid in 5 years' time, and then there is nothing called job clauses anymore, except if it is in the context of business transfer, where you have to protect the knowledge that exists if you are selling a company or in connection with temporary work. And that's fair too. We must, of course, ensure that it is possible to work with both companies and employees when they are now in need of a career change and there needs to be a development. As I said, we in the Danish People's Party really believe that this is going to be a long way along the way. It may always be that adjustments may have to be made, but we must then look at that when it has been running for a while and it is being evaluated. Then we'll have to see if there could be any reason for making adjustments to this. But the Danish People's Party is in the agreement, and we naturally support the agreement that has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102308	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102320	Thank you, President. Now, several of my fellow rapporteurs have told us more carefully what the agreement behind this bill is, and it can be said very briefly that we are implementing the partial agreement from the growth package, with which a large majority wanted to limit the use of employment clauses. I think that, overall, the legislative proposal strikes the right balance between the due considerations, we must and should take the first and foremost to the workers, but also to the employers and to the economy. When I say balance, we continue to enable companies to protect their business secrets by applying clauses when it comes to customers and competition. But on the other hand, we also have to look at this and we have also seen that there is asymmetry here. Firstly, it is the worker who is the weaker party, so to speak, and therefore there has been a political desire to regulate here. Secondly, it can be said that there is also a desire behind it to strengthen the economy in relation to how employment clauses are calibrated. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Hans Andersen, wanted to see this before I heard what the research behind it is, where the research results in this area are, and we can probably have a longer discussion about that. It is also a complicated area. But it can be said that there is a natural experiment in the United States which, I think, quite clearly shows that throughout this research-heavy area around Boston, which is also known to be a mecca for industry, growth and development, employment clauses have been allowed on a larger scale. This has also led to lower levels of growth compared to, for example, the United Kingdom. Silicon Valley, where it has been said more strategically that the extent of employment clauses will be kept in check or, at least, limited. I don't know exactly the details of this, but there's certainly a difference. And there has been a completely different flow and a different dynamic. So I think we can actually start from the natural experiment in the United States. But overall, the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102600	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102602	The Radical Left is actually a liberalist party in many respects, and it has given us a number of difficulties when we have discussed daily allowances. But on this point it is good that the Radical Left is a liberalist party. Reference was also made to the United States in the rapporteur's speech, which banned clauses in California. That is, of course, the right liberalism, and it is an area in which employees benefit from the market. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: when, in 2008, the Radical Left helped to say that there must be a right to compensation if two employers enter into a prohibited job clause, and when the rapporteur himself has repeated that promise in a radio broadcast in 2011, is the rapporteur not very sorry that this right of reimbursement is not included in this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102659	First of all, I do not know whether I should be happy to be called liberal, but we can take that at another time. So it is not a liberal vision that has been shown here, but a social liberal vision, and it is also a question of looking at who is the weak party here, while at the same time talking about the economy, but the economy cannot stand alone. You can always discuss whether we should have gone further than this. It is true that, in the past, I have taken the view in a purely intuitive and personal way that this was something we should have looked at. I mean, we've landed somewhere I can vouch for. But that does not mean that we cannot go forward. I'm willing to discuss that. But at least I think that we should make this work in the first place, and then we can discuss other adjustments later.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102753	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102755	I can tell the rapporteur that it is not only the rapporteur who takes the personal view that such a right of reimbursement would be a good idea. When we had the discussion in 2008, Mr. Morten Østergaard of the Radical Left, one of the banners that these job clauses should be banned and that there should be a right of reimbursement. Is this something that the Radical Left will help to look at in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102823	Well, it was fortunate that in 2011 I chose to be positive about banning employment clauses when my boss was too. However, I would like to say that, in the first place, it is about putting into effect the partial agreement we have from the growth package and making it work in practice. And I would actually say that I am willing to discuss later whether more can be done. I think that would be natural.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102854	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102856	Will the rapporteur tell us why he has not tried to live up to the promises he has made in this area of secret agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508102910	I can hear that there has been a great deal of faith in my ability to have a decisive influence on legislation here. I would say that, when faced with what employment clauses mean, there is a difference between saying in principle that it is something that should be changed and then what the final outcome of the negotiations will be. I can vouch for the outcome of the negotiations. I think it is the right thing to do here and now, also because there are these different balances that I have been talking about. It is not just about the interests of workers, so to speak, it is also about the economy and the agreements that have already been made and the employers. So I actually think that we are landing in a fine place, but I also open up the possibility that we can go further along that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103010	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103012	Now I don't put all my eggs in Radicale's basket. I ask each of the rapporteurs why they have not done so when they have promised it. The Socialists have made commitments, the Left has made commitments, and Radicals have made commitments in the past, and they sit and have a comfortable majority to implement what they have promised without doing so. That's why I'm asking. So what is the reason for this? The opportunity is there, so it is not enough just to say: we can do that once in the future. You can always do that. However, a commitment is not worth much if, precisely in the debate where it could be guaranteed, it is not used.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103051	Unlike Enhedslisten, we in the Radical Left are not comfortable running up to the top of a mountain with prefabricated positions and then staying there and camping. We feel that if there is a problem, if there is a challenge, then we indicate that here is something we should do something about, and then we are trying to solve it. But we are also not resistant to good arguments or to the fact that something can be complicated in reality. So it's about what's possible. But the underlying view is that the use of employment clauses is a bad thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103128	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Sir. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103139	A restriction on the use of employment clauses and a ban on job clauses are progress and therefore the SF is voting in favour of this bill. However, it is no secret that the proposal should have been more ambitious in the sense of the SF. If you are fired, you will receive an ongoing compensation for the work clause you have been covered by, but the compensation will be reduced if you find another job where you also receive a salary. There's a set-off in the pay you get from the other job. SF believes this is a wrong principle. We are in favour of making a job clause at the expense of employers, and why should it? It simply has to do so because working clauses discourage worker mobility, knowledge sharing and innovation, as the Productivity Commission also says. These are simply bad restrictions, both for employees and for society, imposed on employees by job clauses and working clauses. We have tried to get into the bill that employers' payments should not be reduced if you get another job, but unfortunately it has not succeeded. In this context, the procedure for the draft law has been somewhat debatable. Together with the draft law, we obtained from the Ministry the agreement which has been mentioned and which has been concluded between the LO and the DA, and that is fine. But I then found out that the FTF and the academics have jointly sent another proposal to the Ministry of Employment on what the bill should contain, and we had not received it from the Ministry. Although it is true that the LO plays a very important role in the Danish labour market and a very important role, and that we must place great emphasis on what the LO says, there are also other organisations, including FTF, which have about half a million members. So it's more nuanced, it's not just a question of LO. Furthermore, I have become aware that there is no full agreement within the LO either that this bill is good enough. Another point which the SF is very sorry about is not included in the conciliation is the issue of job clauses which are prohibited. As mentioned above, a job clause is an agreement between two employers that they will not hire each other's employees, even if employees from the two companies are looking for jobs in the other company. Such an agreement is prohibited by law, but what if it is revealed that two employers behind the backs of the employees have made a job clause anyway? Then, of course, there must be a right to compensation, because something illegal has happened. The then Minister for Employment thought so, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, also with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Radical Left, the New Alliance, which later became the Liberal Alliance. In the report these parties wrote the following: "The majority agree that, to the extent that job clauses constitute an essential condition within the meaning of the Employment Certificate Act/Directive, an employer's failure to inform the employee about a job clause will result in the employee being able to receive an allowance in the courts. ▪ The Supreme Court would wait for a judgment that would fall later, and then Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen included the following in the report on 4 June 2008: • The Minister for Employment has given an undertaking to the committee to change the rules if the courts are to conclude that job clauses do not constitute an essential condition under the employment code. ▪ The case has unfortunately been forgotten, both by the Left, the Ministry of Employment and all other parties, until it was brought forward in DR's programme "Orientation" in P1 this spring, at the end of March. It is human that things can be forgotten, and then you have to try to make it right. And SF and I have then made an attempt to get this right to compensation by taking the matter up with the other conciliation parties. I have received the reply from the Ministry that not all parties behind the conciliation on this point in the growth agreement, paragraph 57, want to fulfil the old promise. On the basis of the answers given to me in today's debate, I have a clear feeling that at least the Left has probably refused to accept that promise. And it is very, very regrettable that the Left does not want to live up to the promise made by the party's then Minister for Employment, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, delivered in 2008. We're incredibly fret about SF. We can only describe it as one thing, and it is a breach of promise. However, as I have said, we are voting in favour of the draft law, as it contains some progress. They should've just been bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103623	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103626	Thank you, sir. President. It is, of course, fair enough to say that something has been forgotten. That's it, too, sir. Eigil Andersen says that it was overlooked in the negotiations. I can inform you that it is not the Danish People's Party that is blocking that some of what Mr Eigil Andersen has wanted should come through. If it's so important, I'm just wondering why sir. Eigil Andersen has not asked the minister to call the conciliation circle in this question so that it could be discussed well. Of course, I've seen the mail correspondence, as sir. Eigil Andersen has had with the minister, but wouldn't it have been appropriate to bring the conciliation circle together when it was so important? Then it could be discussed through. Job clauses become invalid, and then they don't exist. It's hard to prove if there are some who agree something verbally with each other. It was supposed to be the case that after five years, all job clauses were gone. Then there should be no one. So the arrangement, as Mr. Eigil Andersen is referring to running for five years after this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103727	First of all, I should like to comment on the latter. Even if it is banned, it may still appear that there are some who violate the law, just as there are in all sorts of other areas, whether it be violence or traffic offences. But I'm glad that Mr. Bent Bøgsted says that the Danish People's Party is certainly not a party that blocks the creation of this right of reimbursement. That's how I understood what was said. Then there is the question of whether I and we in the SF should have asked for the conciliation parties to be convened for a meeting on this matter. Well, maybe it is. I got the impression that this was an urgent matter and therefore it became a mail correspondence between the conciliation parties. It is not always the case that, as a member of parliament, one is fully aware of what is in one's power, and I thought it was not a realistic possibility that the conciliation parties could have been convened. But it may be that sir... Bent Bøgsted is right that it would have been a better method, so it wasn't just an email debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103830	That's it? Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Christian Juhl? There are two options, I can see, but it's sir. Christian Juhl as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508103845	We have labour market rapporteurs Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4. This proposal concerns employment clauses and this is a good opportunity to tighten up the rules. The Enhedslisten is fundamentally opposed to Danish workers and employees and white collar workers being restricted in their free movement. Of course, there may be a few reasons for using employment clauses. I wondered, for example. at one point to see that the director of the FSA, who is the chief overseer of the banks, was suddenly the director of the Financial Council, which is the banker's organization. There was quite a shift, and in fact one could have expected that there was some clause there when he is up to that level. But for ordinary workers and employees and white-collar workers, I think it is an inevitability to use this kind of thing. The current employment clauses have to a large extent been abused by employers for staff tying employees, for example. an accountant or an ordinary official because they have been threatened with heavy claims by their employer because of the employment clauses. It's a kind of stick binding year 2015. Even in agriculture, it has been abandoned many, many years ago. That was more than 100 years ago. It is absurd that, for example, there should be a ban on the use of hormones. 11% by HK Private members are subject to an employment clause. 11%, that's one in nine HKs in the private sector. It's only 11⁄2%. by HK's members, who are leaders, and it is only for them that it could be discussed. In practical terms, this means that, for example, a regular accountant from a large company with many customers cannot apply for a job in the industry if there is a clause. And it is quite absurd when the accountant knows nothing but the deposits to the bank. The aim of the bill is to try to limit these illegal clauses, and it should be said that in individual areas, in the area of hourly pay, there are advantages. But the new bill does not solve the problem I mentioned earlier with the HKs. You change the rules a little, for example. for the hourly earnings that I mentioned. That is why, in my opinion, the draft law is quite unambitious, and I agree with SF's criticism of both the progress and the content. The problems with the new bill are as follows: firstly, it is still an opportunity for companies to make illegal job clauses which prevent employees from taking up employment in another company without the cost of a fine or compensation to employees. Secondly, it is free of charge for an employer to impose illegal competition and customer clauses on employees because there are no claims for damages and compensation. Thirdly, there is no requirement for ongoing payments to be made in order to impose an employment clause on employees. It is only at the time of termination that payment has to be made, and this means that the employer himself decides when the company disclaims the clause, while the employee cannot disclaim the clause. Then there is a concept here that we need to focus on. It's called specially entrusted. It is not defined, and it gives employers free interpretation. This means that there will continue to be many ordinary employees who are forced on these stick-binding rules. A whole barn gate has been opened for interpretations in this area, without help being given to get clear information about what is specially entrusted. Finally, I would like to say that there is no provision for a fast-acting dispute settlement system. This means that the current very slow system continues, so a decision on illegal clauses is only settled, many months after they have been applied. This means that it is not only free but also without the risk for the employer to apply the clauses. That is not good enough, and on that basis I would say that the Enhedslisten is very critical of what is here. And we call on the government to listen, among other things. to HK's objections, so that the rights of ordinary employees are properly safeguarded in the law, when we are now in the process of correcting the errors.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104307	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104323	With this bill, we want to tighten up the use of employment clauses by companies. This is happening, among other things. based on the recommendations of the Productivity Commission. The fact that there is a political desire to have a labour market as flexible as possible is understandable. That is in everyone's interest, and there may be the challenge, such as the one we are discussing today. PROSA points out that the clauses do not protect business secrets, customers or investments made in employees, but instead only serve to bind employees. However, there may be quite legitimate reasons for applying work clauses. It may, of course, be sensible to prevent employees headhunting to competitors simply because of the knowledge they have about their current workplace and in the balance between these competing considerations, this proposal goes far too far. That is, for example, the case. Too restrictive to apply customer clauses only for a single year and only to apply the clause after six months of employment. Moreover, the compensation for having an employment clause is very high. As DA notes in its consultation answer, we in Denmark are known for having a very flat organizational structure, which means that a larger group of people will gain insight into the details of the company. It can be healthy and productivity-enhancing that a larger group of employees have a great deal of knowledge of the company and have the opportunity to enter the business. When you make such a drastic tightening of the possibility of using clauses and limit the scope of the clauses to apply to employees with a particularly trusted position, you may fear that companies will reconsider their organisational structure, because with the proposal it will be impossible or expensive to ensure that employees do not steal customers or run with business secrets to the competitor. The consequence of this can easily become more closed workflows and a fight with some of what is special about Danish business. The Liberal Alliance recognises that the issue of working clauses is a difficult dilemma, but we do not see the very restrictive proposal as a real improvement in current legislation. That's why we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104532	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104543	I must also say that in the Conservative People's Party we are in this part of the growth agreement, and that is why we naturally support the proposal. We are pleased that it has been done in a way where the social partners have found the basis of the model to be used. It is of course important to us, as I have said so many times before, that the social partners are as close as possible when we make policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104613	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104622	Thank you for the consideration of this bill, which is, of course, a partial agreement in the context of the growth package. I think there are a lot of good things in this bill. We ban job clauses and bring together the regulation of employment clauses into one law where it has previously been in three laws. That in itself helps to make it more manageable. We still make it possible for companies to protect their business secrets by using customer and competition clauses, but the conditions are now being clearly adjusted. We are motivating employers to think carefully before demanding employment clauses. And if they still feel that there is a need to reach an agreement on employment clauses, then it must be short-term. So I think the intentions of this bill are excellent. And as Mrs Charlotte Dyremose said so precisely, perhaps this is also one of the examples of when the Danish model works where the parties have gone into it. This may also reflect a little debate here today, because there is no doubt that there could be wishes on both sides of the table and on both sides of the political spectrum about other and more. However, we have chosen to table this bill, by the way, in agreement with the parties, and I think it is the case that we are hitting something that drives this whole area considerably further, and I think that is good for all parties. I shall see to it that we have a quick and sensible discussion of this in the committee work which is now under way and of any questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104800	Sir. Christian Juhl has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104802	I would like to know whether the Minister does not think it is too bad that the Left is running away from their commitments, when they last had the ministerial post, to do something about the agreements that are secret and illegal. So I would like to ask the Minister as the second question: will he take the initiative to correct this from the first reading until the final adoption of the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104827	I am very pleased that the Left is part of this agreement, and I am also very pleased that, as far as I can judge, it is a very broad agreement. That is my main concern. I don't need anything straightened up along the way between the treatments here. I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, as I know is also concerned with industrial relations, is that there is a balanced agreement here in which the social partners can also see themselves. And the harmony that is here, I'm not going to break. I believe that we are going some decisive and good steps forward. Should it be shown, also in relation to some of the questions which Mr. Christian Juhl, along the way, suggests that there are still some problems, so there is also an evaluation clause in this bill, as there are in all sorts of other legislative proposals. So I'm on the bottom line happy with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104916	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508104917	I would like to ask the Minister whether there would not have been much harmony in this too if we had already recognised, six or seven years ago, that there was a problem and said that it had to have been resolved and it was wide, that the problem had been recognised and that all the social partners had been told: we will solve all the problems along the way, when we know them. I understand that it is the LO that has been the party We have known the problem. It is not a problem that has suddenly arisen yesterday or last year. In fact, it was in the days of the old government that that problem was recognised and a report was made which said: we agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105008	Now we forbid it, quite clearly. I think it's sir. Eigil Andersen, who has sometimes said along the way that it is not certain that it is the same as the ban being observed. We have other examples of this. But at least now we are making it quite clear that it must be banned. I would just like to say that there is a balance in this which is quite reasonable and I would like to quote Christian Juhl: it may well happen that when we open something in relation to one side, it may be just as justified that something should be opened to another side. In fact, I am quite happy that we have a balanced proposal here, which seems to have a very broad majority in the Folketing behind it and which is supported by the social partners. It's not really the worst model you have. I've just been in China for three days, and I actually think there are a lot of people in China who would like to have such a harmony in relation to things like this. This is certainly one of the experiences I brought back from the trip that then still leaves a little jet lag.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105104	Then there was an extra brief remark from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105108	It is based on some of the Minister's answers here. There is talk of the social partners and that the LO and the Danish Employers' Association have reached an agreement on this subject, but does the Minister not agree with me that there are other social partners in Denmark than the LO and the Danish Employers' Association? So, does the Minister not agree with me that the FTF is to a large extent also a part of the social partners?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105137	Yes, and AC and so many others. That is why I think I used the term that a substantial part of the social partners have reached an agreement on which they have then reflected in relation to this bill. Other views can then be heard and read about in the hearings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105156	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105157	It's just a short line. Can we not conclude, then, that it is a good idea, when you sit here as a politician, to look at the diversity of the statements made by the social partners, so that it is not just a question of the LO and DA?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105215	Yes, and there it is precisely that we, as politicians, have to take on the role, because then we will have to find the solution that we believe in dribbles further in relation to what we would like to see it do this bill and then we will have to find what I think is also important and which I think we agree on where we have the breadth of it, both in terms of political life, but also in terms of the life that is outside political life. I think we have clearly found that with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105242	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105300	The debate is open. Mrs Karen Ellemann as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105315	When, unfortunately, Mrs Fatma Øktem, the rapporteur for gender equality in the Left, was unable to be in the Chamber today, I have been allowed to replace her. The legislative proposal we are now considering is the implementation of the political agreement that was concluded back in March, which is about targeting the work of the Equal Opportunities Board, so that real gender issues are focused in the future. In concrete terms, it is proposed, firstly, that in future the Equal Treatment Board should only be able to deal with a complaint if the person complaining has an individual and current interest in a specific case; that is to say, he himself must be affected. Secondly, in the future, the Equal Opportunities Board must be able to give priority to its resources in relation to the complexity of the cases, so that most resources are spent on complex cases. This is done by introducing an opportunity for a member of the Presidency of the Equal Opportunities Board to take decisions only in cases where established practice has been established. Thirdly, the Institute of Human Rights is given jurisdiction to bring proceedings of a fundamental nature or of general public interest concerning unlawful discrimination before the Equal Treatment Board, even if no citizen has referred the matter to the Court of Justice. In the Left, we welcome the fact that this problem has been tackled. Because we have to recognise with shame that there have actually been a great many things that I would call frivolous cases where Danes have complained to the Equal Treatment Board about price differences on men's clips and women's clips, for example. It has been complained that there has been a free entrance for men at a knitting festival on Fanoe, or even a complaint has been made that a woman's roof has been established in a hotel. It is a pity that there have been this series of frivolous cases, that the Equal Treatment Board has had to spend time and resources, and thus also lots of crowns and ears on such cases, which really have nothing to do with discrimination. We must put an end to this, because precisely these curious cases make the area of equality appear to be something that is irresponsible and without real challenges, and that is certainly not the case. There are many real equality cases, such as: discrimination based on ethnicity. All forms of discrimination are not necessarily discrimination, and the Equal Treatment Board must and must concentrate on cases where there is real discrimination. This bill is taking a small step towards securing it, and we are pleased about it, but at the same time we would also like to stress that we wanted to go much further to ensure that these frivolous cases do not go all the way through to the Equal Opportunities Board. In fact, we would have liked to have introduced a fee of DKK 500. in order to start a complaint to the Equal Treatment Board, because it would probably cause a lot of people to rethink their case. If you had a good case, a fee of 500 kroner would be paid. I don't think that's gonna stop you from testing this case. Of course, the fee would be returned if you were successful in your case. At the same time, we also wanted a de minimis threshold to be introduced for these types of cases, but at that time the government was not willing to go further than that. Let me say that in the Left we do not believe that this bill alone will remove all the trivialities from the table of the Equal Opportunities Board and, since it is an agreement we have reached and not a settlement, I would also like to say here that we will continue to work in this area if we have a majority in order to be able to do so in the future. However, as mentioned in the introduction, the draft law is a small step in the right direction and we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105720	There are a few brief comments. As I said to another rapporteur on the other day, it is not personal, but we discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that we are not interested in knowing who might have been the rapporteur in the past. Those who come up on Parliament's platform are agreed on that in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so I am just saying it to general information, because it is a widespread tendency to refer to other names, and that is not something that the Folketing, in the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, is interested in as information. It was not personal, and I think I will say it sometimes when I meet it here, because it was a theme at the committee meeting earlier this week. We shall now proceed to the brief remarks, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Rasmus Horn Langhoff first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105820	Great. But then I have a few questions for the rapporteur on the Left, Mrs Karen Ellemann, who, in connection with this proposal, is very much in favour of the fact that, if it were up to them alone, the Left would like user charges to be introduced in this area too. The rapporteur himself mentions, for example, that it could be 500 kroner. Can the rapporteur of the Left not fear and be concerned that it will sort out some real discrimination cases, i.e. that this economic element will also be included? Because we can agree quickly that we have to sort out, but what is good about this proposal is that it is technically justified, so that we do not just sort out those who do not have very much money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508105916	Allow me to begin by commenting briefly on the President's statement on the Rules of Procedure and so on. I fully agree, but I just thought it was important in this speech by the rapporteur to explain that the rapporteur for gender equality in the Left is Mrs Fatma Øktem and that I am the rapporteur for the Left. I am on the Committee on Gender Equality and I look forward to the debate. Now to the question. The introduction of a fee on a case is something we generally use in complaints in Denmark and do so with the intention that when you start a complaint, you should also be aware as a complainant that it has a demanding after-play to have raised a complaint and that, of course, you think twice and think whether you really believe that you are going to be successful here too. 'Cause you get as I also mention the money back, in case you get favorable in your case. So, to me, this is not a discussion about increasing user charges or preventing anyone from complaining. It is merely a question of clarifying that one really must be quite convinced that the complaint that one has is also really a complaint which would be acceptable to one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110033	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110034	It is all very well that the intentions are good, but that is why it is wise that we have thought through what the consequences of our proposals will be. When I meet with young people who are even younger than I am, among other things. Young people with a background other than Danish, i.e. with an immigrant background, and I hear that some of them have experienced that they are rejected in the nightlife and at the discotheques alone because of their skin color, and I say to them that they should then complain to the Equal Treatment Board, so I just want to say that this is not something you just do. It is not such an opportunity that all young people are equally aware of there is and where they are ready to throw some energy into it, although it would actually be very good to get these cases up and get something done about it. If you're gonna tell them that they're gonna have to get 500 kroner, too. I can guarantee that all these young people will be removed from their pockets in order to complain in a complaint system which, fortunately, today is easy and free to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110145	I do not think that it will prevent anyone from going to the Equal Treatment Board if they have actually been discriminated against. In fact, I very much agree with the rapporteur that, when we are talking about discrimination in relation to ethnicity, we really have a job to do in calling for our complaint to be taken up and that we have proof that there must be no discrimination here, as we know from nightlife, for example. And frankly, I absolutely don't think 500 kroner. as a complaint fee for starting a complaint is unreasonable, because it is a very large system that starts when you have to deal with your complaint. And just as far as the rejections at the doors of nightlife are concerned, I think they are very much cases which could set a precedent for this not to take place in the future, so that we can simply eliminate the problem that is really happening in the nightlife. And then I have a page note: if you're going into a nightclub, 500 kroner. Perhaps not really what is the problem in terms of being able to be serious when it comes to an experience and a complaint afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110254	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110257	First of all, sir, I'm gonna give it to you. Rasmus Horn Langhoff is right. I will follow up and then I will ask Mrs Karen Ellemann: if there is a new government, what will be done? Are you going to change the law, or are you going to stand by the agreement we have made with the new law change?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110326	I can answer quite clearly that we support the legislative proposal that has been put forward now. We would just have liked to have gone further, and that is also why I make it clear in the rapporteur's speech that it is a political agreement that has been made. We haven't tied ourselves up in a settlement now. And should we go and get a blue majority, there will probably be agreement on • if it gives a majority • to go further than what we are doing with the bill today, for example, as I mention, in the direction of charging when you start a case at the Equal Treatment Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110358	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110402	That is a clear answer, because there is a difference between the blue block and us. Because there you are in favour of fees, and we are not. However, I have another question: what is the de minimis limit? How can we make a de minimis limit where the trivialities are sired from, but not from, what is above the limit? How do you make a small limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110429	There is no doubt that defining where a border goes is a work that needs to be done thoroughly, before one can say, as it were, whether a case is trivial or not. And it is a little thought-provoking that we have failed to do so at this stage. I am not going to stand here and say exactly where the limit is, but I must make it clear that we want this work to be started so that we can clearly say when it is trivial and when it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110501	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110507	I know that Mrs Karen Ellemann is not the rapporteur on this, but it is just for those who are listening, because they should know that if you are discriminated against at the entrance of a discotheque, you cannot ask the Equal Treatment Board to raise the matter because it requires clarification of witnesses, and it is just the case that the example provided by the rapporteur does not actually work. But I am well aware that she is not the rapporteur on this; I am just saying it in relation to those who are listening. As far as user charges are concerned: now the rapporteur's party chairman and other rapporteurs have made a very big deal about the fact that there should be no more user charges in the health sector. But when you say that you want to make a small limit, I would still like to ask you something. All those who are in this area say that it is a political assessment and that it is the politicians who have to assess how small the threshold should be, and so I would like to hear: does the Left have any ideas about what they think there is no discrimination and which they therefore do not think should be raised as a matter? And if you've decided it's gonna cost 500 kroner. to be able to complain?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110619	First of all, it was actually Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, who gave an example of discrimination in nightlife, and it is absolutely true, as Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic says, that of course it requires witnesses, because it is not enough just to say: I have a feeling that I was not allowed in because of my ethnicity. It is clear that such a case must be illuminated and thus also with witnesses, no doubt about it. In relation to continuing to cycle around in that soup, which says whether it is a user charge or what it is, I would say: we think it is reasonable that, when it comes to various complaints, a charge should be introduced to start a case. If you win your case, you get the fee back. Is it also a user fee when you get the money back because you have won? Well, we think it makes sense because it can stop what we consider to be trivial matters. And what is it? the rapporteur asks. Yes, these are exactly the examples we have seen where you feel discriminated against because a women's haircut is more expensive than a men's haircut, or you feel discriminated against because men get free access to a knitting festival.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110724	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110728	But now the rapporteur says that it means that it is quite fair that, if you are going to raise a case, there is a starting fee. If we are to follow that logic, that should also apply in the legal system. Does this mean that the Left also believes it is a good idea that when you have to raise a case of forced entry or something else, there should be a fee because it is reasonable and because, if the case is solved and the police have found the thief, you can get your money back? I would like to know what the logic is, that one place is totally fair and that the other place is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110809	I certainly do not think it is fair to compare the type of cases we are talking about here with the possibility of bringing a case before the Equal Treatment Board, with criminal proceedings. These are two very different things. We're talking about a Board of Appeal. Therefore, for us it is only quite clear that this is a specific area where we think it is reasonable that, as a user of this, if you want to raise a case, you start with a fee. Because you ask the user to think about starting a complaint at the Equal Treatment Board, and I do not think the two things can be compared in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110847	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508110900	I have been looking forward to the treatment here today. After all, the Equal Opportunities Board has discussed several times politically, mainly in the media. Here it has been cases such as swinging clubs, knitting festivals, hairdresser prices and other items in the more colourful end that has filled. And that is clearly what interests the media. It should preferably be at the lucrative end, although in reality it is not very representative of the large amount of work carried out by the Equal Opportunities Board. That is why I think it is good that we have this debate today, where we are also focusing on the important work that is being done here. After all, the work of the Equal Opportunities Board is primarily about real discrimination cases in the labour market, in nightlife and elsewhere, and that is the work that needs to be strengthened. We are also pleased by the Social Democrats that in March we managed to reach a broad consensus on strengthening the Equal Opportunities Board. It is an important institution where, as a citizen, if you experience discrimination, you can go without having money out of your pocket. It has been important for us in the Social Democratic Party that it should continue in the future too, so that everyone can have their case dealt with, even if you do not have the money for it. However, we are pleased that, with the agreement on the legislative proposal, we ensure that when complaints are made to the Equal Treatment Board, there is a legal interest in the matter. This ensures that you cannot just sit at home on the couch and be offended on behalf of others and then lodge a complaint on that basis. I also believe that this means that we will have more cases sorted out by them at the more colourful end, which I started by mentioning, and it will also facilitate the work that the President himself will be able to decide in future on matters where there is a firm practice. Then there are the matters of principle that are hard to come by as an individual. One example could be what we have also discussed in the media, i.e. these special rules for male educators in the day institutions. That is why it is an important step forward that the Institute of Human Rights will, in future, when we hopefully adopt this bill, have the competence to bring to the attention of those cases and other cases which are of public interest. The Social Democrats support the proposal today and we welcome the fact that the draft law here makes the work of the Equal Opportunities Board more targeted and ensures that the forces are used properly to combat discrimination and discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111151	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111158	The Social Democrat rapporteur says that now the Equal Treatment Board has been strengthened. You don't. The starting point for the government was cases of e.g. male educators, with whom SF has been incredibly concerned. If no one was personally wronged, then an organisation or anyone else was not allowed to complain about that discrimination. The Social Democratic Party thought that was okay. This was the starting point of social democracy in the form of the presentation made by the government, that is to say, that it was in order. We have been told by the SF that those matters must end up in the Institute for Human Rights, which in this way can say to the mention that they have to raise this matter anyway. It's just for the record. When it is said that the name has been strengthened, I would like to hear the rapporteur say where it is, the name has been precisely strengthened.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111250	I am sorry to hear now that the SF believes that the mention has been weakened. It is very worrying if it is the official policy of the Socialist People's Party, in other words that with this bill we are weakening the Equal Opportunities Board. I think that is very, very worrying, because that is not the intention. That is what we agreed, namely that we wanted to strengthen the Equal Opportunities Board. So I cannot understand why that sentence can get Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic out of the chair with the huge tirade of different postulates around the negotiating process. The Equal Opportunities Board needs to be strengthened, and we do so, among other things. by allowing for Presidential decisions; allowing for some sort of sorting, so that the real discrimination cases, not these knitting festivals, and what else has been allowed to fill equally much, are allowed to get the main focus of the work effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111351	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111354	It is a little fun to hear the rapporteur. For now there is a rapporteur for the Danish People's Party who can also go up and confirm that this was not the starting point for the government. That is why I am asking where it is that the mention has been strengthened. Well, the government's starting point was, we don't bother with all those cases. If there is a similar case, the President must say no. And if you are not personally wronged, you cannot be allowed to complain. The government has done nothing in the area of equality. On top of that, the Equal Opportunities Board will be weakened. There we suggested that we could at least do it, that the Institute for Human Rights could go in and take these cases. Is it not true that this is a proposal that has come after us? Politiken has even written about the government's initiative, where it was not part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111439	I think it is a bit comical to stand up here on the platform and witness this debate that Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic is trying to get going, which is like trying to put a split or a huge disagreement on something that is, in fact, widely supported. I mean, I see this as strengthening the Equal Treatment Board, because the Equal Treatment Board needs to spend more time on real discrimination cases. I see this as a huge strengthening for citizens' ability to raise discrimination cases and to put an end to discrimination, that is to say, to spend your working time on the real cases and not on the silly cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111519	Mrs Merete Riisager for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111525	Thank you. The rapporteur says that we should concentrate only on dealing with the right discrimination cases, but part of the problem with the mention, as it is working today, is that there is no clear definition of what discrimination is. In the negotiations, the Liberal Alliance proposed that we draw up a clearer definition of the concept of discrimination, on which it could work on the basis. But that's not part of this bill. Can the rapporteur not just try to put into words why it is that it has not been included?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111605	I can at least explain why I think it is a good idea not to include it. I see a problem in the fact that a definition of where the line should be drawn is drawn from a political point of view. I think that we in the political spectrum should give some guidelines and set out some guidelines as to what the working method should be like, and then it has to be a professional judgement which determines where the sorting should be. Well, that may sound very good, but I have been worried about the proposal made by the Liberal Alliance in this area all the time, because I see an element of taste judgment in it, and I do not think that is our job.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111702	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111705	This isn't about taste judgment at all. After all, this is about law, and it is precisely about professional judgements. However, it is clear that officials sitting on a board are dealing with the legislative texts they have defined by politicians, and the legislative texts are, of course, those which today cause them to raise a whole lot of issues, as both the rapporteur and I do not think they have anything to do with discrimination. So without saying what the end result would be, could it not be a good idea to draw up clear guidelines on how to define the concept of discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111743	The challenge is, of course, that none of us can predict and that none of us know exactly what matters will come in the future or how we can get things sorted out better. It's easy to sort things out. This can, of course, be done through the proposal of the Liberal Alliance here to define a de minimis threshold for discrimination. You can also do so, as the Left is also warmly in favour, by sorting out those who do not have so much money, at least not complaining. That's an easy way to sort. Or we can just close the Equal Opportunities Board. Then we can be 100% sure we don't have to deal with any more nonsense. The only problem is that the more you sort out, the more you will cut off important matters that we have to deal with and that we all have an interest in coming to light. Then we can disagree on exactly how to sort, but the challenge is to make the right cut, and I'm comfortable with this cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111844	A few more brief comments have been made. First, it's Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111850	I understand that the Socialist rapporteur is extremely concerned that some kind of fee is being made which will then only be imposed on those who were not right. One can say that it is also a sort of sorting mechanism that you just make people think: is this a matter too, or is it really just nonsense? As I understand it, we agree that there are some cases here that have just been silly. It is also the case that you have to pay a fee if you complain to the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board. It is also the case that you have to pay a fee if you complain to the Consumer Complaints Board. Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff that this is a problem and is it something you want to work towards abolishing? For that fee must then also prevent some from complaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508111934	I have to correct the Conservative rapporteur and say that in the proposal put forward by civil parties I have not seen the proposal put forward, but a request for a fee has been made for everyone. Then it may be that you have a case that you go and win, and then you can get back that fee, that user fee, or whatever to call it. So the fee will be imposed on everyone. My concern is that the second you sit and consider whether it is worth the trouble, whether you really feel that you have a good case, even if you really feel discriminated against, it will prevent some real discrimination cases from being conducted if you have to have 500 kroner on the same occasion. Out of your pocket. Especially if you're an 18-year-old kid and you've been discriminated against the night before, or you just don't have 500 kroner, it'll keep you from complaining. I am worried about what is going to happen if the bourgeois get power as they have been watching, because then it is quite clear that more user charges will be introduced in Denmark. We've got a lot of user charges around here. I believe that it is good for coherence that it is good for equality in Denmark that at least no more user charges are introduced than we have today, such as user fees for visits to doctors, the Equal Treatment Board, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112109	Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112112	It was an incredibly long talk about everything that wasn't about what I asked, so I'm gonna try again. I ask whether the fees for complaining to the Nature and Environment Complaints Board and the Consumer Complaints Board are also a problem in the eyes of the Socialist rapporteur and whether he wants to abolish them. Because if it is such a big problem that in this area a fee is charged to the complainant if he wins his case, then that must be a similar problem in the other areas. And if it is not a problem in the other areas, it could be that it would not be a problem in this area either. So can we not deal with charges that are being paid back in this area and in the other two areas I mentioned? Is the answer yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112156	I replied very precisely to what the rapporteur asked before, and I even bothered to correct the rapporteur in something that was misrepresented. I would also like to reply to the Conservative rapporteur very precisely here and say that the whole intention of civil parties now introducing a fee is to restrict people's access to justice. It is to get fewer complaints, and that is also the effect it will have. It would just be the wrong way to limit them. I'm not in favour of any more user charges anywhere. Now we are dealing with the Equal Treatment Board and I am not in favour of user charges here. I think that would be an unspeakable way of sorting. It must be sorted out on the basis of professional considerations, not on the basis of whether people have money or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112248	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112253	I simply have to follow up on my Conservative colleague's question because that has not been answered. Today we have fees when it comes to complaining to the Consumer Complaints Board, to the Nature and Environment Complaints Board, and with the rapporteur's opinion here we clearly get the impression that it is quite, quite awful, because then no one can use the Boards of Appeal we have, because with a fee to start a case we have to expect at least the way the rapporteur puts it • that no one will start a complaint. That is why the question is very simple: with the attitude of the Social Democrats on the establishment of fees on the Equal Opportunities Board, the policy of the Social Democrats must then be that we should not have any fees on the Nature and Environment Complaints Board or on the Consumer Complaints Board. Are you going to roll back those fees?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112353	There's no intention of doing that. And I can say that the question is, of course, whether we think it is good for the Danes; it is good for legal certainty; it is good for the fight against discrimination to introduce user charges. You have to ask yourself that question. Will it benefit people's rights and opportunities to raise real discrimination cases if they are to have money out of their pockets in future? My answer is no. And if the Left answers yes, then I think it is an honest matter and then there is a political disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112433	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112436	Then it is just curious that the rapporteur says that there are no current plans to change the fees of the other Boards of Appeal, because then, like the Socialists' policy, there is no real coherence. Here's the connection. I say clearly that we think it is reasonable to have a fee in appeal cases. It is a fee that will be refunded if you are successful in your complaint. This means that you think twice before you start a major complaint. Now I understand from the rapporteur that it is believed that it will prevent everyone from doing so in the area of equal treatment, but that there is absolutely no intention to do anything about it in relation to the Nature and Environment Complaints Board and the Consumer Complaints Board. What does that mean? Can the rapporteur confirm that there is a connection in the policy of the Socialists in relation to the fees for complaints?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112524	Now I know that every day we come closer to a parliamentary election campaign, but I do not like the fact that words are being put in my mouth, as I have not said. And I do not think that Mrs Karen Ellemann has heard me say that it prevents everyone from complaining. I say that it will certainly limit those who do not have a great deal of money and that it will do so, that you will consider an extra time before you sit down and complain, whether you have a real cause or not. And that is surely the aim of the bourgeois parties, namely to make fewer people complain. I do not think that would be the right way to go, and I believe that the way to sort out complaints should be on the basis of professional considerations and not on the basis of who is rich and who is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112611	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508112620	Thank you. It is just before you think it is a fee matter that we are discussing, and not the Equal Treatment Board, but it is such a minor detail. May I not start by saying that we in the Danish People's Party of course think this is a good thing. That is a good thing because it is now being said that the complainant must therefore be personally involved in the complaints brought before the Equal Treatment Board. I would also like to say that this is actually the reason why we in the Danish People's Party have been against a fee. It is not the case that when you complain to the Nature and Environment Complaints Board or the Consumer Council and have to pay a fee, you need to be personally involved. That is actually the reason why we in the Danish People's Party say: There is no charge here, because you have to be personally involved. The reason we are in favour of this is precisely that we want to avoid people coming by a barber shop and seeing that there is a difference between men's and women's hairdresser prices, and then send a complaint because it is free, easy and simple. You feel discriminated against, but you haven't even been in there. It's completely ridiculous. But I would also like to say that it has been important for us to stress that when there are cases like the one with the female students who are going to the exam, but where a male censor will then not shake hands, which is customary in Denmark, we believe that this is discrimination. Of course we have to complain about this, because it is not equal treatment. And there must be an opportunity to complain about that. That is very, very important to emphasise. Although many people think that it is absolutely ridiculous that there are complaints about a woman's roof at Hotel Bella Sky, because it is just the opportunity for the business to fulfil the wish that the hotel claims there is, it is also important for me to stress that if I was now a man and had a phobia that made me absolutely only able to live on the 17th floor, I had a problem with that hotel, if nothing else, and then you have to be able to complain. I think so, too. I think it is very good that, in the matters of principle and they are there where there are people who may not personally want to get involved, we are now giving the Institute of Human Rights the opportunity to take up those matters so that they can be dealt with and so that you can say: it is possible that it is a group of people that you can do something about. It's not okay with discrimination. But I also believe that when we have this discussion, as we can see, it also has something to do with the fact that we may have a very similar view of what is discrimination. That does not necessarily mean, from my point of view at least, that you are allowed to do the same. That's exactly why we're seeing these weird hairdresser prices, knitting camps where it's free for men, motor weekends, where it's free for women, or what I know you can come up with by concepts. That is basically the starting point for this draft law, so that we will try to remove some of the matters that we consider to be completely hopeless, with the background we now have in here, and for nothing to do with discrimination. That is why I think it is a very good proposal. I would like to say that it is of course very important not to prevent anyone who feels discriminated against from complaining. And I really think that with the agreement here we have been trying to find that balance. But I also think it has been difficult, and that is why I think it is very good that a review clause has been put in place so that in two years' time we will carry out a review in which we will look into whether it has actually had the effect we really want and whether we have avoided someone not having to deal with their quite obvious discrimination cases. That is what we really want. That is why I think it is very important that this review clause has been introduced. I'll tell you what. As a starting point, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113049	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113053	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think it was clear, but I should just ask: when the rapporteur says that you are opposed to fees, are they also fees after the next election?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113119	If it's about this case, yeah. And when sir... Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr asks so openly for fees may be a lot of things.I just want to stick to this case and say that right in this area we are against it, yes. However, we are in favour of the fact that when you complain to the Nature and Environment Complaints Board, you have to pay a fee, and we do so because you do not need to be personally involved there. And I think I actually made it clear that precisely here we do not need a fee, because that is where I think the difference is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113145	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113148	Thank you for your answer. Then I have one more question: in principle decisions can involve the Institute for Human Rights. Is the Danish People's Party in favour of the Institute for Human Rights complaining, and is it considered that there is enough money in the Institute for Human Rights to address such complaints?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113213	So, I would say that the Danish People's Party may not have the best view of the Institute of Human Rights, because we basically think that they interfere too many times, it is perhaps wrong to say so, because I think that some of the things they bring along and point out can be very good compared to the situation of many other countries. But I actually think we have some decent human rights here in Denmark, and I think we have a society in Denmark that makes it at least some of the statements that come from the Institute of Human Rights, where I think: where did it come from? But that's the way it is. After all, it is on the basis of an EU case that it came to the Institute for Human Rights at the time with equal treatment. It is back in 2010/2011, I think, where the European Union said that we did not deal with matters properly in Denmark. That's why it was put over there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113307	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen as radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113318	Thank you. For me and for the Radical Left, it is important to start by stressing that we consider the vast majority of the work of the Equal Opportunities Board to be extremely important. And no, here we are not talking about hairdresser prices or knitting festivals or the like, but about the many rye bread cases of quite ordinary discrimination, which unfortunately still exist in our labour market, in our nightlife or elsewhere, and which arise on the basis of gender, ethnicity, religion and sexuality. And that's, you might say, rye bread stuff, which is rarely written about. As the Social Democrat rapporteur said, it is not something that can draw the big headlines, and therefore it is rarely something that actually sees the light of day. But that doesn't make it any less important. And that is why the core of this proposal is, in fact, the fact that we will have a more equal treatment board, in which we will focus on the real challenges that, in other words, still remain with equality and equal treatment in Denmark. In the Radical Left, we think that the agreement that we reached in March, and of which this bill is, after all, a good one, is a good one. It was an agreement which had precisely the purpose of having a more equal treatment board which uses its powers to the best possible extent, if one wishes. We do so, as several other rapporteurs have said, by the fact that the complainant himself must have an individual and current interest in the specific case. And then we are doing this with a member of the Presidency being able to decide on matters where, as it were, a practice has been established. Then, with the agreement, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, we also give the Institute for Human Rights the opportunity to refer cases to the Equal Treatment Board, which is of a principle or otherwise of public interest and can therefore be essential to deal with, even if there is no current complaint. So all in all, we actually believe that this is a good agreement and that this bill helps to ensure that we take steps towards a greater focus on the real challenges of safeguarding all equal rights. So the Radical Left supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113609	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the SF, Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508113623	I'm really happy about this change of law that's coming now, so we can go in and look at what we can do. This is especially because the government's starting point for discrimination was that they wanted to do something about all these cases... sometimes a little indifferent cases... that come up. So their starting point was that it's not good that there are 120 of these hairdressing cases. It's figuratively speaking, and not because the figure is what we're doing, we're saying that the President can reject similar cases, because there's really no problem with that, it's a good idea if you've dealt with the same case. But then it is also said that if you are not personally wronged, you should not be allowed to complain about a matter of principle. This is quite specific in relation to this case of male educators. In Denmark there are a great many in institutions which have special rules for male educators: you may, for example, have to. do not change diapers, they must not lubricate sunscreen on children, they must have children in a certain place on their laps. So indirectly they are told that they are such a little pedophile, and that is such a mistrust of our male educators. This means that if neither of them wishes to raise the matter, perhaps because they have a job that they do not want to lose, or they do not think it is a problem that there are these special rules, that case cannot be raised because the government's presentation was that it requires someone who is personally wronged. We said from the SF that it simply will not work. It is okay that the President may reject similar matters, but there are so many matters of principle which have an importance in relation to the equality debate. It matters that these male educators are, of course, treated equally with the female educators. It may well be that no one will raise the matter, but if that matter is raised, for example. in the public interest, it is necessary to travel. Or another case could be about a Muslim free school which only sends boys to camp school, but not the girls, but because there are no girls who will raise the matter, there is not a case that can be raised. But for the hell, if it was that this girl thought it was so unfair that she was discriminated against, then she probably didn't go to a school like that either. In fact, the SF managed to get through with the proposal that if the matter is such a matter of principle, even if there is no wronged person, the Institute for Human Rights must look into the matter and assess whether it is such a matter of principle that the Institute can then say to the Equal Treatment Board: 'You must leave anyway!' It could, for example, be done. be associated with male educators, Muslim free schools and a number of other things. The government has then chosen to listen to and listen to that, and I am actually very happy about that. I think it is a far, far better proposal than what the Minister originally presented. I am very pleased that we did not, in fact, end up weakening the possibilities of complaining, but that the Institute should get in on it. This means a great deal because, unfortunately, in the area of equality, the government has failed on a large scale. From the SF's point of view, we had a very difficult time living with the fact that we now also had to reduce the possibilities of complaining. There is one other thing I really want to mention, and it is this whole discussion about whether there should be equal access to complaints or whether it should be the purse that should decide whether to complain. If you are already discriminated against, you feel quite lonely because someone has discriminated against, and besides that you have to go out and try to prove that it is actually right. That's why I'm really glad there won't be a fee. Now there are more who have mentioned all sorts of other places where there is a fee, but there is not a fee, for example. in relation to the Press Board. There you can complain that the press has hung you out or something, without having to pay anything for it. In fact, I am in favour of equal access to redress, so I am very pleased about that. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114105	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114111	It is really just a clarification question, because I could understand from the SF's rapporteur before, when I myself stood up on the platform and the SF's rapporteur could ask the question, that the draft law was a weakening of the Equal Opportunities Board. And now I hear the SF's rapporteur standing on the floor praising the proposal and saying that it is a strengthening of the Equal Opportunities Board. So now I have some doubts about where the SF stands. Will the Equal Treatment Board be better or worse by this bill? Because it can't be both.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114144	SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114148	So, if the Social Democrat rapporteur had listened, he would have heard that I actually said that the proposal put forward by the government was to weaken the Equal Opportunities Board. This is something that cannot be avoided when, on the one hand, you say that a complainant must be personally wronged in order to be able to complain in a case, while, on the other hand, you do not close the gap that is called: who will then take these cases of their own motion? The Equal Treatment Board does not have that option. With the SF's proposal, we have ensured that the Institute for Human Rights will have that opportunity. So the huge hole the government was creating, we've closed. It is clear that the first government proposal was a weakening of the Equal Opportunities Board. Politiken also said this: when you go in and restrict people's ability to complain in absolutely crucial and fundamental matters, it is clear that then you weaken it too. But now it is the case that the matters of principle will be dealt with by the Foundation, and they will be able to order the matter to be brought before the Court. Actually, I think that's a really good idea. But the government has been so concerned about these trivial limits that it had actually forgotten during its work that there are also matters of principle which do not necessarily include a person who is personally wronged but where matters are absolutely crucial for raising a case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114305	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114308	I don't know if people who come with me got smarter. I just asked, is the Equal Treatment Board being strengthened or is this bill weakening? Because I think that if you have followed the debate at home and heard the SF's rapporteur, you have some doubts about where the SF is actually in this. Is it a legislative proposal that strengthens the Equal Opportunities Board or a legislative proposal that weakens the Equal Opportunities Board?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114336	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114340	Well, I don't think people have any doubts about where we stand. That is just the mantra that the Socialists have to say, regardless of the rapporteur from the SF who is on the platform. As it is right now, there is no improvement. It's what it is. The only difference is that now the mention cannot raise cases where there is no person personally wronged. Now it is the Institute for Human Rights that must do so and in this way give a mandate to the mention. Well, there's not much difference. I'm not standing here cheering and saying it's amazing that now it's running. It is as it was before, but now we have just brought in another institution, the Institute for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114424	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114438	In fact, I think I will start with a relevant question: why should we even amend the equal treatment law? I believe that there are at least two things that make it relevant. It is about showing that the name actually does a great deal of work to guarantee ordinary people their rights, whether it is about racial or gender discrimination. Unfortunately, we know that, at least in these areas, the lack of equal treatment is striking. Unfortunately, however, we have seen lately that some decisions are a little about what can be called ridiculous cases, not least in the area of gender. I am not going to assess it, but it is being ridiculed by the press and thus getting less support from the public. I know that there are some who would like to close the Equal Treatment Board and they will get away with their case. I would like to stress that the Equal Treatment Board is indispensable to safeguard us against discrimination, and I will defend it with my beaks and claws. That is why I think it is a good thing for us to tighten up so that only people who have a personal legal interest can have their case dealt with in the list, and, following that, we have to carry out cases of Presidential decisions in cases where a firm practice has been established either in the courts or in the courtroom, which has previously taken decisions in cases of a similar nature. All in all, I believe that it is some improvements in the law that make it more effective and are targeted at defending equal treatment, but one of the best things about the bill is that the Institute for Human Rights has the competence to bring matters of principle before the Equal Treatment Board, not least when in the future it can only be people who have a personal legal interest. This may otherwise mean that some major matters of principle are not taken up in the list. That is why it is important for a body such as the Institute for Human Rights to have the opportunity to deal with matters before the Equal Treatment Board. We know cases of men who are not allowed to change diapers in the crèche and white home care cases. These are important matters of principle, so I am glad that we have convinced the Minister that we need to give the Foundation the opportunity to take up matters. I also think it is good, when the Minister emphasizes in the consultation note, that it will also be possible in future to address general questions to the Equal Treatment Board. I know that a number of trade unions make use of it, so it's really good. Finally, I should like to point out that the Danish Employers' Association and also some of the bourgeois rapporteurs say time and again that there should be a fee for complaining. I just want to say it's nonsense. Either the fee will be too small to give what they call the behavior-regulating effect, as they claim, or the fee will be so high that those who really need to use the Equal Opportunities Board will suffer. After all, it is a good thing that no fee will be introduced to complain to the name. So, all in all, this is a good proposal, which we can of course vote for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114740	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Merete Riisager as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508114749	We are now dealing with the Equal Opportunities Act, L 197. It is a law which deals with a debate which the Liberal Alliance has been very much active in..... I would almost say that the Liberal Alliance might have started the debate by saying that we should have a small limit in the equal treatment board. That is why I would like to start by saying that it is really positive that we can have debates across parties where the government simply listens to common sense, even if they are not forced to do so in terms of mandate. Having said that, in the Liberal Alliance we have the view that the model that has been created here is not the model we would have proposed, but we recognise, as I said, that something is actually being done. After all, the task of the Equal Opportunities Board is to protect the interests of the citizens, and we have been in a situation where it has been difficult to see that this was actually what it did. It is clear that it is not a board's job to bother citizens in their ordinary daily activities, including running a hairdresser shop, going to a knitting festival, organising an event to combat cancer in a football stadium, setting up a women's roof in a hotel, etc. etc. The task of this board is, of course, to safeguard the interests of citizens in cases where they have actually been discriminated against, where they are in a situation and want to do something and have not had the opportunity to do so, where they have simply been discriminated against on the basis of their sex, their religion, their ethnicity or their age. It is important that we have a look at what the nature of the cases that come into the board and are dealt with is. It is therefore not enough for a citizen to feel this feeling is not interesting, what is interesting is whether there has been a real violation. That is why I believe that we must legally enter and work on what the motive is. This is also done in a great many other areas where you see what the motive for an action is: you can't just look at the action itself. Many examples can be given, but one example where there is real discrimination may be when there was apartheid in South Africa. You had two benches, one for the blacks and one for the whites. And if one looked only at the action, one could say that everyone got a place to sit, everyone could sit down, but the motive was so clearly discriminatory that there was a great deal of discrimination. Another example, which is from today's Denmark, is this with hairdresser prices. I would say here that there is no discrimination; this is a practice in which hairdressers have found out for many years that women generally spend more time in the hairdresser's chair, and then prices have been set accordingly. It's not about the hairdresser wanting to demean women, put them lower or put them back in line. It is simply a practical measure and one can also imagine a situation in which women who are short-haired can negotiate at a completely different price at a particular hairdresser. The knitting festival is another example they have provided free access for some older gentlemen. It is not a question of demeaning men or of considering them worse to pay the entrance ticket; there is no demeaning view of elderly gentlemen who are at stake there. At the same time, we also have cases which are not dealt with in the Equal Treatment Board. It has also been mentioned here from the platform, for example. the many male educators who work every day under some guidelines, which in fact, I believe, are discriminatory. They can't change diapers, they can't give a hug, they can't take kids on their laps. It can be said that it is a question of defining male educators on the basis of an unreasonable notion that they are potential sexual invaders, and the way they are then defined becomes really destructive to their work. In the Liberal Alliance, we would clearly have preferred to have made a fee, a fee which said something about the fact that when a complaint was lodged I think it is quite reasonable, it has been done in all sorts of other areas and, in addition, that you have made this distinction of discrimination. I therefore believe that this is a road on which we must take action and on which we must continue to work, but at the same time, as I said, I would like to credit the government for having listened to common sense and, after all, have made a model, even though it is not the one that we in the Liberal Alliance would have chosen. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508115259	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then that's the next speaker in line. It is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as rapporteur for Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508115312	I would say that we in the Conservative People's Party have found it absolutely necessary to do something about the Equal Opportunities Board. In other words, if the Equal Treatment Board is really to function and if the real discrimination cases in this society are to have a place and space in the Equal Treatment Board and in the public debate for us to take them seriously, then it is absolutely essential that the silly cases, which several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, do not take up our time, do not take up the time of the Equal Treatment Board and, moreover, shed a light on the equality debate, which makes it seem like such a completely foolish thing, which there is no reason to take seriously. Because there have been a number of cases that have really not been a reason to take seriously, and unfortunately they are, of course, focusing on those matters which need to be taken seriously and which also need to be given priority in, for example, resources. The Equal Opportunities Board shall be replaced by the Equal Opportunities Board. That is why we took an active part in the negotiations to get something done about this. We can also support the proposal here, but it should not be a secret that we would have liked this to look something different. One way to define this is, of course, what is being proposed in the proposal, that one should have an individual and current interest in a case and not just be able to complain about anything, anywhere, at any time. That may well be an excellent and sensible definition, but it does create the problem that we have had to discuss, namely what about the fundamental issues? What about the cases in which the offended person, who has actually been violated, does not have the courage or the desire, or what do I know, to complain? You know very well in these cases that if you complain, you stick your nose out, and it can be really unpleasant, and you can also fear that it has consequences, for example. In the circle. That is why it is important that others can also complain. It's so solved in the form of this solution with the Institute for Human Rights. As things stand right now, and with the political agreement and the breadth of the circle, we think that this is a way of resolving that problem. But it's a patch solution. We believe that it should also be possible to have a complaint here about the Institute for Human Rights, because what we are really doing here is that we deposit our right to be indignant on behalf of others in one place. We're depositing our opportunity to solve these cases, which we may be able to see openly discriminates against our neighbor, our friend, our aunt, somewhere else, unless they want to. We actually think that's a shame. To the whole of this discussion about fees, which some think should be in the way of these matters; should stand in the way of resolving them, I would say: no, quite the opposite. A fee will, of course, help to pave the way for the real issues to be dealt with. It will give us all the opportunity to raise matters if we believe that there is indeed a problem, even if we do not have this individual and current interest in the matter. In fact, it can often be very parallel to what you have in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, and therefore it is also relevant to compare there. After all, it is a question of something going beyond the nature and environment of all of us and that it is not necessarily just ourselves that is at stake. So we'd love to see that. For our sake, we could make all kinds of restrictions on this fee. It could be said that if you had the personal and individual interest, you could be completely exempt from the fee. For our sake, we could also set the fee as low as $25, so it's not the money it's about. Because what is important to us when it comes to the fee is that you think twice and that you think about whether this is just something I think is a little fun and funny, because it could give a funny story, or whether it's something I actually can invest some time and a little bit of trouble in. Because this thing with a fee isn't just a question of the money, especially if you have a good case, because then you get it back. But there is also a question that it takes just a little to get them transferred, and now you want to, and then you can't • if it was 25 kroner. So we hope that at some point we can obtain a single majority in favour, because we believe that it is absolutely essential that we do so. We think it's a little too bad we should find this patch solution. So we hope to find such a solution. Nor do I think there have been any good answers from the rapporteurs who do not want to, to why it is okay to do so in other Boards of Appeal when it is not in order here. I find it strange that we should then have a discussion on user charges. No one has proposed user charges. There are some who have proposed fees that are even being paid back. So I hope that at some point it will come over the Socialist rapporteur to answer this question, i.e. more whether it is a general policy, or whether it is not. But for us, it is therefore a question of making room for the good things, the right things, those that need to be dealt with. We are doing this to some extent with this proposal. That is why we support it. But we hope at some point to get the majority to improve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508115839	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then the trip has come to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508115851	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate here. As has been shown, this is, of course, very much about the fact that we are focusing on real gender issues, and I think we have actually come a very good way along the way, and I am pleased with the breadth of the agreement. I also believe that the draft law will ensure that the name uses its resources in the best possible way, partly because in future it will only have to deal with a complaint if the complainant himself has been in a situation where he has been unlawfully discriminated against, partly because in future it will be possible for members of the Presidency to decide only in cases where a firm practice has been established. Then the draft law also takes into account, as several people have said, that there may be cases of a more fundamental or general public interest. And here, as several rapporteurs have said, we are getting the Institute of Human Rights across. So all in all, I am really happy about the bill we have here. And the committee work that is now in place will help to go as easily and painlessly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120002	Thank you. It was quite brief and clear. No one wanted short remarks, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120026	The debate is open. The first speaker is the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120056	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out that this proposal, which is aimed at preventing social problems, has been put forward in an area where it is my overall view that it makes very good sense to focus on preventing social problems before they grow large. As I understand it, a model such as the Skandia model works, and that is the one we are discussing, so that the model calculates where and how much the user • in this case a municipality can possibly save purely financially, i.e. in crowns and ears, if, and I stress if, it could then be drug addicts, it could be people with mental disorders, or it could be people with lifestyle diseases. A model similar to the Skandia model can be a tool in the municipalities' priorities. It may be very sensible to keep track of the potential for revenue and expenditure in relation to the priorities for social action. It is also important to stress, however, that the model does not and it is with the emphasis on not calculating the impact of the preventive interventions, but gives an estimate of the magnitude of the financial impact that will come if a given number of persons do not end up in a exposed group. The model can, if I may say so, price the cost of social problems and thus also the benefit of solving social problems. It cannot, on the other hand, say anything about whether social problems are actually solved by various means. You can't know that on this basis. This means that the municipalities themselves must assess how many people, as a result of preventive action, will avoid ending up with, for example. a drug abuse, a lifestyle disease or mental illness. This assessment is extremely difficult; it is subject to great uncertainty. And when it comes to implementing an economic model similar to the Skandia model, the government has, I think, a sound principle that recognising concrete behavior effects should, as a rule, be based on actual experience with the effects of past policy changes. In the context of economic policy initiatives, including public investment, there are always estimates of behavioural effects where practicable. Education is an example of an area where changes in employment, wages and productivity are estimated as a result of concrete initiatives. In the field of employment, to take another example, derived behavioural effects are recognised, where appropriate and practicable, and typical behavioural effects may be longer or shorter unemployment or employment cycles as a result of a concrete initiative. The behavioural effects and empirical data are taken into account, a real empirical basis which indicates that there is likely to be a significant effect and that the basis is considered sufficient to assess the effects with reasonable certainty. On the other hand, in a number of other areas there are no fixed points to estimate the dynamic impact of public investment, but the Ministry of Finance is already monitoring developments in the available methods and data bases in order to improve the calculation principles wherever and whenever possible. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120436	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120442	Thank you to the Minister for Finance, but unfortunately not for his conclusion. I do not really think that the Minister for Finance is dealing with what the proposal is about. This is because we want the government to investigate the possibilities and possible obstacles to implementing an economic model similar to the Skandia model. That is what the proposal is about. Why is it so opposed? I do not think the Minister has given any justification for this. The Minister may well disagree, for that matter, with the need to implement models of this kind. I would also like to know what the Minister's position is on this. But that is not what this is all about. It is not, of course, a position on whether it is exactly the Skandia model. It is a proposal that the government undertake the task of examining how to implement such a project if necessary. I think the Minister is right in saying that these figures that come out of models like this are only whistles. It is quite the same as when the Minister drives into a spreadsheet over in the Ministry of Finance, that if we take some money from the unemployed, we increase the supply of work and then they get into employment. So I guess one model doesn't have much to say on the other model. The key thing is that in Sweden you work with this model. Why will the Minister not be involved in setting up a work so that we can examine what it could be used for and how it could be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120616	I think we are close to a situation in which the questioner answers his own question, precisely in the last part of it, where it is pointed out here with the other methods we use and then the method being discussed today. Contrary to what the questioner says, there is a significant difference between the calculated behavioural effects we take into account in the economic models in the Ministry of Finance and the approach we are discussing here today, namely that the effects we put in, and that is also what I am trying to say in my reply, are based on a real empirical basis on behavioural effects. They are based on experience of how things work in practice. The premiss for this model is not that you operate with any kind of experience of how things work in practice, but only with estimates of whether things can be put into practice. That is why there is a fundamental difference between what we are doing and what is being proposed here. That doesn't mean we're against the model. We think it is quite good and that it makes enormous sense that they work in the municipalities to use it in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120714	Sir. Finn Sørensen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120715	Thank you. If the Minister thinks that the model is a good one, why not help to set up a job so that we can have a more thorough study of the possibilities and possible obstacles to implementing such an economic model here in Denmark? I still miss an answer to that. After all, I do not impose a position on the Minister, and now the Minister even says that he thinks it is a good model, and that is an argument for getting to work. But is it possible that there may be a fear that such a model would come into conflict with the Finance Minister's budget law and that he would not agree with his Minister for Social Affairs, who has told A4, that he would like to look at the possibilities of looking better beyond one budget year? This is necessary if an investment is to be made. Is that what's bothering the finance minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120806	Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120807	No, in general, I do not consider myself to be particularly troubled at any point, even on this point at all. It is quite good if the municipalities choose to use this excellent model. It is just quite different from what we use in economic policy, where we do not operate with ifs, but where we operate with expectations that we can have on behavioural effects, based on the experiences we have already made ourselves on actually heavy empiri ^ which we are, moreover, continuously following in the development of and continuously changing and improving on the basis of completely objective criteria. That's how I think it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120845	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then we turn to the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508120910	Let me start by saying that it has been incredibly interesting to follow the actual reception of this so-called Skandia model since it was presented back in September 2014. A wide range of parliamentary parties, including my own, have actually welcomed the model with enthusiasm, and I think this is basically due to the fact that we have a rather high demand for knowledge about the effects of our social policy. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Board, it has been claimed that it is actually less than 10%. of the approx. 40 billion. kr., we spend every year on helping socially vulnerable children and adults who have a documented effect. When it comes to the cost of not doing anything, we may have groped blindly. The Skandia model presents us with a tangible figure, 72 billion. kr. This is what it costs to approx. 8% of an adolescence end up in what they call the outside cabinet. I do not think anyone disagrees with the fact that these figures are simply too high. The message behind the Skandia calculations is that we must prevent, it is cheaper to prevent than to cure, that we must succeed with early preventive action, and I very, very much agree with those messages. That is why I, like the proposers, want us to have even greater focus on prevention and early action, not to save money, but to ensure a good start to life for everyone. The problem is, as the proposers rightly say, that many municipalities today do not make the necessary investments in prevention, because prevention costs money here and now, while the human and economic price may only be paid or shown up later in life. However, I disagree slightly with the proposers that this problem can be solved by implementing such a general economic model, because this proposed economic model calculates at an overall level. It gives an estimate, as the proposers themselves say, for an economic effect, but it does not show the impact of the social efforts of the municipalities. It can guess, but it can't show the change, and that's where I think there's got to be other ways. In the Left, we will focus our efforts in two places. Firstly, there must be much more knowledge about the impact of the interventions. We need a knowledge-based effort to ensure that all specialized social interventions are measured on their results on the basis of concrete validation requirements. This will in fact be a first important step towards the municipalities being much better able to evaluate their efforts and compare the efforts and results of them across municipal boundaries and across actors. At the same time, therefore, it will also help to enable social actors to demonstrate what efforts have been made in the social field and, more importantly, with what effect. Secondly, we need to ensure that municipalities have the right incentives to prevent, and that is why I want us to start an investigation into what these rules are and what they are today preventing municipalities from investing more long-term in prevention. Because it must never be rules or bureaucracy that prevent municipalities from prioritising early action. In conclusion, I would just like to say that there needs to be more than one economic model to ensure early action, not because economic models cannot be useful, but because the social area is precisely more complex than that. So, although I support the intention of the proposers, the Left will not support the proposal, and it is a question of including in the proposal a legislative proposal on the concrete model. However, the investigation is not a bad idea, so I really hope that together we can look at how we can ensure that we put in place early and ensure that no one lives in the outside cabinet even after a parliamentary election. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121332	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121334	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the first half of the speech, in which the rapporteur said that this is a very good model, after which it was said that it would not work at parliamentary and government level. Again I have to say that the rapporteur should read the motion for a resolution. I am sorry if it is not written clearly enough, but what it says is that the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to investigate possibilities and possible obstacles to implementing an economic model similar to the Skandia model. The rapporteur himself said a little about why municipalities do not make the preventive investment, which is common sense to do. Why don't they? It was perhaps a very good idea to have an investigation carried out, and that is what is the proposal. That is what this is all about, so I do not really understand why the rapporteur does not want to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121429	Now Mr. Finn Sørensen is kind enough to read out part of the motion for a resolution, but the last part is the one that decides our position, because it says here that, on the basis of the analysis, the government must put forward a legislative proposal on the economic model. There's just what I'm saying is there's no quick fix solution to this problem. I do not in any way deny that we should investigate the area. I would also like to say that we will do so after a parliamentary election in relation to the Skandia model itself, but it is not the Skandia model that can be the economic model alone. There is not a one size fits all-solution that means that now you have to work according to the Skandia model. The analysis and understanding of it, the whole approach to it and the whole insight into what the outside is costing in Denmark, I am very interested in, but the proposal as it is assembled, and with exactly the last part about having to follow a bill, is actually what makes us reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121529	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121531	Thank you. I don't know if this is due to some excessive fear of what might be in those sentences. There is no mention of legislation on the Skandia model. It says that work needs to be started to examine the possibilities and possible obstacles for implementing such a model, and work needs to be done on this over the year, so that any legislative proposal can be tabled by the end of 2015. That's what it's all about. I do not think I can convince the rapporteur of this, because the rapporteur has put something into those sentences which I am not sure I can wiggle out of the rapporteur's brain. But then, instead of asking whether the rapporteur is prepared to try to draw up a report in committee, where we will have something written about our view of this Skandia model and try to make progress with the work in some way. Because I also find it interesting that the rapporteur has on how we can actually measure the social effort. That's part of this whole problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121630	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121631	It is an outstretched hand that I will accept, because I actually agree with what is behind it, which is about interest in this model. Then it may well be, as the rapporteur says, that the problem is perhaps because one has not been clear enough in the resolution itself, in other words in the text itself. Because when you write that it is for the purpose of putting forward a legislative proposal, I am inclined to say that this does not end up with a legislative proposal for an economic model for the municipalities. But to learn more about the Skandia model and analyze it and make a report I accept. We'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121708	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508121724	The proposal here gives us the opportunity to discuss prevention and the cost of social marginalisation, and we think that is a good thing. On the whole, it is an important part of our policy to have a strong common welfare society, to invest in people, to prevent, to provide a proper social policy and to provide every opportunity to create a good life, to marginalise as few people as possible or to find themselves in a vulnerable situation. It also has some costs when it happens. In addition to the purely human one, one can calculate it economically, and a model such as the one mentioned here by Enhedslisten is then an attempt to do so, i.e. provide an overview of the economic costs of social problems as well. And it is indeed good to see that, in addition to human costs, it is also expensive for society. These days, when elections are approaching, I think that despite an outstretched hand and so on. from the Left to examine the fact that it is impossible to avoid that if zero growth is introduced in the public sector, saving 20 billion. kr. In relation to the course taken by the government, it will have consequences for what you will then be able to do when you have finished looking at things and will actually try to do things that cost money now and here. I think it would be exciting to follow the municipalities in Denmark, who are now trying to use this model, and see what they find of potential savings by making better preventive efforts. The problem is then, as the Minister for Finance also mentioned, and I feel covered by that, that the model doesn't answer how to do it. Well, what are those things that work? How much do they cost to do? What exactly is the total calculation? So a model like this solves only one part of the task. And what the government is doing is following the experiences and results of various interventions and seeing what actually works. This has been the part of this task that we have been most focused on and will continue to be focused on. I think it is a good thing that this model should be included in the political debate. It is good that some municipalities will use it. But it is not the government's policy to end up with a bill that says that all municipalities should use it, among other things. Because it does not answer the question of how to actually do the prevention. I have no doubt that some good things can come out of the fact that we have this debate and there is an overview of the costs of social marginalisation. Otherwise, I feel covered by the slightly longer remarks made by the Minister for Finance at the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122003	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122006	I agree that the model, the Skandia model, does not tell us how to make the concrete social effort, nor does the Minister for Finance's calculation model on labour supply tell us how people get to work. It is strange that when you talk about such icy, square economic models, which are about labour supply, there is no limit to how many forces you want to use to make such ones. But when there is a proposal for a model of social investment that can prevent and heal and that we save people and societies a lot of problems, then one does not really want to go into it. I just have to say that this is the way it is. After all, I agree with the rapporteur's criticism of what the Left's zero growth will lead to and that it may then become a little contradictory that one would like to support such a Skandia model but, on the other hand, low zero growth which would make it impossible to use it in practice. However, does the rapporteur not also agree that the budgetary law which the rapporteur is responsible for will actually stand in the way of the use of a Skandia model of this kind, because it will of course prevent long-term investment that causes deficits over a period of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122121	In fact, I do not agree with the interpretation that Mr. Finn Sørensen is coming with us. Firstly, I think you pretend that the model you are talking about can do more than it can. It may well be the diagnostic part, that is to say, what is really the cost of social marginalisation? But that, sir. Finn Sørensen talks about it being able to answer what you do about it, and it can't. I think I was sometimes told in my opening remarks that I think it is good that a model like this exists, and I think it will be exciting to see what the municipalities in Denmark who have now decided to work with it find out. And it is far more than the six municipalities that will do it now, free to do it later. But it does not answer what preventive action it is that you have to take and what the effect will be of them. Secondly, I disagree with the considerations surrounding the budget law and disagree with the description in the resolution. I have read it and I think it is taken too lightly that we should, of course, ensure that the municipalities comply with their budgets. We have managed to do this as a government, which has not succeeded in the past. And there is certainly a huge incentive for the municipalities to do something now and here that can save them money later. It is there for the state, but there is also a strong incentive for the municipalities themselves to reduce the social costs of prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122246	Sir. Finn Sørensen for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122247	Thank you. I think it is a pity that the rapporteur is distorting things. No one claims that this model tells us what social policy action is to be. That's not the point of it. After all, it is up to the municipalities to find out what social policy should be like, isn't it? Well, let us now discuss on a real basis. However, when the rapporteur says that the budget law is no obstacle to social investment, it means that the budget law allows a municipality to exceed the budget by, for example, 1% or 2%, in the expectation that the investment which has then been made in extra staff in the social and employment field and with mentors, and what do I know, will return home in a shorter period of time? Is it possible for a municipality to exceed its budgets on that basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122341	We have to go back to the record, but I do not really think that is true when Enhedslisten calls it a model to avoid social marginalisation, and that was something like that, Mr President. Finn Sørensen said a moment ago. It can only take the diagnosis part and not answer how to avoid it. But now I think we agree that this is the case. That's how I hear it, sir. Finn Sørensen says now. In other words, the budget law is quite clear in that we will not allow the municipalities to exceed their budgets. Once we've agreed with them what they have to work with, they'll have to keep those budgets. I know that Enhedslisten looks at this a little less strictly than we do, but we have a total financial account in this country that we have to make sure that things are under control. I shall be brief and just say: yes, the municipalities have the opportunity to invest in something that will prove to be a good business for them and help some people who will otherwise find themselves in a vulnerable situation, even if there is a budget law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122439	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Morten Marinus as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122448	Thank you. The proposal to use an economic model to prevent social marginalisation is the heading of the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. As a starting point, it is a headline with which the Danish People's Party could agree. Unfortunately, we see that the municipalities are cutting offers for more children and adults in this group that we are talking about. Unfortunately, the economy that the government has given to the municipalities in recent years offers them nothing more than cutting. The Danish People's Party agrees with Enhedslisten that it is right to invest in this group of citizens, but we probably do not see that it is a uniform model that can be used throughout Denmark. However, the Danish People's Party wants to be a part of working with Enhedslisten to start this work, which can shed light on the benefits of breaking the social heritage. In the Danish People's Party we want several different tools and models that the municipalities can use. We thought in the first place about the proposal here that Enhedslisten was only aiming for one economic model to standardise social action, and we would not wish to do so, but I have already heard in the debate today from Mr Delors. Finn Sørensen that this is not the case and that it is primarily a question of examining the possibilities and removing any obstacles. So if that is the case, the Danish People's Party will be able to support the proposal. However, it must be said again that since the motion for a resolution, which the rapporteur of the Left has already mentioned, also states that the study must be completed with a view to a possible legislative proposal, we cannot, in advance, say anything about what we would think of such a bill, since we do not really know what is going to be in it. In the first place, however, we are very much in favour of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution to investigate and remove any obstacles in this area. We look forward to further work, and in the first place we support the Enhedslisten proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122644	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122646	But it is not a question, it is just a receipt of the rapporteur's positive attitude, and I would like to note that it sometimes helps to repeat things and read out what is actually in a proposal, because then there are some rapporteurs who actually find out what we are proposing. So I'm really happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122706	Then there is one more brief comment from Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122714	I'm just gonna ask sir. Mr Marinus, that when you look at what social marginalization is and the cost of it, and then you want to take initiatives, which may be from state, regions or municipalities, to counter it, Mr Marinus, Mr Marinus, Mr Marinus, Mr Marinus, Mr Marinus, Mr Marinus, Mr Marinus, Mr Marinus. Morten Marinus then thought that you have the greatest chance of it if you have 20 billion. kr. more to work with in the public sector by 2020, or he will think that it will be easier if you have zero growth in the public sector to do preventive work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122752	Well, the preventive work has to be done, no matter how much money you have at your disposal. The Danish People's Party is not in favour of zero growth, if that is the case, sir. Jesper Petersen is trying to fish out of me here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122803	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122804	Sir. Morten Marinus did not answer the question. Will there be more money to work with for prevention or less if zero growth is introduced in the public sector? The answer is given, namely that of course there will be less money, and yet the Danish People's Party supports a prime minister who is in favour of zero growth and has it as a cardinal point in his policy. So the Danish People's Party can make all the fine arrangements with Enhedslisten and others to do research on what to do to prevent what you want, because at the end of the day you will be sitting there with your hair in the mailbox, because all the money is fired off on tax cuts, and that's it, sir. Morten Marinus' promise to Enhedslisten today is worth it. Enjoy!
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122843	I repeat that the Danish People's Party does not vote for zero growth. When the election results are available, the Danish People's Party will work for what we have voted for, for all the votes we have received, and then I am sure that we can also have influence so that we do not get zero growth, even under a possible left-wing government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122902	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508122919	Thank you. We in the Radical Left think that the Skandia model is an interesting model. It is important that we have a holistic and holistic approach to the way we think about our national economy and our economy. This also applies to the way we make policy. It can be said that the inclusion of effects of social policy or of social investment makes it clear that the Ministry of Finance already recognises, cautiously and soberly, concrete behavior effects as long as they can, as it were, be based on concrete experience. So the behavior effect is something that the economic models already take into account. Then you can always discuss how much more they have to do it. That discussion is important, just as the overall intention behind the proposal to prevent social marginalisation is important. But we are against this resolution. We do not think that we should be required to say that we are now incorporating, for example. The Skandia model in the way the Ministry of Finance calculates. I think that we should follow developments and we should constantly try to learn and adopt when we find something new that is workable and that is compatible with the model apparatus we already have. So on the radical side we would like to sign for the very purpose behind the proposal, but we say no to the resolution itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123114	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Radical Left. There are no brief comments. Then it's the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123134	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think it is actually a good thing that Enhedslisten is raising this debate. In fact, I think that there are a great many positive bars. That is why I would like to start by saying that we are in favour of this, and also to see whether this can be something. I really think that this is a relatively small matter, namely to examine the possibilities and possible obstacles to implementing an economic model which must look at social marginalisation, which we must also recognise is an increasing problem in Denmark. That is why we are prepared to support the proposal. We have some questions on this, but I assume that we can take that during the committee procedure, but I think that both the intentions and the immediate presentation and content of it are very positive, and we welcome the fact that Enhedslisten and the SF seem to agree that we need to do something to combat social marginalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123225	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen was rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. It's Friday, we have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123247	The motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten is quite interesting, I think. It is, especially because it mentions the concept of outsideship. This is something that comes to us from the other side of the Sound, where a bourgeois government went to the polls to want to reduce the outside world. And the bourgeois government also very much succeeded in doing so. Thus, 200,000 fewer Swedes have come on transfer income in the years when the then bourgeois government, the Reinfeldt government, could carry out reforms. So outside is a theme in Sweden and has been reduced in Sweden as a result of a bourgeois reform policy. Outside it is that some people are excluded from normal social life, especially when it comes to employment and the secondary effects that often come from not being in employment: abuse, crime, social marginalisation, etc. In Denmark, we have seen a very sharp increase in the outside world over the last 50 years. Back in 1960 there were only 200,000 Danes of working age who were not in work but on transfer income. It has risen to about 800,000 today. So there has been a quadrupling of the outside cabinet in Denmark for the last 50 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123422	Could I just ask that we do not speak in the middle of the Chamber when there is a rapporteur on the floor?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123430	The reason why the outside cabinet has increased so strongly in Denmark is quite clear that it has made it less attractive to be in work in Denmark for the last 50 years. There has been an increase in the number of schemes that people could be on, and an increase in the amount of benefits provided by the schemes, so that fewer and fewer Danes support themselves, but instead are supported by the state. This causes some social problems. It causes social problems in that we know that in families affected by unemployment there are greater problems with abuse, there are greater problems with crime, there are greater problems with children who are not treated so well, family problems etc. etc. Research suggests that it is the unemployment itself that also affects the size of these social problems, the social marginalisation of the outside world. So the unemployment means you stay more outside this way. Of course, it is very, very interesting how we can get the outside cabinet down. Then there is the problem of Enhedslisten's proposal here to introduce the Skandia model. It is that it determines the cost of outsiders, but it does not prescribe how to deal with the problem. We have a lot of disagreement about that. We in the Liberal Alliance have very many good ideas on how to reduce the outside and, contrary to Enhedslisten's ideas, our ideas rest on an empirical basis on how to reduce unemployment in Denmark, while Enhedslisten's ideas rest in the blue air and are not based at all on the fact that it is the unemployment itself, that is to say, that you are tempting people not to be in the labour market, which is why the outside community becomes such a problem. But it is exciting with that model, and therefore it is also good that there are six municipalities that are already working with the model. Then things can go their way and their good way, as is the fact that some people start by examining whether things can be done better. If it succeeds, and if it goes well, it can form a school for others. If the six municipalities have positive experience of looking outside through the Skandia model and implementing solutions that can reduce the outside cabinet via the Skandia model, then it should certainly form a school for other municipalities. We are eagerly waiting for that. But we cannot support the resolution itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123721	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth as rapporteur for the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123728	Thank you, Madam President. The Conservative People's Party welcomes the debate. We then have the view that the Skandia model is an opportunity to take on board. A lot of people use it. We then think that a further step, such as that proposed by Enhedslisten, will be additional bureaucracy, and we do not think there is any solution in it. It is intended to investigate, but there is no basis for what to do. And there is no evidence-based knowledge of what is going to correct the actions that I also know from other contexts Enhedslisten is going to introduce. We know Enhedslisten's model. They are on a communist basis, and if not communist, then at least very, very left-wing socialist. We know that we want all possible measures. We think that the public sector is already too large and we think that we are dealing with many different things that go in the wrong direction, in the public sector. There I am, sir. Ole Birk Olesen's team. I think that we should concentrate more on promoting initiatives that make people take a job and take the burden of responsibility more seriously and ensure that there are incentives for it. So we think that the model that is works well, and then we think that it is in everyday life that we have to find out in mutual understanding what works and what does not work; what the human costs are; how we can counter it; how we can prevent it; how we can reinforce this model so that the cost to society and to the people on the bottom line is least possible. We cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123905	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508123926	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate. It has been interesting in many ways. Everyone agrees that prevention is better than cure, but then when you come up with a proposal for a model that could improve public authorities' ability to prevent and thus heal and save people and societies from a lot of problems, you make different bumps in order to avoid dealing with such a model and continue working with it. We are making every effort to read into the proposal everything that is not there, and we are referring to some other models which we ourselves think are much better, and that is of course interesting. That's really interesting. Representatives of, what are we to say, the vast majority in this Parliament, the Finance Minister and his good friends in the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance, etc., others who are in favour of the fiscal policy that the Minister of Finance stands for say that theirs is based on evidence. That's amazing. Should we just rewind to 2010, when the VK government, with the support of the Danish People's Party, introduced a daily allowance reform that had been through all these fine calculators to which the Minister of Finance refers. A really good result came out of those calculators back then. They said, yes, maybe 4,000 people will lose their benefit rights, and that's it. All the others would get to work because people get to work when we take some money away from them, whether they are unemployed or sick. Reality has shown that this was not the case. I don't give much for the evidence that machines operate, but it's a little interesting to refer to them as an argument for rejecting a model that is actually used in the real world over here in Sweden, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was and is so fond of, the way he sees Sweden. So it says a little about the zeal to try to understand what such a proposal could be used for. There is a need for new thinking in social work. It is true that there are not many experiences to build on here in Denmark. However, there is one interesting example that KORA has recently presented to us, which shows a massive investment in holistic municipal action towards people with a schizophrenia diagnosis. It is true that it is three times more expensive than the standard effort, where the municipality simply refers to doctors and psychiatrists, but the example shows that the holistic effort served itself in 2 years, when the standard effort has to be as high as 5 years or more, so that you can see that there is some economic improvement for the municipality. However, it is a simple example which is worth working with. The purpose of this proposal was, of course, to arouse the interest of the Minister of Finance in a world in which he may not be moving so much in advance. Unfortunately, this did not work out, but we were able to clarify one thing, and that is that the budget law which the Minister of Finance and all other parties here in the Folketing are so fond of stands in the way of social investment, because Mr. Jesper Petersen said quite clearly: No, a municipality must not exceed the budget for a single year, even if the excess is due to the fact that a social investment has been made in the form of, for example, a social investment. the recruitment of several case officers, in the form of making the holistic, interdisciplinary effort that the law prescribes to do. Even if you have exceeded the budgets for that reason, you must not do so, and that is certainly one of the things that is worth discussing in the further work. Then I have to take comfort in the fact that there is a single minister in the government who thinks it is a good idea and who is also prepared to continue working on it, namely the Minister for Social Affairs, Manu Sareen, who, in the letter A4 of 26 January, expressed his great sympathy for this Skandia model and where he said the following, and I quote: 'I would like to look at the possibilities of looking better beyond one year. It is still just a thought, but it could be some partnerships between, for example, the municipality and the state, where you are aiming for prevention over four years. Then the municipality could throw money in, and so could the state. You can do that with this Skandia model in your hand, says Manu Sareen. However, he stresses that for the time being there is no legislation on the road. No, I don't think so. The reports we got today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508124423	Thanks to Finn Sørensen. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508124459	The debate is open and the first speaker is the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508124508	Thank you very much. With motion for a resolution B 105, the authors of the motion for a resolution, i.e. the SF, propose that the government should present a statement on the budget law and sanctions against municipalities and regions, and that the government should therefore propose appropriate legislative adjustments. First of all, I would like to point out that with the budget law and with the sanctions against municipalities and regions, we have created a clear and responsible framework for economic policy in Denmark. The budget law and sanctions help to discipline overall expenditure management, which means that we do not see major budget overruns to the same extent as we have seen in the past, especially in municipalities and regions. It is absolutely crucial that we can maintain the credibility of the fiscal framework we have established so that confidence in the Danish economy can be maintained and we can benefit from the low interest rates that are currently prevailing. In this way, it is an independent consideration for the government that the overall fiscal targets should not be adjusted too often, as this would weaken the credibility of the framework of economic policy. As far as the budget law is concerned, it was adopted by a very broad majority in the Folketing in June 2012. SF was at that time part of the government, and the government voted together with the Left and Conservatives for the Budget Act, which came into force from the financial year 2014. So we have only one full financial year in this way, namely 2014, to base our experience with the Budget Act on. It is clear that when a new system of management of expenditure, which is the budget law, is introduced, there may be a need to evaluate the system after some time. At the same time, however, it is crucial that any revision of the legislation is carried out on a solid basis and that the necessary experience is gained before we begin to make changes to the legislation. Therefore, in the Budget Act itself, a revision provision has been inserted which provides that the Minister for Finance proposes a revision of the law in the parliamentary year 2018-19. It is in this way the clear position of the government that proposals for revisions of the Budget Act should only be made in the parliamentary year 2018-19 as laid down in the Budget Act. In relation to the specific criticism raised in the motion for a resolution that the budget law should provide incentives not to save, I would repeat what we have said in the past, among other things. The Economic Council and the Productivity Commission, namely that within the framework of the Budget Act there are quite wide scope for continuing and spending resources for each institution, and this applies in both the state, the municipalities and the regions. The relatively few restrictions we have imposed on the consumption of savings must of course be seen in the light of the need to deal with the budgetary risk posed by consumption of savings, and this must be seen above all in the light of the fact that, in the first two years of the budget law, there has been no buffer, either in relation to the expenditure ceiling or to the balance limits of economic policy. Finally, if we are to look at the limited experience we have with the Budget Act, we can see that the first year in the field of government points to the fact that, through central coordination, it has been largely possible to meet the wishes of the ministries for spending savings. So far we have managed to create a flexible system within a clear cost framework. So the budget law contains a balance where, on the one hand, there is flexibility and the possibility of long-term planning in the public institutions and, on the other hand, there is overall compliance with the expenditure ceiling and fiscal objectives. After all, the Budget Act and the accompanying sanctions ensure that the municipalities together have a clear responsibility to meet the agreed framework for the economy, and this contributes to ensuring credibility about overall expenditure management, and this is absolutely central to confidence in the Danish economy. With the new management system we have, expenditure in the municipalities has now been managed. It is clear that the municipalities must have time to get used to the new system, and we have seen some very clear signs that the municipalities are getting better and better at hitting the line from the bottom up, if that is to say, and making use of the spending policy framework that is made available. After all, the deficit limit in the Budget Act must be seen in the context of the fact that public finances in Denmark are very cyclically sensitive and a deficit limit of 0.5%. of GDP gives greater certainty that the actual government deficit does not exceed 3%. of GDP during normal recessions. Denmark has also set more ambitious targets for the structural balance in the 2010 and 2015 plans in the past than were claimed in the EU minimum requirements. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the Budget Act has created a responsible framework for economic policy in Denmark, and I think that the parties that helped to adopt the Budget Act can be very, very proud of that. It is vital to me that the credibility of the financial framework is maintained, and therefore it is also my view that we should allow the budget law to work so that any future adjustments are made on a solid basis of experience and not on a sense and criticism based on a very slender empirical basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125103	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125107	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. The budget law also includes other legal complexes, such as: I would like to say something about sanctions against the municipalities. It is a question which KL has raised several times, namely that they would actually like to get rid of the sanctions that the Minister of Finance has if the municipalities exceed the budgets and exceed the accounts. My question is, in fact, a very technical clarification. Does the Minister agree that this sanction for over-budgeting is something that the Minister can do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125155	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125156	This is a purely technical legal question, and I would just like to say something so incredibly untrue from the parliamentary platform, because it can have the most serious consequences. So the very precise procedure for implementing these sanctions I think I should get a precise description from the questioner. I think, as I have put it, that it is true that there is room for the Minister to assess whether there is an overrun which justifies a sanction. You do that year by year. But let's get this straight, that is, how the law works. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125233	Sir. Finn Sørensen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125234	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. I'm not gonna make myself a very clever lawyer, but I've just been trying to look into the law. And in the law on municipal compensations and general subsidies to municipalities in § 14 para. 5, it says that the Minister for Finance can be paid only if the municipalities comply with the budgets. That's how the short version of it. And there is a similar provision for the regions. My question is this: is it really understood that when it says it can, it is something the Minister can do, but he can also not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125313	I would normally see the concept of can. I certainly consider that to be correct. But let's get this straight. I think that is a good thing, and I certainly think that the questioner is quite wise. So that's not it. Let us get a precise description of the role played by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister for Finance in these courses. After all, decisions have been taken a number of times not to impose sanctions on the basis of the practice that has been practiced in municipalities and regions. And let us be very happy to have it described to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125347	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125350	I'm really just curious to know one little thing. Does the Minister of Finance recognise that it is a problem or a challenge that the municipalities do not actually spend the sum in full that is possible for them to spend on the basis of the annual negotiations between the government and KL and Danske Regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125410	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125411	I would like to give a balanced answer to that. Now I am quite enthusiastic about the law we are debating here today. I have something similar to a real love relationship with the budget law. I think it is a key condition for us to have the welfare and prosperity we have in Denmark at all. So I would like to cherish this very clearly. After all, there have been a number of years in which, if I may say so, the aim has been to make use of the framework that has been made available in terms of agreement. And that is where I feel that I do not think it can reasonably be blamed for the municipalities. I do not think it would be right to blame the municipalities for being cautious and ensuring that they do not exceed their budgets for sure. Then I think that the aim here, which we are gradually doing more and more, is about something so immensely boring, but also important, like financial management, that in municipalities and regions, but also in the state, where we ourselves are responsible as a government, we are getting better and better at having, as in many private companies, a very precise idea about the flow of expenditure that is through a whole budget year.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125515	The second brief remark by Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125521	Well, it will be relevant, even if you have a great love relationship with the legislation in question.I'm sure we can get fun out of that in other contexts too. However, what is relevant here is if it is not a challenge when an amount is actually allocated to the municipalities or regions and then you do not actually spend that amount in full. For what, after all, is a challenge in the annual discussions, when either Mr. Bent Hansen or the chairman of KL sits before the Minister of Finance and the other government officials, I suppose, is also that one rarely hears the municipalities say that they would like to spend less money but that they would like to spend more money. That is why it is also remarkable that, year after year in recent years, too little has actually been spent on what was actually possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125610	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125611	Yeah, but I guess it's something about me. I mean, I feel like I think it's a bigger problem if you spend too much than if you spend too little. That is my general view of everything that has to do with money. In addition, it has to be said that the fact that budgets are being subdued has created some spaces in the municipal and regional economies which have been used for, among other things. This is a matter for the benefit of our citizens. In addition, good financial management must try to get as close to the target as possible, and that is exactly what is being done at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125639	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Peter Christensen as the first rapporteur and he is rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125659	Let me start with the conclusion: the Left cannot support the resolution. Then why? If you go back to 2010, when we negotiated the sanction law, you will see that the Social Democrats, the SF, the Radicals and the Enhedslisten were outside the agreement that we reached. In the report, the four parties made it clear that they wanted to amend the sanction law, and I quote: "The minority do not share the Government's view that sanctions are the way to ensure that the economic agreements between the government and the KL are respected. ▪ Minority continues: When a new majority comes, these laws will be repealed and changes will be implemented that will give municipalities better financial frameworks, more freedom from bureaucratic retail management and increased self-government. Today, fortunately, things look different. The current one does not want to change the sanction law, while the SF, with this proposal, criticises that the municipalities comply with the budgets. This is perhaps a very apt picture of the government and its parliamentary basis. The government believes the exact opposite of what they did before the elections, while the SF is back in the role of opposition party after they have been a trip inside the government. Personally, I am delighted that the government can see the sense of the economic policy which was pursued under the auspices of the VK government, and it has also been carried on, as it stands in the government's constitution, in the broadest possible sense. The authors of the proposals believe that it is the fault of the sanctions that the municipalities spend too little money. I think that basically is a rather funny attitude towards taxpayers' money, the SF demonstrates here in the motion for a resolution. If you stay within the budgets, you've spent too little money. I would say that one has been responsible, that one has shown respect for the citizens' money, because the fact is that the sanctions have led the municipalities to comply with the budgets. Quite frankly, I see no problem in keeping with the budgets, because you only have the opportunity to spend the money once. I am sure that the budget law will pass both before and after the elections, and I would like to conclude by wondering whether SF would clarify their views on the budget law if there is no majority in favour of this resolution and how the SF feels about being a conciliation party and part of the budget law. In other words, if the SF cannot get a majority in favour of this motion for a resolution, do we still support the budget law and do not denounce the agreement we reached while the SF sat in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508125954	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130003	We have been through a serious economic crisis. Denmark was one of the European countries most affected by the crisis, and it has therefore been necessary to correct the Danish economy. That responsibility has been borne by the Social Democrats and the government. Since 2011, we have managed Denmark safely through the crisis of solidarity in Danish society. It has not always been easy, but it has been necessary. Municipalities and regions form a large part of the total Danish economy and it has therefore been necessary to ensure that municipalities and regions comply with their budgets, which in the 00s were repeatedly exceeded. The municipalities and regions have lived up to this since 2011, and there is good reason for commending the municipalities and regions here too. You have a large share of responsibility for the fact that as a society today we are economically much stronger and more robust. We can therefore see that it is important that we keep the economic framework that has been democratically decided. It creates confidence in the Danish economy, which in turn ensures a low interest rate for the benefit of growth and employment, for the benefit of citizens and companies. After we took over government responsibility in the Social Democratic Party, the unpaid bills are back from Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's reign has been paid, and Danish economy has once again been managed. Today, budgets are not just something we are talking about; that is something we are observing. The fact that the Danish economy is now under control also results. It is gratifying that we can see today that there is an increase in employment, a fall in unemployment, growth in the Danish economy in the last six quarters. Precisely because the economy and budgets are being kept under control, we can also afford to invest in the community again. This means that we have secured the municipalities a billion each year. kr. extra for care for the elderly and 750 million. kr. extra for better quality and more educational staff in day care institutions. We must, of course, continue along that path. We have therefore prioritised and financed the fact that every year in the future we can invest 3 billion. kr. extra in welfare. In contrast to the bourgeois parties that want to introduce zero growth, we can therefore also afford to invest in education and health in the coming years. This requires that we continue to respect the budgets and keep the economy under control. That is why we will also need the budget law in the coming years. With regard to the specific proposals from the SF, I would like to highlight the following: the Budget Act has only applied one financial year, which the Minister of Finance also mentioned in his speech. I therefore believe that we should stick to the planned revision of the Budget Act in the parliamentary year 2018-19, so that we have a more robust basis and years of experience to evaluate it on. With regard to the small consumption of municipalities, I also think it is worth repeating that it can be seen that the margin between accounts and budgets for municipalities and regions is becoming smaller and smaller every year. Finally, at any rate, there is the question of the structural deficit, in which I share the view that public finances in Denmark are highly cyclically sensitive, and therefore the deficit limit is 0.5 per cent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister. We shall not repeat that. We must not be put under administration again. With these comments, I must therefore inform you that the Socialists cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130412	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130422	Thank you. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the criticism made by the economic wise men of the way the budget law works. After all, in their autumn report in 2013, they pointed out that the budget law with expenditure ceilings and the whole pipe eye does not provide long-term planning in municipalities and regions, that it increases the risk of an inappropriate imbalance in the distribution of consumption over the year. This means in Danish that there is a risk that a very tight financial policy will damage employment development. The last criticism was that the budget law made it difficult to manage public finances in the short term. What is the rapporteur's view of this criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130514	I think it is important that we have confidence in the economy of Denmark. And since 2013, as I understand this coming from, we've been able to see that the municipalities have actually been getting better and better at hitting close to their budgets with the accounts since 2011. We can also see for the latest budgeting in the municipalities that you are hitting extremely close to the framework agreed with the government. So my perception of the situation and of the entire budget law and the sanctions legislation on this is that it has led to more accurate and better financial management decentralisedly. When it comes to managing economic policy in the course of the financial year, we have to say that there is already some experience in the state area that we can use the flexibility of the legislation and thus avoid this fuel burning. So I think the legislative complex here is as it should be, and animates for good financial management. I think everyone is happy about that, because then the economy in Denmark is under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130615	Sir. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130617	In other words, the rapporteur believes that the criticism of the wise men is totally mistaken. That must be the conclusion of what the rapporteur says. That is all right, but it is very nice, I think, for all of us to know that the rapporteur and his party obviously do not think that we are getting very much for the money for those wise men. I would just like to ask the rapporteur one more question: last year the accounts were in the municipalities of 2.4 billion. kr. under the budget. How many posts does the rapporteur think it is, for example? social and health assistants? How many fewer social and health assistants have arrived because of the fact that they are so far below the budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130704	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130708	As far as the latter is concerned, we have to say that the whole development in relation to the realised expenditure, i.e. the accounts in the municipalities, back from 2011 until now has been that we have come closer and closer to achieving the framework that we have agreed in the government with the municipalities. It is true that we then have 2.4 billion. kr. below. This corresponds to approx. 1% of the overall framework for municipalities in Denmark. So I think you're moving closer and closer and getting more and more accurate financial management. This means that the economy is managed in a decentralised manner, and it gives a really strong and good confidence in the Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130744	Thank you. There's no more questioners. Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130757	Thank you. The proposal here for a statement on the budget law and sanctions against municipalities and regions is a proposal that the Danish People's Party can support. We very much agree with both the title and the text. In addition, it could be nice if we in the Folketing could get beyond that, that we always talk about the municipalities together. Today we have 98 municipalities, and the economic muscles in these municipalities are very different. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party believe that the municipalities must comply with their budgets, but we want to help make a statement. In fact, we believe that it may also form the basis for the discussion that should come around this increasing urbanisation and social distortion that we have seen in Denmark in recent years. So it could also be exciting to get there. The Danish People's Party therefore supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130848	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130900	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Does this mean that the rapporteur has regretted his involvement in the budget law, that one is part of that conciliation and that one has also helped to impose the sanctions which, of course, give rise to the problems described?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130917	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130922	It is true that the Danish People's Party has been part of parts of the budget law. We continue to believe that the municipalities must respect their budgets. But what we have seen recently and can see is that some municipalities are busy spending money at the end of the year and that elsewhere you save money without spending money on, for example. welfare in the municipality. And in fact, we in the Danish People's Party want you to spend the money instead of saving, unless of course you have a concrete project that you save up for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130948	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508130951	Thank you. It's common sense, and it would have been nice if it were the snuff on which the law was based. I'm afraid it's not. Now I understand that the rapporteur has come up with some snuff, and I think that is very good. However, will the rapporteur terminate this conciliation so that a real debate can be held and a budget law can be put together that actually corresponds to reality in the municipalities and their need to make some investments sometimes, where the money can then be expected to come back later, among other things. in the form of any social investment that we discussed under the previous item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508131024	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508131027	Well, that is not what we are discussing today, i.e. whether or not to terminate the budget settlement. We would like to support this motion for a resolution on a statement, and then we will have to draw conclusions when we have it, if there is a majority in favour of it. And then we have to look at what needs to be done in the future. We support the things we have adopted, but we also think there is some sense in this resolution and we need to look first at what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508131044	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq for Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508131053	Thank you. The Budget Act, which we are discussing today, has only been effective in a full financial year in 2014. The Radical Left believes that there is a need for a greater basis of experience before a meaningful explanation can be presented and any adjustments made to the law. In the Budget Act itself there is also a provision that the Minister for Finance should submit a proposal for revision of the law in the parliamentary year 2018-19. It makes more sense than starting work now. Radical Left's immediate assessment of the budget law is that it has helped municipalities, regions and the state to get better control of the economy. The repeated budget overruns through the '00s, especially in the municipalities, have now been replaced by several years of budget compliance and economic governance, which is so reasonable that the money available in the municipalities has not actually been entirely spent. However, it has improved for 2014. The SF's motion for a resolution that the Government will present a statement on the Budget Act on 1 June 2015 contains three elements. Firstly, there is the question of whether the budget law prevents the consumption of savings. It should then be borne in mind that the law actually contains provisions that allow savings to be made across budget years. It is therefore possible to use savings from one year in the following year within a certain framework in both the state and the municipalities. This is, of course, a balance where there must be both flexibility across budgetary years and overall compliance with expenditure ceilings. The second is the question of whether sanctions have become too harsh. We note that they have actually helped to ensure that expenditure in municipalities and regions has been managed. This is an essential condition for maintaining the credibility of the Danish economy. This may not be one of the things we think about so much, but it is really important that there is the necessary credibility in the Danish economy. The third question is whether the limit on the structural deficit should be increased from 0.5 to 0.75%. of GDP should be seen in the context of the fact that public finances in Denmark are highly cyclically sensitive. A deficit limit of 0.5%. GDP therefore provides greater certainty that the actual government deficit does not exceed 3%. of GDP during normal recessions. An increase in this limit would increase the risk of Denmark exceeding the requirement that the deficit on the actual balance should not exceed 3%. of GDP. It is therefore the position of the Radical Left that proposals for revision of the Budget Act should only be made in the parliamentary year 2018-19, as already provided for in the Budget Act. With these comments, the Radical Left cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution B 105.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508131421	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508131434	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal. It would be good to have such a statement. However, I have to say that we very much disagree with the introduction to SF's remarks. They are not the ones we are voting on; they are the motion for a resolution itself. For here SF believes that the budget law helps to ensure stability and credibility about Denmark's economic policy. It is possible that the budget law helps to ensure the credibility of some major speculators. That is the very purpose of it and of the EU Finance Pact, which Denmark has signed up to and of which the Budget Act is a product. But the eagerness to be credible with the financial princes therefore has a high price, and it is the citizens who pay it through a large number of cuts, as we have seen over the last 5-6 years in the municipalities and in the regions. The budget law and the relevant sanctions legislation are a direct factor in the cuts we have seen, including during this period of government. In fact, it is a budgetary tyranny in which municipalities and regions are punished collectively and individually if they exceed budgets and accounts. This inevitably leads them to dare not spend the money they can spend, as we have seen in the last 4 years • also in 2014 • where consumption in the last 4 years has typically been around 5 billion. kr. a year, except last year, when it shrunk slightly to 2.4 billion. kr. under budget. Well, I asked Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup a question of how many social and health assistant positions there might be in these 2.4 billion. kr. It's like that with a punch on the bag about 5,000. When the municipalities spend less than they have to, it is again used against them in the subsequent year's economic negotiations with the government, because well well, then they do not need such a large service framework, and then we can lower it further. The fact is that the service framework in the municipalities has been reduced by 4 billion. kr. in the time this government has been in power. The result is that there are 13,700 fewer employees calculated as full-time positions in the bourgeois welfare areas in the municipalities. We therefore lack these posts in the day institutions, in schools, in the care of the elderly and among the case workers. In the regions, employment has increased by almost 5%, but productivity has increased slightly more than double. That is also a reduction, and that means that the staff run faster than ever before, what anyone who goes to a hospital can make sure of. The Minister of Finance will no doubt excuse the fact that the municipalities and regions themselves have signed the economic agreements, that they themselves have the responsibility to comply with the budgets, and that, moreover, the budget law does not relate to the specific economy. That is all absolutely right. In the Enhedslisten we also believe that KL and Danske Regions should not have signed agreements that lead to a deterioration in welfare. We hope they will remember this in the forthcoming economic negotiations. On the contrary, the cuts that have been made in the time of this government should be corrected. But that does not change the fact that the budget law, which all the other parties in this Chamber are so happy about, is a means of enforcing these cuts. That is why we are also in favour of a statement as proposed by the SF. We also think it is important to listen to the criticisms of the wise men. The law does not promote long-term planning in the municipalities. It increases the risk of an imbalance in the distribution of consumption over the year. It increases the pressure for fiscal policy to be unnecessarily tight, which goes beyond employment, and it hampers the management of public finances in the short term. It's the Wise Men's criticism from 2013. It would be nice if the Minister of Finance would listen to that criticism. It would also be nice if he took advantage of the limited possibilities provided by the law to ease sanctions against the municipalities. Sanctions against the municipalities for exceeding budgets are not something that the Minister of Finance must do; he can also do nothing about it, just as he can take the initiative of a more relaxed regime of sanctions in general. But now we've got a terrifying insight into the finance minister's love life in relation to this law. As you know, sir, this is the way it is. Minister for Finance, that love can blind itself, so you can only hope that it cools a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508131903	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508131911	We shall vote against this motion for a resolution, and for the same reasons that have already been mentioned by other rapporteurs for other parties on this platform, so I will not repeat that. I would just like to note the joyful event that the government no longer believes that it is a problem that the municipalities spend too little money. That's what the finance minister from the platform here said. He thinks it's a bigger problem if they use too many and that it's not a problem if they use too few. This is a completely new view on the part of the government. When Mrs Margrethe Vestager was Minister for Economic Affairs, she complained that the municipalities did not spend enough money, but the government no longer thinks so, and that is wonderful. It is, of course, a benefit to the citizens of this country and to the taxpayers of this country if it is not as expensive to run the public sector as it was expected to be. So any minor cost is a benefit to citizens. The public sector must not be operated more expensively than it needs to be operated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132018	Thank you. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mike Legarth, Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132028	Thank you, Madam President. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution, of course not. We have advocated a budget law, a sanction law. When we look in retrospect, we can see many years of annual overruns and large, large billions, which would then be found in the form of post-financing. So I think the budget law works. It's flexible. It ensures that the political agreements concluded and the budgets that are being put in place are respected. And it is a tool to ensure that the parties we have actually comply with the agreements that are being made, otherwise there is a consequence of that. It is working completely, and I disagree with the criticism that has been voiced by some that the exact amount of money is to be used. There is no need for the money if you do not need to spend it all to deliver the level of service you want the partout to be used. That would be a completely wrong view. We're vertically opposed to that. So we think we have seen that the budget law works completely as intended. So there is full support from the Conservative People's Party for it, but not for the resolution as it has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132142	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132152	Thank you. Thank you, too, for the comments made by the various parties and by the Minister for Finance. In the SF, we are behind the budget law, also just to answer the question that Mr. Peter Christensen left. It has also helped to ensure stability and credibility in Denmark's economic policy. That is actually what the motion for a resolution says, and we think that is basically good. It is also crucial for us that public expenditure should not run out of hand, as we unfortunately saw at the time when the VKO had the majority. Paradoxically, however, we have also ended up in the opposite ditch. Although we have allocated more money to children, young people, the elderly and the sick in the finance laws, there is a part of the money that has not been spent in the state, but also in the regions and in municipalities in particular. For example, in 2012 the municipalities spent 5.4 billion. kr. It is only possible to say that, as the Minister for Finance has rightly pointed out, it was only 2.4 billion. kr. Last year. But, on the other hand, it is still a quite, quite large amount which does not apply to what it is actually allocated to. In fact, we believe that this is at least what is quite fundamental for the SF • that it is important when funds are allocated to more educators, allocated funds to treat our sick, allocated funds to care for our elderly, that the money also applies, of course, to the places to which the money is actually allocated. We must recognise that this has at least proved to be a challenge because of the budgetary law that we are dealing with today. This is also the reason why we in the SF are proposing simply to advance the evaluation that has already been set up in 2018-2019, so simply to push it forward and get it started now, because we have to recognise that there are some weaknesses with the legislation that we have today. The reason why the country's municipalities and regions consume less than agreed is probably the financial sanctions. I do not think anyone has concealed that either today, but it also severely penalises overuse. I think it is a good thing that some sanctions will be retained if more money is spent than agreed, but there is also a clear need for some relaxation of the rules so that we help the municipalities to get rid of the under-utilisation that they currently have, so that they also have the opportunity to make full use of the funds they actually have at their disposal. That is why there are also some problems in the rules on sanctions, because they are too restrictive, and that is why we in the SF would like them to be looked at in the light of the statement that we have today called on the government and the parties of the Folketing to make. At the same time, it can also be considered whether the budget law should be made more flexible, simply because the inflexibleness we have today is forcing this fuel burning, as it appears to be in professional language, I can read from the wise men, because I think it is they who are using that remark, namely that at the end of the year you basically pour extra petrol on the car and simply burn it off because the money has to be fired off. It is not appropriate for anyone to shoot the money off in this way. On the other hand, it is appropriate to spend the funds on what they are allocated to, and perhaps to transfer them to the coming years, when they can then be used both more carefully, but at least not just burn them off because they must now be used. That is why we also believe that sufficient experience has already been gained, which should form the basis for a review and a statement to be made now and then it will be discussed in the conciliation circle. That is also why we are proposing that this work be started immediately so that we can deal with it as soon as possible. Then there are the comments that have been made by the various political parties. I welcome them both from Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti, although different reasons were used. The Enhedslisten is just generally opposed, and therefore they also want to help look at something they are just brave. In fact, I heard DF's announcement as a greater response, compared to the fact that it is actually good to make a statement, so that, on that basis, you can have a nuanced discussion about whether there are some challenges in the budget law that the Danish People's Party has also partly supported. I do not quite share the Minister for Finance's love for legislation, and you might also say that the one you love is being disciplined. But I think that sometimes you also have to keep in mind that, if you are to love someone, you need a nuanced element in it. Sometimes there is a need to give a little leash, but also perhaps to tighten the string. Perhaps a little more has been tightened up here, which is why we would like to see the possibility of relaxing as well. From the bourgeois side, it was over a broad circle that one backed up. I think it is a little sad that we cannot have a nuanced discussion about the fact that the money that is actually allocated in political agreements as funds in the municipalities, regions and also in government units must of course be spent on what they are allocated to, so that they also benefit citizens as much as possible. After all, that is what should be absolutely crucial. Otherwise, we can end up in a strange situation where we can just sit and grant money, while we can then watch them sand to other places in the public sector. So, with these comments, I would at least like to acknowledge the comments made by the parties on this, and then I also hope that we will be able to have proper committee reading, although I can see that it looks a little crowded in terms of creating a majority in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132656	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132701	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I was a little late, so maybe I didn't hear it, and then I'm sorry. But Mr. Peter Christensen asked a question earlier in his speech to the SF. He would like to know whether the criticism of the budget law now contained in this SF proposal will also lead to the termination by SF of the conciliation that SF is part of. Will the SF do that? That is one question. The second is whether the rapporteur has seen something in the law that took the SF by surprise. Is there anything in the way the Budget Act works and in the sanction regime that is with the one that has come to the fore on the SF that it was so bad and not very appropriate and is there something that was not warned about when we dealt with that legislation at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132806	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132810	As I also answered at the outset, the SF does not intend to terminate the agreement, but we believe that the review already agreed in 2018-19 should be brought forward so that the necessary investigations can be carried out now and an explanation made, and then you can assess whether to make some adjustments to the legislation. That is, of course, what is being proposed, and that is also what is in the motion for a resolution. So no, we're not going to cancel the deal. With regard to the small consumption, we believe that it is inappropriate for the SF to have a lower consumption. That is also why we are making this proposal. We would have liked the municipalities to go to the border to a greater extent. And it is clear that there is something that might suggest that the sanction regime is simply too harsh, because there are too few municipalities that dare to go close to the ceiling, and that is why we see the marked decrease in consumption. This is one of the things we from the SF would like to do something about, so that it can ultimately benefit welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132905	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132908	Thank you. Although Enhedslisten is in principle opposed to the law, we will certainly cooperate with SF and with all sorts of other parties to soften up on these conditions. So I hope then that the rapporteur heard that the Enhedslist supports the proposal and that it was for the introductory remarks that are included in the comments. So I just ask SF: why did one then contribute to legislation and enter into a settlement on this, when it was already clear at that time what the consequences could be? We were, of course, some who criticized the budget law from that very point of view and also criticised the sanctions regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132952	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508132954	I think that if we had to take account of all the places where Enhedslisten criticises something, it would sometimes be difficult for us to deal with other issues soberly. We are behind the budget law. In fact, we believe that it was a problem that there were municipalities spending too much money. That is why we actually thought it was right to look at a budget law and also to look at sanctions. On the other hand, we also recognise that some of these sanctions are probably too tight and that there is therefore too much consumption today. That is also why we would like to look at the adjustment of the legislation which, for us to see, will certainly ensure that we will have a budget law that will in every way fulfil both the intentions and ensure that there is neither small-scale nor over-consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508133035	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Finance and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508133101	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? This does not seem to be the case and then the proposal goes straight to the second and last reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508133130	The debate is open. We'll start with sir. John Dyrby Paulsen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508133153	Thank you for that, President. It is not every day that we are allowed to stand in for the rapporteur of the Left, and I shall refrain from saying what I think the Left thinks about this and go straight to what my party thinks about this bill. After all, this is a legislative proposal aimed primarily at the telecommunications industry. One might say that the reason why we are now dealing with a legislative proposal on this is quite serious. At the beginning of the '00s, we had this episode that lasted a few years. We call it today Titan Rain with a rather large, rather extensive coordinated attack on American interests. Supposedly, it must have been Chinese hackers who led this attack. Then Estonia, if I may say so, got one on the side of its head in 2007, at least in a cyber context, as what most people perceive as a Russian-inspired attack hit Estonia with great strength. So there are plenty of examples to refer to. These are examples that have done very much damage and perhaps could have done even more damage to so-called cyberattacks against various countries and interests in the world. The way the threat picture has developed over the last few years also means that it can be said with reasonable certainty that some of the attacks that are being launched are being launched with some form of state involvement. Unfortunately, one can say, because that means that many of these attacks can be extremely advanced. It also means that you have to be very careful. This means that additional steps need to be taken in order to be able to secure against such attacks. The threat picture against Denmark, against other interests in the West is increasing and has been so in recent years, especially when we talk cyberattacks. And we're not talking about small things. A cyber attack that hits a country that Estonia was hit in 2007 can put the country down completely. That is why the draft law we are now discussing is part of the fight against such attacks as well. This is part of the effort to strengthen the security of Denmark. This is how we want to strengthen Danish security in many contexts, and there is very good reason why it is always a balance between legal certainty and increased Danish security. So is this bill. After all, there has been a dialogue with the telecommunications companies and other players since November 2014. It is a dialogue that has actually led to concrete changes in the legislative proposal we are now discussing. It is the case that the Cybersecurity Centre has access to the telecommunications providers. It is also important to emphasise that there is no access to the customer's specific communications. Then a so-called standstill period is introduced. So when the telecommunications companies enter into a contract with foreign suppliers, you have to wait a little longer. 10 days so Center for Cybersecurity can review the contract. That is both sensible and real. Unfortunately, one can say, it is real. You can argue that this is an extra burden for the telecommunications companies, but it is difficult to see how to get around this in quite a number of other ways. Then it is worth adding that this bill will come into force on 1 December 2015, i.e. in a little more than 6 months' time, and this will give ample opportunity to have a debate with the telecommunications companies and other players over the period on how to implement this bill in announcements and similar concrete terms. Of course, the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508133556	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since the previous proposal went just as fast as it was and no rapporteur came forward, as we do not usually do with that proposal, I will allow the rapporteur of the Left to come in now. Here you go, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508133615	Thank you, Mr President. I can confirm that the debate in the Chamber went very fast, but at least now I am here and I would like to say on behalf of the Left that the legislative proposal that has been put forward now is an important legislative proposal which tries to address some of the challenges that we can face in the future and that other countries, like the previous speaker, Mr President. John Dyrby Paulsen, of the Social Democratic Party, has already been affected, namely Estonia. There is the whole question of the security of our telecommunications infrastructure and also the whole question of how we can protect a society that is becoming increasingly digital. For good and bad, the possibility of attack against the countries will develop in the future. Therefore, we also need to be aware from the Danish side of how we can ensure that the critical infrastructure is protected in the best possible way. For the same reason, we look forward to starting the committee procedure. This has, of course, been a rather controversial bill before it was tabled. There has been discussion in public about this and, above all, there have been a large number of contributions, including from the industry, about their fears about the impact this bill could have on, among others. The telecommunications business. Having said that, we note that the bill has now been submitted for consultation. There has been a large number of consultation responses. In some, of course, there are comments. Some of the consultation answers are more critical than others, but overall we think that the bill looks reasonable. There is no doubt that the committee procedure is likely to give rise to new questions, and we will look forward to doing so too. As we have also mentioned before, we think it would be a good idea if we now go the way that this draft law calls for us to look at whether there should be a review clause in the legislative proposal, so that, after a two or three-year period, we will be able to make an evaluation of the legislative proposal, in order to see whether the legislative proposal and thus the laws and regulations have had the necessary opportunity to do what we are proposing today. It cannot be ruled out that things can emerge over the coming years, which means that it would be a good idea to have the opportunity to adjust the bill and thus also to ensure that the Folketing is involved in that evaluation. After all, this is a bill that goes across several areas. It is the Minister for Defence who puts it forward, and it is under the Ministry of Defence, but there are also a number of more fundamental considerations which are very closely linked to the area of legal policy, and that is why there are, of course, a whole range of aspects of legal policy which can be taken into account and to which attention must be paid. However, with what has now been stated by the Left, we will look forward to a committee reading which is now coming, and we would also like to say today that, overall, we think that the legislative proposal looks reasonable, as we have been presented with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508133925	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508133935	With this law, Cybersecurity Center under the Ministry of Defence will be able to control and ensure the level of safety of Danish telecommunications providers. This can be called due diligence in relation to an area that is becoming increasingly difficult to control and where Denmark's security is thus vulnerable. In the Danish People's Party we consider it essential to ensure our information security as much as possible. The Danish People's Party can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134005	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134016	Thank you for the floor, President. This isn't an easy bill. This requires a special balance; on the one hand, of course, we must have an insight into the telecommunications sector from the state to ensure this vital infrastructure in a digital society, but on the other hand, the secret services must not just have access to all telecommunications between the Danes. However, we Radicals believe that we have found a good balance, which is why we can support the proposal. This is a series of powers that must strengthen the protection of our telecommunications infrastructure, while respecting the legal certainty of Danes and telecommunications providers. Very illustratively, I can tell you that I have been asked a number of questions about this proposal. Some argue that the proposal does not go far enough and did not give the Cybersecurity Centre enough powers, and others have then gone on to say that the Cybersecurity Centre has been given too many powers. This certainly shows that some sort of balance may have been achieved. For us Radicals is one of the key passages in the comments under Section 3.4.3., which states: "Center for Cybersecurity will not be able to access communication to, from and between, the customers of the telecommunications service providers. The system will therefore not be able to interfere with the secrecy of communications. I think it is a very, very important passage to get emphasised. Some of the first articles that came about this law were, after all, also concerned whether such a passage existed in the draft law at all. It does, and I think that is important to have it said in this debate. However, I think it will be important to follow the area forward. We will, of course, do this in the Radical Left, both to ensure that the authorities have the necessary powers to protect our telecommunications infrastructure, but also to ensure that legal certainty for customers and companies is in place. In other words, we will continue to follow the balance of this proposal. With these words, then, I should like to sum up that we can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134218	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134227	We are experiencing major technological developments and also increased opportunities, if I may say so, for non-friendly forces to enter and paralyze parts of our infrastructure. Therefore, it is very important for our overall safety that we have a handle on how the whole telecommunications traffic is running, so that it does not create uncertainties for Denmark. That is why we believe it is right that this bill gives the Centre for Cybersecurity some powers to go in and exercise due diligence, as there may be problems with the security of society's infrastructure. So we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134337	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134346	Strengthening Nets and information security is a necessary and important task. We can see how our society is deeply dependent on the IT and telecommunications infrastructure, and it is, of course, absolutely essential that people should be able to be safe in the security of personal data and know that the system can be quickly restored if, for example, there is a risk that the security of personal data can be restored. is an attack by hackers, or the net is damaged in connection with flooding or storms. I would therefore like to commend the Minister and the Ministry very rarely, so please note that I do so because the legal work has incorporated the concerns and comments raised by associations such as the IT-Politics Association, so that the proposal now ensures that the supervisory access to the telecommunications companies' infrastructure cannot provide access to customer communications. This includes both the content of the communication itself and metadata. Having said that, I am very sorry that the tasks and supervision are basically at the Centre for Cybersecurity, which is an authority of the Defence Intelligence Service. Securing Nets and information security should be a civilian task, and I am very opposed to transferring the resolution of civilian tasks to a military authority. Basically, with Enhedslisten's glasses, there is no reason to do so. It would be far more logical and reasonable for it to be carried out by a civilian institution. We already raised this concern when we dealt with the Cybersecurity Act last year. The Enhedslisten, as such, agreed on the need to set up Cybersecurity Center as a protection against hacker attacks, but in the way we protect ourselves against cyber attacks, must take into account the fundamental rights that we as citizens have in a democracy. That's why we're very skeptical of the location of the Centre under the Defense Intelligence Service. The FE is the authority in Denmark with which we have the least insight and control and which, at the same time, has the widest power to fail to comply with the basic legislation that other authorities have to comply with. With the centre, FE's ability to process information about the Danes was strengthened. This information is used in the other work of the FE and also to some extent for exchange with partners abroad. We believe that this exposes the personal data of Danish citizens to the risk of abuse. When we want to protect our society and our citizens from cyber attacks, it must be a protection that does not compromise legal certainty. In the Enhedslisten, we agree with the need to strengthen Nets and information security, and we believe that much of the content of L 201 is sensible and much has been done to meet the security of citizens' information. At the same time, however, we believe that it is a critical problem that the Centre for Cybersecurity and thus the Defence Intelligence Service have been appointed to carry out this work. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal L 201 but will vote blankly in the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134722	There is a question for the rapporteur from Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134729	I think that is an interesting argument that is being used here. The decision on the Cyber Security Center is a different decision from this one. It's decided it's gonna be there. One can agree or disagree with that, that is clear enough. But does this mean, when the tasks lie with the Center for Cybersecurity, that the Enhedslisten will resign from any kind of discussion on how to deal with the whole issue of infrastructure, hacking, telecommunications, etc., with the argument that it is in the wrong place and that that location is not shared?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134802	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134804	It can be said that it is quite true that Enhedslisten fundamentally disagrees with the location of the Centre for Cybersecurity under Defence Intelligence. That, of course, puts us in a difficult position. We agree with the content here, and we welcome the fact that the Minister has responded to the concern which was rightly raised, among others. IT-Police Association. Our approach is then to abstain from voting in favour, although we agree with the content, because we think it is so fundamentally problematic. This does not mean that we are resigning from the debate. We are going to be active in these debates and to work to ensure, of course, that we ensure the citizens, but do not do so in a way that harms their legal certainty. So we're not resigning, but we basically think it's problematic, and of course we relate to that, even in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134903	Here you go, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134905	These things will still be in the Cybersecurity Center in the future. It is not the case that that decision is being reversed, and therefore the consequence of Enhedslisten's approach must be that you will not participate in any of this work positively unless the old decision is changed to move it away from the FE. This does not suggest that it will be, and therefore the answer must be that one will not participate in how the safety of the Danes can be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508134944	No, that is not the case. The Enhedslisten will of course participate constructively in the attempt to ensure the Danes the best possible and at the same time ensure the legal certainty of the Danes. It can be said that if we had a majority, we could press through the fact that these tasks were transferred to a civilian authority rather than under the Defence Intelligence Service. It would be ideal for Enhedslisten to have the power to do so. We don't. That is why we choose to say that it is a positive content, but it is a fundamental problem that this centre, which should have civilian tasks, has been placed under the responsibility of the Defence Intelligence Service, and we fear that it will lead to problems of monitoring the Danes, providing information to foreign intelligence services as part of a cooperation, and therefore we shall abstain from voting against and abstaining, but will vote blankly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508135037	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508135046	The government, the Minister for Defence, makes a proposal that we should be able to ensure that we pay further attention and have better control over that part of society's digital infrastructure that can be most critical in terms of attacks. We in the Liberal Alliance can only be positive about this, and although we, like the Enhedslisten, voted against the fact that the Cybersecurity Centre should be below the FE, I have to say that I fully agreed with Mr Cybersecurity. Holger K. Nielsen in the exchange that was previously between the rapporteurs of the SF and the Enhedslisten. After all, there is no correlation between being opposed to it being placed where it was placed and being opposed to this bill. That is why, as I said, we are also positive. We are, of course, aware that there may be some extra costs for business and we are also aware of the fact that there have been some legal questions that might be problematic as to when companies can be dealt with. But at first sight we think it looks good. We have asked some questions and we are in dialogue with the Minister for Defence, and all other things being equal, we are going to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508135217	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mike Legarth, Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508135224	Thank you. There is no doubt that this bill addresses the enormous challenges of protecting us from digitised attacks. Security and protection must be in place when it comes to critical infrastructure. It is obvious, and we will support it at any time. Then the hearing round has also pointed out that some legal questions have been raised. It follows from the draft law that the Cybersecurity Centre can access business premises without a court order when necessary for information security. We will delve into that during committee work and make sure that this can be done in a way that we can support. Some questions will be asked and we are in dialogue with the Minister on this. Some questions have also been raised about the level of costs for companies. We will also ask what it will mean in everyday life. What are the amounts we are talking about? We want this to be clarified, and this can be done in the context of the work of the committee. Then the Left pointed out that it might be a good idea to have an evaluation scheme after 2-3 years. We will be able to support that too. The conclusion of the Conservative People's Party is that, overall, we are, of course, just as concerned as the government and others that we have adequate security and protection of our critical infrastructure. We just need to be sure that we are working with the law under our arms, that legal certainty is in order, that we do not carry out inspections for nothing. We will be asking questions about this thoroughly and we will make sure that the cost level is in place and we do not impose unnecessary costs on companies in the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508135407	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508135412	I would like to start by thanking you for the debate and for the very broad support for the proposal I have put forward on behalf of the government. I have heard that all parties have basic sympathy for the ideas underlying the proposal and I look forward very much to the committee reading. I hope that by a large and broad majority in the Folketing we will be able to adopt this bill. Sounds like it. I would like to emphasise that the safety of the telecommunications infrastructure is of great importance for a highly digitised society such as the Danish one. Secure and efficient telephone and data communication are crucial to many aspects of the daily lives of citizens, businesses and authorities. That is why I am also pleased with the good and constructive dialogue that the Cybersecurity Centre has had with telecommunications providers and their professional associations in preparing the proposal for a network and information security law that we are discussing today. A number of comments have been received from the telecommunications industry, which has been largely taken into account in the legislative proposal, and I am pleased that the need for a high level of information security is recognised by the industry. The draft law transfers the existing regulation of information security and preparedness in the telecommunications sector to a new independent law, while at the same time tightening up the requirements for the information security of telecommunications providers so that the requirements take greater account of society's dependence on the telecommunications network and also reflect the current threat picture. It is precisely the threat picture that is developing these years. It is a development in which we are increasingly seeing cyberattacks and advanced industrial espionage targeting Denmark. At the same time, it is a development in which telecommunications providers are increasingly entrusting large operating tasks to foreign suppliers, and this, of course, presents a challenge, because certain suppliers may themselves pose a threat to information security if they have too close links with foreign authorities. With the bill, the government will ensure that the Danish authorities are given much better tools to deal with the new threat picture and to protect the information of citizens, companies and authorities. The draft law tightens the rules in a number of areas, but I would like to emphasise that the new rules will also focus on ensuring that efforts to promote network and information security in society are made in constructive cooperation between authorities and telecommunications providers. I therefore believe that, overall, the legislative proposal has achieved a good balance in which we are putting in place a vitally necessary strengthening of information security in the telecommunications sector, while at the same time encouraging continued dialogue and positive cooperation with the telecommunications industry, and that this is done with respect for legal certainty. The bill is due to enter into force on 1 December of this year. This is mainly due to two things: firstly, we want to give the telecommunications industry time to adapt to the new law, and secondly, it is practical that the details of the law should be translated into a series of regulations laying down detailed technical rules. We will involve the industry in that process, just as the draft notice will be discussed with the parties supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508135746	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508135816	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508135825	The bill that we are now starting at first reading is a draft law, which unfortunately has come into being on the basis of a very sad and tragic event in Denmark, and it deals with the whole question of what we are doing to be able to combat terrorism both in Denmark and outside Denmark. After all, we all experienced how Danish society in February was affected by a deeply tragic terrorist activity, and in that light, of course, we must also look at whether there are things that need to be done differently, whether more tools are needed, and not least whether there are things that require immediate action. That is why the Left has also told the government from the outset that if there was a need to do more in relation to the area of the Minister for Defence and, above all, the proposal put forward by the government, namely to strengthen the FE in the fight against terrorism, that was something that we wanted to give our support to. We would also like to sign today for the discussions that have taken place bilaterally between the Left and the Government and the Minister for Defence in relation to the bill that has now been put forward in this Chamber. It is a legislative proposal which is based on the need for better monitoring, among other things. the so-called foreign fighters, which are, after all, an ever-increasing problem: people who go from Denmark to war zones in, for example. Syria or Iraq in order to be able to potentially return to Danish society and thus pose a risk to all of us and to our security and our freedom here in society. That is why we can also see that, although we have had a longer discussion in connection with some of the new tools that the FE is getting with this bill, we have come up with a balanced and sensible approach in which the FE must have a judicial approval before going any further in terms of monitoring certain individuals. Having said that, however, it is also crucial that we have confidence in the Defence Intelligence Service and that they have the opportunity to do their job without political distrust. In the Left, we are confident that the Defence Intelligence Service is doing what it can, and that is why we have also listened to what the Secretary of Defense has asked for, among other things. More resources for our intelligence service. Having said that, it is of course essential that we address some of the points raised in the legislative proposal which has now been consulted in the committee's work. But, on the other hand, we must also say that a political agreement has been reached with the government, of which the Left is a part, and I think there is reason to acknowledge that, as part of the defence committee, we have also agreed on what needs to be done in the future in relation to the defence intelligence service. With these comments, I would like to say that the Left is looking forward to the committee's proceedings and will attach crucial importance to the fact that we are now strengthening our intelligence capacity in the FE, so that the FE has the best tools and the best opportunities to keep track of what is happening outside Denmark's borders, and thus is also able to help, so that neither Denmark nor other countries, for that matter, become targets for terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508140231	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. John Dyrby Paulsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508140241	Thank you, President. I agree with the rapporteur of the Left that the terrorist threat to Denmark is quite real. It is also against other Western countries, but against Denmark it may be larger in some contexts and to feel and feel, and of course we have to deal with that. After all, the incidents in January in France and Belgium and in February in Denmark highlight the seriousness of this, and that is why the Prime Minister and the Government also launched the measure "A strong defence against terrorism." And the bill we are now discussing is the result of this • A strong defence against terrorist action by the government. It is also true, as has been said, that foreign fighters are a real problem. It is therefore people who are resident in Denmark, but who go out and fight in some context and thus get some ideas, may also acquire some skills that can in themselves be an increased threat to Denmark, either directly or by inciting others to practice terror. The number of those who are currently going to Syria and Iraq from Western countries, including Denmark, is increasing, and most of those who are leaving and that is where we clearly consider the problem to be the biggest • take down and fight under the tabs of the so-called Islamic State. Of course, we have to deal with that. We need to make legislation that allows the Defence Intelligence Service and our intelligence services in general to follow up on these foreign fighters. And with this bill, the Defence Intelligence Service will be able to obtain information about individuals who are resident in Denmark when they are abroad. There may be very good reasons for this, and in this bill there is a balance between the concern for Denmark's security and the concern for legal certainty, and I think it has been found with the provisions contained in this bill. After all, there can be no great disagreement, I think, about the importance of managing these threats as well. It is no good if we once hopefully do not see a terrorist attack by a foreign fighter and then discuss what we should have done. It is important that we do something in time, and this bill shows that we are now doing something in time. Social democracy can, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508140512	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508140523	This bill forms part of the additional measures taken to secure Denmark further after the terrorist attack in February 2015. In the Danish People's Party we are pleased that in future it will be possible for FE to listen to people who have a permanent stay in Denmark but who are staying abroad. This is particularly important when it comes to exposing the shady deeds of the so-called holy warriors, and it is clear that we must be as good as possible to capture and stop the plans of the holy warriors. The Danish People's Party therefore supports L 200.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508140603	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Mikkelsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508140618	Thank you for the floor, President. I will be relatively brief, as the proposal itself has been well explained by the other rapporteurs who have been on before me. It must be recognised that the threat posed by the Danish so-called foreign fighters is serious. They are given military training and a large network in the terrorist environment, while at the same time being called radicalised. That is why they represent a large part of our current threat picture, and that is why we believe it is entirely justified that the Defence Intelligence Service now has better opportunities to monitor Danish foreign fighters abroad. Since the initial proposal was launched, I believe that there has been a good public debate on the proposal and also a great deal of criticism. We have taken note of this and subsequently we have significantly increased legal certainty in this proposal. I am very pleased about that. I would like to thank the many actors and people who interfered in the debate. They deserve praise. The need for this targeted collection of information on foreign fighters and the demand for judicial orders means that we in the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508140732	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508140749	After the attack on Charlie Hebdo and also on the Krudtønde, there is no doubt that the threat of terrorism must be taken seriously, including here in Denmark, and we, as responsible politicians, must do so. That effort must be multi-stringed. It is important that we put in place more prevention in order to prevent more young people coming out on a slope and entering those environments and being affected to become terrorists. However, there is also a need for increased intelligence, which is why we have also supported the strengthening of PET, and we also support this bill which strengthens the defence intelligence service. With this bill, some new powers are given to FE and especially to Danish citizens travelling abroad. These are new powers that have not been exercised in the past. When that happens, it is necessary, if I may say so, to look at it critically, i.e. that we start to wrinkle our brows a little and ask ourselves whether it is reasonable for us to go that way. For what is always the risk when it comes to combating terrorism is that, in order to protect our democracy, we risk taking action that effectively undermines the very same democracy. After all, it is a balance that must be kept in mind and a dilemma that must be kept in mind. Therefore there was also a great deal of discussion when the first draft of this bill came, about legal certainty, about being able to monitor Danes abroad without judicial orders, etc. After all, we had a long and thorough debate on this, including among the conciliation parties and with the government. I am also grateful that we had the open debate and discussion of it, and also for the fact that it does not always happen, either with the government or with parliamentarians, that one has listened to the criticism and has just said: okay, it may well be that we have made a mistake here, and therefore we are correcting it. That is what has been done here in connection with the legal concerns that were raised. We had discussions about other options that had to be considered, but ended up with the kind of court order to be given here, which is not done under the Code of Procedure, but which is done on a different basis, but which is still a court order and which allows the FE to go into an investigative phase and follow some of the foreign fighters in a sensible way. So we are very pleased that it has ended this way, although there may still be some issues that need to be discussed. We can do that, but all in all it is satisfactory. We are also pleased that there is a strengthening of the supervision of intelligence services. This is an issue that we have been very concerned about. In general, we believe that we should have better control over the intelligence services. It has improved, but in our opinion it is not good enough yet. We are in favour of having an intelligence service which can also function effectively. By its very nature, many of the activities of an intelligence agency must be secret. They cannot come to public knowledge, but all the more important is that there is effective and democratic control of it so that it does not become a state in the state. This is an absolutely essential condition for having an intelligence service that can be trusted in the population. It's improved, even with this, I recognize that, but I still think there's some way to go. This is a completely different discussion, I recognise, but we are backing this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508141208	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508141216	The terrorist attack in Copenhagen was terrible and we must do our best to combat terrorism and defend democracy. At the same time, however, it is essential that, in the fight against terrorism, we do not undermine the democracy that we want to defend. We have seen in the past how the terrorist attack of 11 September 2001 led to massive surveillance revealed by the whistleblower Edward Snowden and how it has violated fundamental democratic rights and law. It is important that we think before we legislate. We all want to act against terrorism, but we are obliged to act wisely. The proposed bill is less problematic than the first one. In the first scenario, it was proposed that FE's surveillance could take place without a warrant. I am glad that this has been corrected, but at the same time I have to say that there are still major problems and cause for concern. Basically, Enhedslisten believes that it should be up to PET and not FE to monitor Danes if there is justified suspicion of any criminal or terrorist threat. Although we would like to see better control and legal certainty with regard to PET, there is more democratic control with PET than there is with FE, which is the most closed intelligence service we have in Denmark. Therefore, we are fundamentally critical of extending FE's opportunities to monitor Danes. I take note of the fact that there are a large number of consultation responses expressing concern for legal certainty in this draft law, and I think we should take that seriously. The IT-Politic Association raises an extremely relevant concern in relation to the extent to which FE will be able to conduct surveillance without a court order with the loose wordings used in the proposal. They also raise concerns that there are no restrictions on monitoring methods once the court order is given. It is argued from the Lawyer's Board that it is problematic that it is not necessary to indicate a person's full name and that it may give confusion as to which persons can be monitored. They also find it problematic that the FE is not obliged to inform the appointed lawyer of how the information has been obtained, i.e. which method of retrieval has been used to obtain the information. Also the Institute for Human Rights, the Think Tank Justitia and the Danish Judicial Policy Association raise a number of relevant concerns. It is important for us to realise that when we legislate to combat terrorism, democracy sets limits for monitoring. It is the very foundations of democracy that impose limits on democracy, because the legal certainty of citizens must be guaranteed. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we believe that the concerns raised in the hearings should be taken seriously, and we will therefore raise these concerns and criticisms in the further work of the committee before we can finally take a position on the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508141541	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508141554	The Western world is under attack by Islamist terrorists and extremists. This creates a situation in which we have to defend ourselves in order to defend ourselves. It is important that we have the tools to defend our open Western free society. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance have, from the outset, supported the proposal that the Defence Intelligence Service should be able to monitor Danes abroad, but we have also said from the outset that we should have a detailed discussion of who and on what basis, and there should of course be court orders. For when Western society is under attack, it is about sticking to Western values and rolling Western values forward instead of rolling them back. At first we could feel a little alone on the issue of court orders, but I am extremely glad that we have succeeded in bringing together well all parties in the Folketing behind the fact that there must now be court orders when we have to monitor Danes abroad. I understand that the Enhedslisten, of course, also supports this part, even if you do not support the bill, and that is why it is probably a collective Parliament. This has given us a law in which the necessary struggle and defence and the necessary reinforcement of intelligence services go hand in hand with democracy and legal certainty and Western values. And so we are extremely positive about the final proposal as it now stands and which we expect to vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508141804	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mike Legarth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508141818	Thank you, Madam President. Denmark was hit by terror. We were under attack and we cannot know whether we are still under attack and we must be able to defend ourselves and fight and prevent terrorist attacks like those we saw in February at all times. There is no one to challenge us on our security and our freedom, and therefore it is relevant that with this bill and at all in the Folketing we look at what can be done. In this bill, it's about defense and defense intelligence. Is there a need for strengthening? Is there anything else we can do? And that is what is being achieved, among other things. A stronger response to what we call foreign fighters, i.e. what are also called Syrian warriors, people who go down and fight for Islamic State, this nasty terrorist organisation working on a hideous basis. But it can also be other countries and other nationalities. We allow FE as a new tool to conduct surveillance, wiretap of resident citizens who are abroad, by a court order, a court order, we think that is crucially important. There should be no doubt that the Conservative People's Party supports one hundred percent of defence and defence intelligence, just as we do, of course, in relation to police and police intelligence. The Conservative People's Party wants a strong and functional FE that has the readiness, i.e. the number of soldiers, the staff needed to resist the attacks we may be subjected to at any time; that we have the resources needed to ensure that our training state and state of education are in order; that we have the equipment that matches the equipment of those who attack us at any time. You can at any time turn to the Conservative People's Party, and then we will help to solve the tasks that are involved. And we think that all relevant tools should be used. We want to fight terrorism at all costs, not least the Islamic State, they must be defeated, they must be wiped out. Freedom cannot be made up on formulas and has no fixed price. These were supposed to be the words of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508142045	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508142052	First of all, I would like to thank those of Parliament's parties, which are part of the defence committee, for their very good cooperation, as the government called for negotiations in connection with a strong defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence guard and for the full support of the proposals made by the government. At the same time, we have strengthened supervision. I think that is a good thing, and that means that the Defence Intelligence Service will be even stronger able to respond to the threats that Denmark is facing, and that is important. The purpose of this bill is to strengthen Defence Intelligence's action against terrorist threats, because the terrorist threat against Denmark is serious and it is constantly changing. Denmark has been subject to a serious terrorist threat for several years, and with the attacks in Copenhagen on 14 and 15 February, we were horribly able to get all the way to terrorism, just as the people of France did in January and, unfortunately, in a number of other countries too. These terrorist attacks have highlighted and clarified the threat posed by simple attacks with easily accessible weapons, including from exiled extremists and, incidentally, extremists who sympathise with international terrorist groups. In recent years, the threat from an increasing number of expatriated extremists from Western countries, the so-called foreign fighters, has also posed a growing challenge for Denmark. The conflict in Syria and Iraq is today the most important factor in the threat picture, and at least 115 people are or have been left from Denmark. In Denmark resident persons travelling abroad for e.g. joining a terrorist organisation and receiving militant training or engaging in fighting, is today an essential element of the threat picture in relation to Denmark. We must be able to respond to the threat that people with evil intentions can pose to Denmark, and that is why in February the government presented its proposal for a strengthened response to terrorism under the heading "A strong defence against terrorism'. A key element of this is the draft law that we in the Danish Parliament are discussing here today. The defence intelligence service is Denmark's foreign intelligence service and thus Denmark's eyes and ears abroad in the field of intelligence. One of the main after-business tasks of the service is to seek to detect threats and to identify and monitor persons staying abroad and such as: Through militant training and combat actions, specific skills and a readiness to violence can pose a threat to Denmark and Danish interests. There has been a marked increase in the number of people resident in Denmark travelling abroad to receive terrorist training or participate in fighting or terrorist attacks. This brings these people into contact with networks and organisations to which the Defence Intelligence Service's efforts are directed. However, the consequence of the existing restrictions in the legislation is that today the Defence Intelligence Service cannot be targeted to follow expatriate Danish extremists, who may potentially pose a very serious terrorist threat to Denmark. Those who leave Denmark are very much in favour of ISIL, which is engaged in terrorism with an unprecedented brutality and extent, and which we, among others, support. with Danish fighter planes contribute militarily to fighting in Iraq. This bill is important because it will strengthen the defence intelligence capabilities to detect and detect terrorist threats to Denmark and Danish interests at an earlier stage than the current legislation allows. With the bill, the Defence Intelligence Service will have access to obtain information about a natural person resident in Denmark when he or she is abroad and there are certain reasons to assume that he or she is involved in activities that may involve terrorism or increase a terrorist threat against Denmark and Danish interests. At the same time, the draft law ensures that a judicial order is sought in the event of interference with the secrecy of the notification and that information obtained as a result of the new provision is subject to the control already carried out by the Intelligence Directorate in relation to the FE. Monitoring will be provided with the resources necessary to carry out the new task. The bill strengthens FE's ability to solve the important tasks of preventing and countering terrorist threats to Denmark and Danish interests while ensuring that this is done with respect for legal certainty. This is therefore a proposal that will enable us to better protect Denmark against terrorists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508142635	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508142652	The debate is open, and the Secretary of Defense first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508142712	Thank you. With the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2015, the growth package that has been concluded in the area of rescue preparedness with the Left and the Danish People's Party, and the agreement on the rescue response in 2015, the overall framework for the forward-looking adaptation of the state and municipal rescue response has been established, including the financial framework. With the agreements, the clues have been added to a reform work which, among other things, includes: must help ensure that Denmark has a rescue team in the future, designed with the highest possible efficiency, quality and coordination. A key element of the further process is that with the agreement on the municipalities' economy by 1 January 2016, the municipalities must establish themselves in up to 20 emergency units. This work is well under way in KL and the municipalities, and it is therefore still expected that the municipalities will reach the goal of establishing themselves in up to 20 emergency units by 2015. Another key element of the further process is that in the second half of 2015 a decision-making basis is to be drawn up which will serve as the basis for a new multiannual agreement on the 2016 and beyond rescue preparedness. The basis for the decision shall include, inter alia: ensure coherence between the state and municipal adaptations so that a well-functioning preparedness is maintained in Denmark and the decision-making basis must also be developed taking into account regional conditions and the volunteers in the rescue response. I expect to be able to present a basis for decision-making in the political negotiations in the second half of 2015 when a new agreement on rescue preparedness is to be negotiated. Let me just conclude my speech by stating that Denmark must, of course, continue to have a rescue response that citizens can be confident about; a rescue response that can handle daily events, but also major events such as violent weather. And I am confident that the ongoing process will ensure such preparedness. I can therefore say on behalf of the government that we do not support the Enhedslisten resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508142932	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508142934	Thank you. After all, we saw how the preparedness was used in connection with the terrible terrorist attack in Copenhagen. We have seen how we have experienced more intense weather with storms and floods in recent years. At the same time, we can see that massive savings now need to be made on state preparedness after they have made it on municipal preparedness. What guarantees can the Secretary of Defense give that these massive savings will not lead to less preparedness for the Danes, so that there will be less protection and help for the Danes when the accident or disaster is out?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143014	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Nikolaj Villumsen expresses his pleasure that our preparedness is good in Denmark. I agree with that. We have a strong and a good response. But we can also make it more effective, we can coordinate better, and we can pool our forces in such a way that we get more money. Therefore, it is also important to say that the preparedness we need, both in terms of the municipal and the state, must be a • like I have also just said that can handle both daily events and major events; a readiness that the Danes can be confident about. And I am fully confident that the work we are doing in the municipalities and also in the state will, together, provide a response in the future that meets what needs to be done, namely to provide security and security for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143114	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen for his last remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143118	The concern is that this is a saving exercise that is going to go beyond preparedness; it is going to make the preparedness less robust, so there is less help for the Danes when needed. It is, of course, very drastic savings that are made. About 25%. Government preparedness will be spared once these savings are fully phased in. I did not hear a reply from the Minister in order to give a guarantee that there will be no less security for the Danes, and I very much hope the Minister can give that, otherwise it is deeply problematic at a time when we can see that, unfortunately, there is a need for preparedness time and time again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143154	My message is that we have a robust preparedness today, and we will also have that in the future when the new structure is in place, so that our preparedness can deal with both daily events and also major events, for example. storms and whatever else we might be exposed to. And that is why it is also something that not only I, but also the parties that are part of this agreement, attach great importance to, so that in future we will also have strong and robust preparedness for the benefit of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143228	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143249	As the Minister for Defence has just explained, the government and the Left have concluded a large number of agreements in the summer of 2014, and one of the elements of the agreements concluded was to look at the Danish preparedness. Therein lies a dual strategy, both a municipal and a state. The municipalities are looking at how to set up the preparedness differently than it is today. A large number of mergers are currently under way. This is all something that we are following with great interest, and it is mergers that, in the view of the Left, should provide better preparedness and also a readiness that makes sense. This also means, of course, that there will be fewer managers, fewer vehicles and perhaps even some fire stations that are being set up in a different way than we know it today. The work has not yet been completed, but is expected to be completed here before the summer break. It's the municipal part. Then an agreement has also been made in relation to the state section, where savings will have to be found over the coming years in relation to the state level and thus at the Danish Emergency Management Authority. And let me say this: for the Left, it is crucial that we have strong national preparedness. I would also like today to express my great support and support for the Emergency Management Board and the many people who are employed in the Emergency Management Board and who are doing a really, really good job. That is why, of course, we also need to think very carefully when implementing the savings of which the Left is a part. And as the Secretary of Defense has just stated, he expects to be able to tackle this saving after the summer break. Most likely at that time we will have had a parliamentary election, and that of course also means that it is either the current government or another government that will be responsible for making the coinage of what has been agreed. In this coinage, the Left attaches the utmost importance to not compromising the Danish preparedness, but that it should be as robust as it is today, and we must, of course, take into account how the municipalities have at that time adapted themselves. So in the Left, we go to this task with humility and also take note of ourselves today and I would like to acknowledge that the Enhedslisten just before the summer holiday begins to take an interest in the Danish preparedness. One should of course remember to sign for it when Enhedslisten throws itself over a case and in this way wants to discuss it, and we are of course happy about that, and therefore we are also absolutely convinced that Enhedslisten would also like to help ensure that we have a strong preparedness. And so I have no reason to believe that Enhedslisten will not. So, although Enhedslisten is not part of the agreement, I hope that Enhedslisten will also be interested in this important discussion. With those comments, therefore, the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143556	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143559	Thank you. I can't help but notice that sir... Troels Lund Poulsen always gets a little arrogant when he's a little under pressure, and I actually understand that the Left is under pressure in this case. The situation is, of course, that we are facing massive savings in state preparedness savings, which come because the Left has helped to make the decision together with the government and the Danish People's Party. We could see in connection with the terrorist attack in Copenhagen that there is a need for strong preparedness to come to the help of the Danes, just as we have seen that there is a need for strong preparedness to come to help the Danes when there are floods, and when there are violent storms that make you out in the small homes need a response. It is of course a great concern around here that there should be massive cuts in preparedness, so I would like to hear from the Left what guarantees the Left can give that the savings planned will not lead to less security for Danes in future disasters and accidents.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143702	First of all, thank you for the very positive remarks about my person. It's always lovely when Mr. Knox... Nikolaj Villumsen comes with great praise. I assume that was no praise, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen gave it that I had to be considered arrogant. At least I'm not trying to be arrogant. Nikolaj Villumsen, but I think it is a very arrogant approach to have that you start by making such a personal criticism. But let it be, that is clearly the way Enhedslisten wants to discuss in the Parliamentary Chamber. I said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech, and I am happy to do it again, that it is crucial for us that the state preparedness of the future should be as robust as what we find today. Because we cannot compromise on how and how our preparedness should be. It is also crucial for us that the Emergency Response Board has the necessary conditions to be present. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen actually said something right in one of the questions to the Minister for Defence, namely that the Emergency Response Board also participated in the terrorist activity which unfortunately tragically took place in Copenhagen in February. The Board of Emergency Response is doing an excellent job around the country, and that is why we must, of course, think very carefully about making the efficiency that has been decided politically. But it also depends a lot on how the municipal tools are going to look, how they fit in and how the context becomes the state level. But hopefully I can reassure Nikolaj Villumsen that the Left is very concerned about this issue and that we will not in any way weaken national preparedness.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143835	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143837	That sounds great. The reality is that there has been massive cuts in municipal preparedness and that there is now a massive saving in state preparedness at a time when we can see that there has been a need for preparedness in connection with the Copenhagen terrorist attack, in connection with the more violent and violent weather that we are experiencing. There I just miss an answer from the Left and I can see that I cannot get it today on how to make such massive savings without compromising the security that the Danes are entitled to have in the event of disasters and accidents. But apparently there isn't an answer from the Left, is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508143916	I'm afraid I'm gonna have to give the disheartening message to Mr. Kim. Nikolaj Villumsen, that no matter what I say, Nikolaj Villumsen does not consider it an answer. I have said repeatedly, and I am happy to say it again, that it is essential that the way in which we organise state preparedness should not make state preparedness worse or weaken it, compared to what we know today. And that is the prerequisite for the negotiations that we are starting. I think that in many ways the fact that we have seen at local level changing the emergency response structure is very sensible. But, of course, I note that the Enhedslisten is much more concerned with how the structure is and how and how the preparedness is municipal than perhaps looking at how to better prepare the preparedness. That is also why I mentioned that efficiency improvements can be made on municipal preparedness, which makes real, real sense and which can also help to strengthen municipal preparedness.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144009	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, and it is not John Dyrby Paulsen as expected, but Mrs Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144019	Thank you. Today, Denmark has a well-functioning rescue team based on the municipal and state rescue teams. And I would like to start by saying that they are doing a very, very important job, not least the volunteers who are doing a huge job. We in the Socialist Group will not change that. Both now and in the future, we must have a well-functioning and robust response that citizens can be confident about. However, the Committee on Structural Affairs has pointed out that, in a number of areas, it is possible to increase the effectiveness of the rescue response without compromising quality and that there is considerable economic potential for the overall preparedness for reform. With the agreement for the municipalities' economy for 2015 and the growth package concluded by the government and the area of the rescue team with the Left and the Danish People's Party, we have therefore established a general framework for the future adaptation of the state and municipal emergency response teams, which will continue to live up to the management of daily events, the management of rarer incidents, accidents, disasters and extreme weather, and the management of the consequences of both man-made and natural disasters, as well as the possibility of providing international assistance. We therefore do not support the Enhedslisten's proposal today, as we are already giving priority to having a strong and well-functioning rescue response. At the same time, I can see that Enhedslisten has forgotten to give funding. However, I would like to finish where I started: at the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, we stress that Denmark must continue to have a rescue response which citizens can be confident of, which takes regional account of, and which can solve international tasks at the same level as today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144203	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144207	Thank you. I would like to draw the attention of the Socialist rapporteur to the fact that we have attached a proposal for financing, in which we take it from the armed part of the Home Guard, but we have also stressed that we are, of course, prepared to negotiate in committee where the money can come from. So there is funding for the proposal. However, with regard to the concerns about the savings that are the reason for today's debate, I would say that it can be seen that the preparedness is making a great deal of effort. We saw them make an effort when there was the terrible terrorist attack in Copenhagen. We see them making an effort to combat Ebola through international preparedness. We see them make a great effort when there are floods and storms around Denmark. What is the situation in relation to the savings that have now been made? What is going to be the consequence? Can a guarantee be given that they will be able to make the same effort when a 25% saving is made? Well, that's the concern around here. Are the Socialists sure that there will be no deterioration?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144315	I completely share Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's admiration for the readiness. They're doing an amazing job. I come out there a lot and I can see that they're all dedicated people. This is where Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is also a structural committee which has made a number of recommendations. You have said that in a number of areas we can be more efficient, so that in the future we will also have the same good, robust preparedness that we have today. For there is no doubt that we must have the same good and robust preparedness that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144350	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144353	There is no doubt that we are dealing with dedicated people. I know that very well, and the rapporteur knows it too. It is quite clear that they are making a great effort. The only problem is when you cut 25%. That is why I am asking the Socialists. Talking about robustness is fine, but how can we be sure that the same robustness will be there once we have achieved a 25% saving? Perhaps the Socialists could give an example of something superfluous fat that was on the alert. I have not been able to find a single example of this yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144441	There are really big changes in preparedness right now. As the previous rapporteurs have said, things are being put together in a number of municipal areas, thereby making things more efficient. There is no doubt that the preparedness of the future must be able to fulfil the tasks they are doing today. The Committee on Structural Affairs has pointed out a number of areas where efficiency could be made more effective, so that we can achieve precisely this robust response.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144506	Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144518	Last year, in connection with the conclusion of the growth agreement between the Government, the Left and the Danish People's Party, it was agreed that savings should be made in the field of preparedness in 2015, 2016 and 2017. It has since become apparent that this can hardly be achieved without weakening the preparedness too much. That is why many of the rapporteurs of the various political parties in the field of emergency have repeatedly pointed out that it may be necessary to look again at these savings and their implementation. It is a process which is under way and which, I hope, will be strengthened after the elections. The Danish People's Party cannot support this resolution because it is a complete annulment of an agreement which also includes a whole series of other things. However, the Danish People's Party supports that the savings will be re-examined in the emergency circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144615	Oddly enough, there is a brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144618	Thank you. I would like to hear a deepening from the Danish People's Party. Here there is a concrete proposal to cancel the savings that are, and we are prepared to discuss how that money is to be found, in committee; that is what is usually done in such a process in the Folketing. When the Danish People's Party will not support the Enhedslisten's proposal, how will you ensure that savings are not made on preparedness? Because I think it is important that today, in the country where you are sitting and worried about these savings, you get clarity about it. How can we avoid them coming when the Danish People's Party intends to vote against Enhedslisten's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144656	After all, there are other ways of securing preparedness than exactly following the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution. Firstly, it is not certain that a complete cancellation of all savings is the right way forward. It may well be that some of them are reasonable and reasonable, while others are exaggerated, and that is the process that we would like to look at. Secondly, the negotiations have not been concluded, so that is the way to look at it with new eyes. However, a complete cancellation, as the Enhedslisten proposes, does not make sense. We would rather look at it more carefully and take it up in the process which is under way and which we expect will be strengthened after a choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144745	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144747	But I am a little puzzled because the Danish People's Party has helped make these savings. Then we have a debate today where Enhedslisten, because we think it is deeply irresponsible to make these savings, has made a proposal to cancel them, and then the Danish People's Party suddenly says that perhaps they are not reasonable. But what are some of these savings so reasonable? The Danish People's Party must have done away with itself, which is why it was possible to save so many millions in the first place and why you suddenly change your mind, so that some of the savings may not be good. One might, of course, fear that it was just because the DF had been politically pressured on a matter of an area that I simply think is irresponsible to cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144831	It is probably more a question of knowing that it is simply too much savings and that it looks as if it is going to go too hard on state preparedness. There is every reason to ensure that this does not happen, and therefore there is reason to look at it again. But it is not necessarily the same as having to cancel everything that has been agreed in that area. That is why we believe that the Enhedslisten resolution is not a way forward, but it is a way forward to look at the savings that have been adopted and take it up in the emergency circle again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144914	Mrs Lone Loklindt has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144917	Yes, I listen with interest when I hear that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is talking about looking at the savings again, and then I would like to ask Mrs Krarup whether she thinks she has sufficient grounds to assess whether the savings are right or not. In other words, does the Danish People's Party already have an overview of what savings will have to be rolled back?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508144953	No, we do not have that at the moment, and that is what we are worried about. We find it worrying with the very large savings on state preparedness, and we would have liked to have looked at this in the light of the fact that restructuring is already taking place on municipal preparedness. It is clear that these things are connected. And then the question is whether there has been a cut or a vow to cut too much on state preparedness, and that is what we would have liked to have looked at. And we believe that this is needed in the emergency group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145025	Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145028	After all, there is now a structural analysis which is the basis for, among other things. the savings that have already been agreed, and I would just like to hear concretely: Does Dansk Folkeparti believe that the structural analysis is sufficient as an analysis for it, or could one also be interested by the Danish People's Party in getting a risk and vulnerability analysis that goes further in time and is more comprehensive than what lies in the structural analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145104	I cannot decide on that straight away. But I think that sounds reasonable, because we cannot have a full overview of what is going to happen. In view of the fact that municipal restructuring is taking place, what will happen in the state field? So it sounds like a reasonable idea to gain the greater insight.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145125	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then Mrs Lone Loklindt has the opportunity to give her rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145142	Radical Left believes it is important that we have a strong and robust response in Denmark. The motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten that we are debating here today, I can say right away that we cannot support it. However, I would like to go into the debate itself. The proposal is only about savings on state preparedness, but the savings agreed between the government, DF and Left last year are, in fact, about the rescue response, both municipal and state. As we have also heard, the municipal authorities are already in the process of adapting differently, more efficient compared to having 20 units rather than 98, on the basis of the structural report. And, of course, the question is how to get a state preparedness that fits into that structure so that we get the best use of resources. However, if I am going to respond in a way to the proposers, it is in relation to the question of whether it can be said that the existing structural analysis is sufficient to assess the coherent risk and vulnerability analysis, which really must go a very long way in the future. We have seen that the attack on the Krudtønde meeting and subsequently on the synagogue have raised questions about how we live up to what the Swedes call social protection. We need to have a response that thinks very multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral preventive and therefore not only is interested in rescue. That is why, in the Radical Left, we have internal discussions on how to prepare for the future. This does not change the fact that we have decided to save on the existing structural analyses, but we would like to help achieve a more comprehensive analysis work that goes further into the future in relation to the challenges facing Denmark as a society, and in that light look at the arrangements for the future preparedness. After all, the National Audit Office in spring 2014 had to look at the state emergency organisation with the preparation of contingency plans and exercises and found that it was not good enough, and a clarification of the law makes it clear that the contingency plans must be submitted to the Danish Emergency Management Authority. However, it may perhaps be a good idea to look at how we have solved coordination so far, when we know that the principle of sectoral responsibility must be combined with a horizontal coordinating principle. As I have said, we do not want to depart from the savings resulting from the structural analysis, but we would nevertheless like to make a commitment from the Radical Left that we are also concerned with giving the overall preparedness a review in the light of an overall risk and vulnerability analysis which goes much further into the future than the one on which these savings are based.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145508	There is a brief comment from Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145511	Thank you. It is very funny that the radical rapporteur mentions the various analyses that have been made here, because there has been a great deal of analysis and a report. There they pointed out from Deloitte that there could be 10 million. kr. in savings on state preparedness. Now you make a saving of 125 million. kr. on state preparedness. It is on the basis of a decision on a growth package. Is it really wise to make such a huge saving when there is no emergency assessment and no analysis to indicate that it is justified to do so? Isn't it dangerous for the saver to go beyond the alert? Can it not weaken the preparedness that is necessary when the Danes need it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145605	The intention is not, of course, to weaken it, but to give it a changed structure, which plays better with a new municipal structure. For the Radical Left, it is important that we can maintain a strong preparedness in Denmark, but indeed also a strong response internationally. After all, the agreed savings are about how we can make the two structures more coherent in Denmark, so that the municipal and the state play together. And a number of efficiency improvements have been pointed out which are possible. But it is also important for us that there should be a wider and wider response to the future, and not just a rescue response, which this really involves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145700	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145701	Well, it's a good thing you don't intend to reduce your preparedness. The only question is whether it is really going to be a reduced level of preparedness. I am very concerned that these huge savings have been made without an analysis showing that this can be done without any deterioration. On the contrary, the analysis carried out said that only 10 million could be found. kr. In this area. Now you choose to find 125 million. kr. And then my question to the Radicals is: can we be sure that this will not lead to any deterioration for the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145739	At the moment, the full savings have not been made in the state sector, and the Minister also told us that there will be a plan for how this will be implemented. It is, of course, there that we need to be sure that we do not impair the entire Danish rescue team. But all the conciliation parties will have the opportunity, together with the Minister, to review it when we come in autumn 2015. Against this background, there is no reason to start by eliminating the savings that we agreed on. However, it is clear that negotiations will have to take place on a basis which the Minister will then present.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145825	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508145841	The field of emergency aid is an important area, but it is also a politically sensitive area, because there are rarely many votes to allocate more money to short-term preparedness. On the other hand, if the great thing happens, if the accident happens, a huge, huge problem will have to be solved if they have not done anything in advance if they have not taken due care. That is why I think it is important that we regularly discuss how we can have good preparedness, have the insurance system as it is, in a sense, if there are major accidents, if there are terrorists, if there are sudden other events that are pouring down on us. So it is a very, very central area to prioritise, and we have done so on an ongoing basis from the SF. That is why today's discussion is quite all right. We are not part of the growth agreement of last year, and we are therefore not obliged by the savings on the state preparedness agreed at that time, and we would also like to point out that in our opinion it can have quite, quite negative consequences if we make excessive savings on the state tool and that we have to be fully aware of it. 'Cause it's not gonna work out that we're gonna get a low level of preparedness out of this. I have also noticed that other rapporteurs attach great importance to the fact that this should not lead to a weakening of overall preparedness. We cannot vote in favour of this proposal from the Enhedslisten. I think it's going to be a little weird, I have to confess. There must be negotiations this autumn on how this should be implemented, and it would perhaps be an idea to wait for those negotiations and enter into those negotiations, rather than discussing this proposal just before the election campaign, which Enhedslisten knows very well will not have a majority behind him. But it's Enhedslisten's choice to make politics like that. That's the way it is. However, as I said, we are very critical of that saving and we do not want to have a weakened preparedness out of it. We would like to look at the scope for efficiency, and that is why we will also enter into the negotiations that will come in the autumn on a conciliation in this area. I think it is important that there should be broad conciliation in an area such as emergency response. That's where the central discussion about this is going to take place. I noticed that the Danish People's Party says that they no longer feel obliged by these savings. They may feel that you should reconsider. I think that is a very interesting report. It's rare that these first readings, not least on a Friday afternoon, bring something new, but I think it was a very interesting new announcement that came from the Danish People's Party, one of the conciliation parties, namely that they would like to have a new discussion of this saving. So I look forward to it in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150158	There is a brief comment from Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150204	Thank you. Well, it's like sir. Holger K. Nielsen says, quite interestingly, that one of the conciliation parties today has changed its position. Well, that gives you a perspective that you can get something done about this. We have, of course, been deeply critical of these savings from the start in the Enhedslisten. We had hoped that they would be changed in the emergency settlement that was concluded just before Christmas. There we could see that it was take it or leave it or either you voted for savings, or you could not be in the settlement. Recently, shortly after New Year, in February, we were able to see a terrorist attack, and we needed preparedness, just as we have seen in repeated storms and floods. That is the reason for this proposal today. So I would just like to hear from the SF what the reason is for not voting for it, now that SF agrees that it is deeply problematic if the state preparedness is cut so massively.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150303	That is because it goes in and, if you may say so, the course of negotiations that will come in the autumn is not harpooning. Well, it's not this proposal that changes some things. The Enhedslisten is always stuck in whether or not you vote for their proposals. It is as if it is essential for the Enhedslisten and if you do not vote for the Enhedslisten proposal, nothing will happen with the preparedness. This is a completely ridiculous approach to the whole area. After all, there is a debate going on on about these things and how it should be implemented, and I think it is far more important that we go in and look at it instead of looking at some resolution that we are standing here discussing a late Friday afternoon as if it were absolutely crucial for whether some things can happen. Well, it isn't. Nikolaj Villumsen also very well, if he thinks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150348	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150352	I often think about it, and something I, among other things, think about. I have noticed when I have thought about the fact that, on the basis of the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, more resources have been allocated to the police. SF has supported this, and Enhedslisten has supported it, and that is a good thing. One has learned from the situation, one has taken stock of the situation, and then one has added money to an area. Why not do so in the field of emergency? Why not say: we have been able to see that we need a robust and strong response, so let us add some money to this area and not make the massive savings that have unfortunately been set up because the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Government decided to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150438	Well, that's possible, but that doesn't require a yes to this resolution. In other words, this motion for a resolution says nothing about how, alternatively, we could make some changes and perhaps some improvements in efficiency. It is therefore absolutely grotesque that the Enhedslisten is trying to run an agenda that a prerequisite for any action at all is to vote in favour of the miserable motion for a resolution tabled by Enhedslisten. That is absolutely ridiculous and it is not a way of making policy. There will be a debate this autumn, so let us take it from there. Otherwise, if the Enhedslisten took himself seriously, we entered that debate instead of putting forward one parade proposal after another here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150518	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150526	The Enhedslisten has made a proposal to cancel the savings on state preparedness. One might be tempted to say that one could probably replace the last three words and then Enhedslisten could table a motion for a resolution on the cancellation of savings on anything, because that is probably the political programme of the party. As we see in the Liberal Alliance, we actually supported the agreement that the government made with the Left and the Danish People's Party in its time to make these savings. First of all, we did so on the basis of the idea that if a government which, in our opinion, does not pursue a responsible economic policy, believes that savings can be made, then there must be real savings. In other words, if this government means it, there must be potential. That does not mean, of course, that everything is chiseled in granite. Of course, new situations may arise. Everyone may have become more aware of some things after the tragic events of the terrorist attack in Copenhagen. And perhaps there is good reason to see things in a context, both this preparedness, but also the ordinary police and defence work. Sometimes Enhedslisten could ask himself the question: Can you organize things better instead of just saying that the answer to any question is to pour more money into? It may well be that we could organise things better and thus have a better preparedness than we have today for the money that we are planning to spend. Ultimately one can also imagine that the assumption from the Enhedslisten is correct, that is, that more funds are needed when one has gone deeper. Then you come to the priority issue of where to find the money? That is where we are left with what I started out, namely that we can almost now predict that wherever we find the money, in one year's time we will have a draft parliamentary resolution from the Enhedslisten to cancel the savings at the place where the money was found. 'Cause that's how it works. So I think there is a basic lack of such a more economically responsible mindset on the part of Enhedslisten, in order to find out how to actually finance a society. In other words, if we implemented the Enhedslisten social model, there would certainly be some change and a lack of money in the public sector in a few years' time, because we had eaten of the reserves and been after all the people who deliver the values of this society. In relation to the proposal, we cannot vote in favour, but we assume that we will be invited to negotiations like everyone else when it comes to looking at this. And then we will take a constructive approach to the question of whether it can be organised better and whether more funds should be spent on this, if need be, if need be, we will help to take responsibility for finding them as well. We say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150830	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150835	Now it is actually the case that Denmark already has Europe's probably cheapest preparedness today. Now there will be a massive 25 per cent saving. It can be said that it is no wonder that the Liberal Alliance does not object to saving and reducing public service, but I would like to hear from the Liberal Alliance: can we indicate where these savings can be found, so that it is safe and so that we ensure that the same service and help can be given to the Danes in the event of disasters and accidents?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508150913	It would be nice if Enhedslisten had the same automatic where Denmark is the most expensive country they have, where we are the cheapest, because when we are the cheapest, we should automatically spend more money, but when we are the most expensive, should there not be the automatic, that we automatically spend less money? If that was just what was automatic all around, then I think that Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance could make a Finance Act, because then we are prepared to raise Denmark all the places where we are cheapest, if we just lower it all the places where we are the most expensive, because then we will certainly have a significantly smaller public sector. Having said that, I do not think it is my responsibility to indicate where the savings should be in concrete terms. An agreement has been reached between the Government, the Left and the Danish People's Party... not with the votes of the Liberal Alliance. After all, it is not the Liberal Alliance that has been involved in the conclusion of the agreement. I have the government's word that this can be done responsibly. The government that sits only because Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen and his party want it, say that this can be done in a responsible way. We choose to believe that. If we otherwise know the very great reluctance of this government to make public efficiency, we must believe that, when it means it, it must be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508151028	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508151031	That's not an answer, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. The Liberal Alliance is part of the emergency settlement. The Liberal Alliance has started implementing some of the savings that have been decided. The Liberal Alliance must be on target for what preparedness it creates in Denmark. If today's Liberal Alliance refuses to cancel those savings and find some other money, then we must be able to demonstrate where those savings should be made, so that the Danes are not disadvantaged in the event of terrorist attacks or in the event of floods and storms in the future. Surely it is not too much to ask the Liberal Alliance to know what consequences the savings that have been agreed to implement will have for the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508151118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508151122	Even if you don't like the answer, it's an answer. I can, of course, elaborate on this by saying that I look forward to hearing Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's talk in a moment, where we will have all the times when there have been problems with the Danish preparedness. In addition, in relation to the terrorist attack which the questioner raises, I would like to say that, with the report presented by the Ministry of Justice the other day, I believe that it is elsewhere to find the problems when it comes to whether the preparation is good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508151154	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then it's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508151202	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party has always paid special attention to preparedness, and from day one we have been opposed to these savings made by the government, the Liberal Party and the Danish People's Party. We'll do what we can to get it rolled back. We have also provided funding for this in our financial legislation and in our 2020 plan, etc. It is, of course, a rare fact that the Enhedslisten is tabling a motion for a resolution in this Chamber, with which we agree, but here we have a similar view, and one can only be pleased that there can be agreement between the parties once in a while. Perhaps you should start by defining what state preparedness is. You make? There, in Denmark, we have six centres distributed around the country. At the centres there are trained, trained experts who can help deal with emergencies, disaster situations, accident situations such as storms, floods and collapsed buildings and related tasks. They're full-time employees and they're really good at the job. So now they have to save 25 million. kr. in 2015, 75 million. kr. in 2016 and 125 million; kr. in 2017 and 125 million; kr. in the years thereafter. We think that is a completely wrong signal to send out. After all, we are at a time when we know there are climate change. Most Danes will nod to Allan, Bodil, Dagmar and Egon, as the storms have been called, and the accidents they have caused. It has been floods, seriously damaged buildings. The Emergency Board and their employees have helped to prevent, reduce significant damage by being able to move out early, so that there was no flooding in people's homes in some contexts, that buildings did not collapse completely in other contexts, etc. So we think it is quite obvious that we here in the Danish Parliament give priority to a strong, well-functioning rescue and disaster response in Denmark, and that is why we think it would be preferable to strengthen it and secure the emergency response centres we have and the number of people we have at our disposal to step in when it has been necessary and we have historical evidence to say that there have been appropriate intervals. So there are no arguments to say that there is no longer a need. We do not believe at all that it is possible to point out, in the light of the facts, that economies of scale can be achieved here. We believe there is a need for at least six centres in Denmark. There is the difference that municipal preparedness mainly has part-time employees and state preparedness mainly has full-time employees, and then it is clear that when you have part-time employees, you cannot move out as quickly and as efficiently as full-time employees can. Therefore, the municipalities have been able to draw on the Emergency Management Board, which has people on alert who can step in quickly, has the equipment, the equipment needed to be effective immediately, now and here, when the accident occurs. So that effort will also be reduced, because now there are not so many available; we do not have the standing preparedness that we had in the past. So I think this is absolutely crucial, and that is why, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I would just like to say that we agree with the resolution that Enhedslisten is bringing forward to roll it back. We fully agree with that. We have had an independent agenda on this. We think that this is a vertically wrong proposal. And now that the negotiations, which I can hear are being set up a little by the government, by the Left and the Danish People's Party, get under way, we will try to minimize it as much as we possibly can. However, it is of course worrying that savings of 125 million have been planned. kr. a year when we know that there are climate change, more floods, more storms, wilder weather than we have ever seen. So it is a wrong approach that has been negotiated. These should be the words of the Conservative People's Party today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508151608	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, who is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508151628	The emergency aid is doing a really, really good job, and we owe it a great deal of thanks for that. And not least, because we owe it such a great deal of thanks, it is also important that we make ourselves clear that if we cut the preparedness massively, then you weaken the resilience, then you weaken the opportunities that the preparedness has to continue to make the same effort as it is doing today. Unfortunately, the terrible terrorist attack in Copenhagen underlines the importance of a strong response in Denmark. If the terrorist had used explosives instead of firearms, as we have seen in the past in terrorist attacks in London, Madrid and Oslo, a massive effort would have been needed from fire and rescuers. Such action is weakened by the planned savings in preparedness. It is deeply irresponsible to cut the alert at a time when we can see that it is needed. Denmark already has an inexpensive response. I have never heard the debate today, nor have I heard anyone point out that there should be excess fat in this area. On the contrary, we need our preparedness. If the terrible thing should happen, we will be hit by a terrorist attack, but we do, as we see it, time and again when we have to deal with the harsher weather caused by climate change. We have seen how one storm after another has hit Denmark. In this context, the emergency response has done a great job, but the same effort cannot be made when massive cuts are made. I have to say, frankly, that I have not heard any factual arguments to cut back either in today's debate or in the countless consultations, questions to the Minister and political discussions that we have had. This lack of objective explanations of how to ensure against the deterioration of preparedness with the massive savings that are being planned causes concern. It doesn't just cause concern in me, it causes concern in many places around Denmark. I mean, it was wrong to cut municipal preparedness. There is no doubt that changes could be made, but there can be no change for reasons of austerity on a preparedness that is already under pressure. Instead, you should have the intention to strengthen the preparedness... you don't do that with savings. In my opinion, it is the saver who has triumphed over the emergency assessment of municipal savings, but unfortunately also in planned government savings. I believe that saving 125 million on state preparedness would be a disaster. That's about 25%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think it is tragic and I fear that the Danes may suffer when the accident or disaster is out. This risks hampering our ability to reach a helping hand through international preparedness when it is needed around the world. We have seen this most recently with the Ebola problems in West Africa; international preparedness has been deployed. It is the weakest who risk being hit, but it is also Denmark's reputation as a country that comes and reaches a helping hand when there is a need for what is at risk of being hit. I fear that it may end up being very expensive for us. The emergency is our joint insurance. The emergency aid is therefore also irresponsible to cut. I must admit that I had hoped that the many problems which, unfortunately, have been caused by storms and floods, not to mention the terrible terrorist attack in Copenhagen, had led the government, had led the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Danish Parliament's other parties to reconsider the reason for cutting this area. I had hoped that there would be support for the proposal from the Enhedslisten to cancel the savings. Unfortunately, I see that is not the case; there is not a majority to cancel the deterioration. At the same time, however, I must say that I have noted that several parties have expressed concern about the savings, and I hope that in the work of the committee we can translate this concern into a report from the committee which addresses it and makes it clear that it exists and that it must be respected so that we avoid a great deterioration in the preparedness, which there is no justification for doing, and which will put the Danes at a disadvantage in future disasters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152128	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152146	The proposal has been put forward by the Minister for Defence, whom I now give the floor. No, it is not quite said by me). I'm sorry! The proposal has been tabled by the Enhedslisten, but it is addressed to the Minister for Defence, whom I now give the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152217	The latter is absolutely right. By 2020 the Danish F16 aircraft will have been on their wings for approx. In other words, they are approaching retirement age for 40 years. That is also why a process has been initiated towards the purchase of new fighter aircraft for the Danish defence. We in Denmark have a tradition of an open debate on major defence policy decisions and priorities, and in relation to the choice of combat aircraft type, the government's clear approach is that there must be maximum transparency on the basis of decision-making. For example, I want to ensure that the evaluation models and methods used in each evaluation area are made public. At the same time, there are a number of objective and reasonable considerations which make certain information impossible to make public. It may be information that is militaryly classified and it may be commercially confidential information. It is not only about regard for the fighter aircraft manufacturers, but also about security policy considerations regarding Denmark's cooperation relations with the countries involved. Finally, of course, we must protect the public's financial interests by not publishing information that could weaken Denmark's future negotiating position in relation to the final purchase of combat aircraft. Thus, it is the government's approach that the information from the decision-making base that can be published will be made public and that it will be made available to all and not only reserved for the defence committees. Against this background, it is my clear recommendation that the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152414	Thank you. In other words, what this motion for a resolution is all about is presenting the basis for the decision and the criteria on which it is intended as a result of the procurement process. What consideration of ally parties or other considerations does it make impossible for this information to be left open to the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152440	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152444	As I have just explained, the government's approach is that there must be maximum openness. It is a major investment that we as a country have to make, and therefore it is quite natural that it has a public interest and that there is also an opportunity to see what we have been basing our decisions on. That is why, as I said, among other things. With regard to evaluation models and the methods used in each evaluation area, it will be published so that everyone can see what we have taken stock of. But I also hope that the Enhedslisten will understand that there may be military classified information and that, for example, there may also be commercially confidential information that we cannot put out openly, because it will make it very difficult to have a confidential and proper process with the countries and the aircraft manufacturers with whom we would like to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152545	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152548	Basically, I do not understand that. In other words, there may be exceptions which could then be justified, but we are talking about the basis of decision and the criteria on which it is intended to choose aircraft. You should be able to tell the Folketing that. It is relatively simple information that has a clear public interest, since we are dealing with such a huge purchase. There has to be just one concrete argument which is understandable to the rest of us and which can be highlighted as evidence of this closeness in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152630	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152633	I must reject the idea of a closed approach, on the contrary. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen should be pleased today that the message from this platform is that we want as much openness as possible. But in the real world, it is also the case that military classified information is not something you just look up at the front door. This is, of course, something that the countries concerned, but indeed the manufacturers concerned, are very reluctant to enter the open space, because people who may have bad intentions could, for example, do so. the terrorist organization, ISIL, does not really want to give all the details of what a new Danish fighter plane has of opportunities, let alone what may be of limitations on the aircraft in question. That is why we want to put forward everything we can, but we also have respect for the fact that there can be things, including things that we can do. military classified information which cannot be put forward in the public domain.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152741	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152750	Thank you. It is rare that I find reason and have the opportunity to say that the Minister for Defence says something that is sensible. You have to do that, even if it's Friday. In fact, I think that the speech just made by the Minister for Defence in relation to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten cannot be more clear. That is why there is no reason to delay this debate. I fully agree with what the Minister for Defence has said and we are against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152818	But it doesn't hold Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen from a brief remark, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152823	Now, of course, I would say that the Minister for Defence got off a little light, because the Minister for Defence says that we want the greatest possible openness, but that, unfortunately, we cannot just open up to this rather banal level, which is about the basis of decision and the criteria on which decisions will be made on which fighter planes we will choose. So I would like to hear: what are the concerns of the Left? What exactly will be the problem from the point of view of the Left by putting this open to the Folketing? After all, we are talking about a two-digit billion amount which needs to be invested. These are Danish tax dollars. And unfortunately, we have seen before that there have been mispurchases in the defence. Wouldn't it be good to put it out openly so that we might be more eyes to look at it and avoid mistakes?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508152914	Well, I admit it is important that there are many eyes that look at it, and in particular I think that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's eyes are absolutely crucial to this process. That is why neither of us has any objection to the possibility of discussing the purchase of fighter aircraft. However, it is clear that not all information can simply be disclosed openly. In fact, I have to say that I do not understand why Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen does not want to listen to what the Secretary of Defense has said. I think the Minister for Defence has explained in detail that there may be things that are classified and that cannot be put forward. But that cannot come as a surprise, for example. Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen I do not suppose that there is, for example, a link between the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. must be presented with an act when buying fighter planes. That goes without saying. So it's not like you just buy it and then it flies all the way under the radar. Everyone knows that there is, of course, publicity about this, but there may be things in connection with the purchase that cannot be made public. That's the way it is, and I'm actually very comfortable with that. So it was, I think, if you look at how you bought back F-16s 40 years ago. Then it was the same way you did it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153013	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153017	So now we are talking about the basis of decision and the criteria which are intended to be used for purchasing. That is, of course, the basic prerequisite for a real debate. If the Folketing does not see that information, it is very difficult to have a public debate on what should be the criteria; what the basis for decision should be; and what should be decided at all. It can of course be said that it is convenient to sit in the defence conciliation circle behind closed doors so that you can make the decision without a great deal of public debate. But isn't it a problem that there can't be a proper and enlightened debate about this very large purchase, which is being planned from among others. Left side?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153101	Well, it is not the case that the Secretary of Defense and the Left are suggesting that this should run completely in a dark room where you can't discuss it at all. There will be an orientation at some point in the defence chain. Then I note that the Minister for Defence has said today that everything that can be put forward in relation to the decision-making basis and that does not compromise the countries that are candidate countries in relation to buying those of their aircraft that you then choose to buy, he is willing to put forward in a public discussion and a public process. That's how I have to understand it. I'm pretty comfortable with that. But I am also quite confident about that, I think it is also due to say today that the entire decision-making framework may not be available, as there may be things in parts of the offer made by the various aircraft manufacturers and hence the respective countries that are silent, which are classified. I am quite happy with that. But I think sir... Nikolaj Villumsen can be quite confident that it is not the case that we are going to make a decision without there being public discussion about it. I think that Enhedslisten should look forward to it coming, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153206	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153218	Soon we will be faced with a major decision: we will have to buy new fighter aircraft for defence for a fairly large amount of money. It places a major task on the defence committees, which we also take very seriously from the Socialist side, and we fully agree with the Enhedslisten on those issues. The need for the new fighter aircraft is based on an agreement in the field of defence concluded for 2013-2017. The 2009 report of the Defence Commission sets out a number of tasks that the fighter aircraft will have to solve in the future. New combat aircraft are expected to be used in the full range of international and national interventions, like the coalition against ISIL and the air policy tasks that Danish fighter aircraft have solved in recent months. The abolition of new fighter aircraft must therefore ensure that Denmark continues to be able to help cope with the type of tasks in which we engage in operational cooperation with other allies, in other words combat aircraft that have flexibility in relation to different tasks. Here we must ensure an operational and a fully developed aircraft and an investment that has security in terms of price and delivery. The Socialists would like to contribute as much as possible to providing information to the public and, at the same time, we also recognise that there is a need for confidentiality on a great deal of information on which the resolution will be based, and that is why we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal today. And I should like to say from the Radical Left, who could not be here, that they cannot support it either. However, we support the ambition of openness and transparency as much as possible in relation to the task that we must undertake.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153352	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153356	Thank you. But is it not a prerequisite for a good and open debate that we know the basis for the decision and that we know the criteria on which we intend to base the procurement? Is it not necessary for there to be a good debate on this in the Folketing and in the public domain? In other words, is that not the way it should be if you are a socialist?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153419	That is exactly what I said in my rapporteur's speech, in other words, that everything that can be done can have individual cases in relation to classification, in relation to the fact that we need to be in a negotiating situation where we could be weakened if there was some information that came out. There must be as much openness and as much transparency as is possible at all, and that should not only be reserved for the defence committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153438	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153441	Well, that's good. And it is clear that there are some things that may have to be classified. But when are we going to put it forward? In other words, it is important not to do so at the last minute if there is to be a debate, but to do so at a time when there may be an open and enlightened public debate about it. So what do the Socialists think would be appropriate in terms of having proper time for discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153509	In fact, I think it was a fine concession that came from Enhedslisten's rapporteur here, in other words that there are some things that should be classified. That is exactly what we are saying: there must be as much openness as possible. Things must be put forward in good time so that we can, with a clear conscience, make the right decision as to what fighter planes we should have in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153529	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153536	Danish defence is about to invest in new fighter planes. It is a long and difficult procedure which, for a number of reasons, cannot be conducted in full public. This is due, among other things, to: This is due to the possibility of negotiating prices with producers. Like the rapporteur from the Left, I would like to agree with the Minister for Defence's excellent explanation of why it cannot be presented completely to the public, and I would therefore also like to say that the Danish People's Party cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153610	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, speaking for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153625	We fully agree with Enhedslisten that we must have the decision-making basis for the purchase of the fighter aircraft published. That is also what is happening. There's an open door coming in with this motion for a resolution. This is one of the most superfluous proposals we have dealt with in the Folketing in this parliamentary assembly, because, as the Minister for Defence says, it will be published.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153652	That triggered a brief remark from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153656	After all, it is a good thing if it has already led to its being published and has thereby pressed the defence reconciliation parties or what has happened. What I would like to hear from the SF is when you think it should be published, and what do you think the SF should be the criteria? For example, is it important to fly in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153719	First of all, it is important that you have some aircraft that can fly. And that's what Enhedslisten doesn't want, I understand. So that is certainly a first condition. At that time, there will be a basis which will also include the conditions that have been required to operate in this choice of aircraft type. By the way, a lot of work has been done on this. If sir... Nikolaj Villumsen will sit down and read the Commission's 2008 report he will see that there is a long, long description of why fighters are needed and what particular emphasis should be placed on that. There will be new things, that is clear, but that is one of the things we will have ample opportunity to discuss when the decision-making basis is presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153809	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153810	As I understand it, there are at least problems with the fact that the favourite, the Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, cannot yet fly, at least not without having great, deadly problems. It is good to hear that the SF believes that the basis for the decision should be put forward. Hopefully the criteria will also have to be put forward. I would like to hear, because I do not really think I was given an answer: when should they be put forward? As I see it, it is important that they are put forward in good time so that there can be a public debate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153839	There's a process going on at the moment, where there's a special office in the Ministry of Defence that's processing these various offers that's been made. It is not something that has yet reached the line of defense. I mean, when the time comes, it will come out. I think that on this point too one can arm oneself with patience, revolutionary patience, as Mao Zedong said at the time. It may also be good for Enhedslisten in this case, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153908	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508153917	It is, of course, a proposal on which one can immediately think, when one sees it, that it sounds sympathetic. I also think that Enhedslisten has written it because they are, of course, a party that is generally in favour of openness, and then they have thought that openness about everything is always good. But it is a proposal which has a logic which means that if you spread it out, you should also ask to find out the work of the intelligence service, that is, what is at the root of every detail, because of course you have to have openness. It doesn't make any sense, but it would be the logic that should come through if you followed the logic from here. In fact, I think it was wrong when the proposer said to the Minister for Defence that there were no answers or justifications. It's all wrong. It was said that there were both military and commercial reasons for not fulfilling the wishes of Enhedslisten. Does Enhedslisten really imagine that I am excited to hear that you can go in detail and talk about how exactly an aircraft should be composed, what things it should be able to do, what benefits there should be? It seems like an echo from a time when the extreme left was very eager to tell about how our defenses were linked to those who did not want Denmark well. After all, this is exactly the same result as the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten. That is said as a representative of one of the parties, as if someone has fought for openness in this Parliament. In fact, I think that the matter of wanting more openness in decisions in this Parliament is being harmed. You hurt the case of opening because you drive it to where most people can see it doesn't make sense. Therefore, it will be easier for the opponents of openness to shut down where it is relevant to have more openness. So I think you've shot yourself a little in the foot and been a little overwhelmed, to put it that way. So we cannot support the proposal of the Liberal Alliance either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154206	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154210	I think we should take that debate with the Danes. I believe that very few Danes will agree with the Liberal Alliance that something as trivial as the demands that are made on that plane for perhaps up to 30 billion. kr., does not have to be published. I think that most Danes will agree with Enhedslisten that it is an important question whether that plane can fly in the Arctic, whether that plane can fly without being in danger of spinning around and breaking into fire, which was the latest report on the favorite plane, Joint Strike Fighter. You'd like to see that before you spend 30 billion tax dollars. I have to say that the position of the Liberal Alliance, with which it is impossible to put it forward, puzzles me a great deal. We are talking about the biggest public procurement in Danish history. Should there not be just a certain degree of openness about the basis of decision and the criteria that are intended to be used as the basis for this massive procurement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154310	I will always have a debate with Enhedslisten both here and elsewhere about the correctness of Denmark having a proper defence and having to have some decent aircraft, and about not publishing details about what that plane should and should not be able to do, because it could harm Denmark's interests in relation to terrorist organisations and countries that threaten Denmark. I will have a debate on that with the Enhedslisten at any time. Well, then, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has his faith in how many will agree with him, and how many will agree with me, in peace. I think there's something else on this issue that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, but I don't have my opinions because I'm going after 51 percent. agree or disagree with me. I have them because they are right and because it will damage Denmark's defence capabilities if you follow Enhedslisten's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154410	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154412	I'm not standing here asking to bring out all sorts of deep-seated things. I am simply asking for the basis for decision and the criteria which are intended to be used for the largest public procurement in Danish history, which the Liberal Alliance wants to make together with other parties in the Folketing. Frankly, I am surprised that the Liberal Alliance will not put these things forward. That should be quite banal. With other similar huge projects, where two-digit billions have been spent, we have seen that there is openness on the basis of decision-making and criteria used to make the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154449	If sir... Nikolaj Villumsen believes what he is saying, and not what he is proposing, he can of course welcome the fact that a basis for decision will be presented. There will be. That has been said by the Secretary of Defense. But the problem is that this discussion illustrates once again that Danish defence policy is too important to leave to the Enhedslisten, because Enhedslisten is not sufficiently concerned that we ensure that the secrets that may be are preserved ensure that Danish defence is as strong as possible in relation to countries and terrorist organisations that will harm us. Enhedslisten takes too lightly the defence of Danish freedom. That must be what we can conclude after today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154550	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then it's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154557	Thank you, sir. President. I would also just like to agree with the very thorough statement by the Minister for Defence. I think that the Minister had a good look at all the details and explained very well why things are as they are. The first thing you can say is that if you want to have full influence, you have to be part of the conciliation circle, you also have to share in taking and giving and also paying some of the burdens. But the Enhedslisten stays out of it all the time. It's no wonder, when you look at what political basis Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen and Enhedslisten are on. It's communist/very left-wing socialist. You want to put an end to the army, the air force and the Navy, you want to shut down the police, and then I consider a resolution like this to be a general opposition proposal, which obviously wants as much information as possible to the public, so that opponents of the defence know as much about us as possible, so that we can be more easily defeated. It's kind of put on the tip, but that's what it's all about. I think it is a completely distorted agenda. It is a waste of Parliament's time to set such an agenda today because it is a conclusion: The Enhedslisten does not want to support a strong, solid Danish defence, which can at any time defend and protect Denmark and Denmark's interests. One is more interested in bringing oneself into focus with some very strange agendas, of which this one is one of the most strange. So we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154725	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154730	I hope that the Conservative rapporteur has noticed that I have said that there are, of course, confidential things that we do not demand. But is it really the position of the Conservatives that the basis and criteria for these combat aircraft purchases, which the Conservatives and a large number of other parties in the Folketing intend to make, should only be presented within the conciliation circle and that they should not be available to the public?
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154758	Well, there is a clear commitment from the Minister that a basis for decision will be laid out. The Minister has announced this, so it is a pseudo-debate to continue to ask the same questions. But whatever it is, there are things that are not suitable for public access. There are things that have to be secret. We cannot reveal all the details and specifications of our weapons, so that others too can disable them in the easiest way. Everyone must understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154824	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154827	I think it is good to hear that the Conservatives actually want this basis of decision and these criteria laid open to the Folketing. But why not support this proposal? That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154844	Enhedslisten tries to be in opposition to the military, to the police, and you want in all sorts of strange ways to stick a stick in the wheel so that we have a strong, effective, functional defence that can match the enemies we have at any time, and therefore I could never dream of getting on the agenda of the Enhedslisten. On the contrary, I want to distance myself significantly from it in any context, because I think it is destructive in terms of protecting Danish interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154913	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508154926	This debate is about openness. It is about openness about Danish history's probably largest public procurement. The parties from SF to Dansk Folkeparti plan to buy new fighter planes. The amount may be around 30 billion. kr. It's a printout that's above the printout to an Øresund Bridge. Politics, as you know, is about making choices and making priorities. It is no secret that in the Enhedslisten we would much rather see that this huge amount of money was spent on welfare and green conversion. But today's debate is about something more fundamental. It's about guaranteeing democratic transparency about this huge amount of money. Despite extremely large investments, there has been a great deal of silence, a great deal of secrecy about the purchase. In fact, I believe that if you go out and ask the people, there will be many Danes who do not know about the purchase of fighter aircraft at all. I think that's too bad. It is a major decision and it is important that we take major decisions in an open and democratic debate. We must ensure, for all things in the world, that the population can be involved, can help to gain insight into what is going to happen with up to 30 billion tax dollars. But it's not too late. We still have the opportunity to bring forward some more openness, to put forward what we intend to do in relation to the decision-making basis and criteria for making this purchase. So there's an opportunity. We have previously seen the opportunities spent on projects such as the Fehmarn Project, the Øresund Bridge and the Storebælt Bridge. It has been comparable amounts of tax dollars, but there have been large, publicly available reports. It is important that plans to purchase new fighter planes involve the Folketing, involving the population. There must, of course, be an open debate on a billion-dollar investment, which should not be conducted solely behind closed doors in the defence circle. Right now, the Department of Defense's New Battlefly Program is working to complete the decision-making framework, which includes evaluations of the three combat aircraft candidates, Eurofighter, Joint Strike Fighter and Super Hornet. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we believe that there should be openness on the basis of the decision-making basis, that there should be transparency on the criteria to be emphasised when the defence committee has to choose between these three fighter planes. I can hear from the Minister for Defence today that the decision-making basis and the criteria will actually be laid forward. I think that is a good thing, and I will sign for that. But I miss hearing when it will happen. Of course, what is crucial is that this happens at a time when there is an opportunity to gain insight before the decision is taken quickly, so that we ensure that the criteria and the decision-making basis can be open to debate and that there can be insight into it widely for us in the Folketing. I would like to say that it is positive that we want the basis for decisions and the criteria to be put forward. That is why, of course, I am also surprised that there is no broad majority in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal today. It would be a good thing if we could get together on this openness. We cannot do that, but I hope that it will be put forward in good time so that we can have a good and enlightened debate on this very, very large purchase that we are planning to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508155324	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508155339	The debate is open. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508155401	Thank you. Mrs Jane Heitmann, who is the rapporteur on the proposal, is actually the rapporteur for the prevention rapporteur of the Left, but since she has no opportunity to be here, you will have to settle for my poor company here at the end of Friday. At the same time, I must also say that we are speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. The first reading here today concerns the law amending the law on smoke-free environments, and this is a legislative proposal which should actually have been a revision of the existing law on smoke-free environments. The government has then chosen to put forward a bill that, instead of revising the applicable legislation, postpones the revision that should have been carried out now to take place instead in the parliamentary year 2015-2016. This then means that it will be a new government which will have to lead the audit in parentheses, then we must hope that it will be better than the current one, but that is another matter. The government's argument for postponing the review is that it would like to extend the scope of the law to include e-cigarettes, so that the use of e-cigarettes is to some extent like smoking, as stated in the comments to the bill. When you choose to postpone it, it is because you say: because we are not ready with the whole regulation of the e-cigaret area, we also want to postpone this part. It could be said that the two things, namely the directive, the EU Tobacco Products Directive, and the smoke-free environment law, have nothing to do with each other as such. We could deal with the two matters separately, but in the case of the Left, we can also live with the fact that we are postponing this part and taking it instead in the coming assembly. We therefore agree with the comments made by the government in relation to the bill that, in addition to the question of e-cigarettes, there is no need for the Folketing to introduce more or new bans into the smoking law. Against this background, the Left and therefore the Conservative People's Party can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508155616	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508155625	Thank you very much. I must also say that, in addition to speaking on behalf of the Socialists, I am also speaking on behalf of the Radicals, and there is perhaps some connection with the fact that what Mrs Sophie Løhde from the Left said is just Friday afternoon. In relation to this bill, I would say that we have a smoking law, as we normally call it in popular power, but it is a law on smoke-free environments that we adopted back in 2006 with a very broad political majority in this Parliament. It is a law that must ensure the working environment in relation to being able to work in different places without, for example, having to be exposed to passive smoking. We decided at the time that we would also revise the law after 3 years we postponed a tiny bit, but we have revised the law once, and in exactly the same way it was decided at that time that we would then have to do a further review of the law, i.e. a revision. And it is here that, as Mrs Sophie Løhde has just outlined, there are good arguments for saying that we would like to postpone the revision to the next session of Parliament. I would therefore like to say that this makes very good sense both for the Radical Left and for the Socialists, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508155745	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Marie Krarup, rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508155758	Thank you. I have to correct the President-in-Office of the Council. I am not the rapporteur, but I have been given the task of reading out our rapporteur's speech because Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, the rapporteur in this area, cannot be present.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508155813	May I say to that that we in the Bureau have just discussed the problem, that there are many here in the House who are holding speeches from others, and we have decided that we cannot prevent that, but we would rather not hear about it, because what is said in the Chair of Parliament must be spoken for. And if there are any questions, you have to vouch for it too. Excuse me, please continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508155838	That has been noted. With this bill, the government wants to postpone the evaluation of the smoke-free environments law. According to the last revision of the Smoking Act adopted by the Government and Enhedslisten in 2012, an evaluation of the Act was to be carried out in this session. The Danish People's Party was not included in the review agreement, as we found that the legislation got a very paternal twist, unlike the previous smoking law, which was about protecting people other than the smoker from unwanted exposure to tobacco smoke. In addition, we were very concerned about the tightening up of various types of institutions. It could be in post-schools where young smokers with problems could now be thrown out of the institutions. It could be institutions for mentally ill people, hospitals, etc. There are exceptions, but how have they been used, and how have they worked? An evaluation will be able to say something about this. The government states in the bill that the Ministry considers that the Smoking Act is working well. Here we in the Danish People's Party would like a real objective evaluation of the effect and not just the Ministry's subjective experience. The bill links the postponement with e-cigarette legislation, and therefore the government believes that the revision of the smoking law should be postponed. In the Danish People's Party, we do not believe that there is any obstacle to addressing the evaluation of how the Smoking Act works and in this context assess how e-cigarettes might be covered by the Smoking Act, regardless of the technical rules to be applied in the area of e-cigarettes. Therefore, we see no real reason to postpone the evaluation, and therefore the Danish People's Party cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160025	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160033	Thank you, President. You are simply the one who can pronounce my name most accurately from the chair. I'm really glad. This bill is about how we can postpone the revision of the law until the autumn, and we support that. We had seen that we could do something in relation to e-cigarettes, but there are some things that need to be investigated in relation to how and how this law should be combined. So there is full support from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160102	It was short and cash. Thank you to Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic. Then it's Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160114	Thank you. It is also the case that we, the Enhedslisten, can support the postponement of the revision. We also see a need for us to look at electronic cigarettes, but I really think there is some sense in putting the issue of the smoke-free environment law in relation to e-cigarettes together with the issue of the tobacco product directive and the whole regulation of e-cigarettes as such. That is why we can support waiting until we have a little more overview of what the tobacco product directive means for Denmark and what it means for what regulation we should have in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160156	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160204	This proposal raises a certain dilemma for the Liberal Alliance. The Minister wishes to postpone the revision of the current smoking law or law on smoke-free environments, as it is more correctly called. Are you going to vote yes or no? At first sight, we would like the law to be revised so that there could be some liberalisations, understood in such a way that, for example, restaurants, cafes and taverns instead of bans, when they are over a certain size, just had to have a requirement to label whether it is a place where you are allowed to smoke, a place where you are not allowed to smoke, or a place where you have to divide both in one way or another. It would be a good liberalisation that we could go for. If one could now imagine that one could get through with it, then one should vote against postponing the revision of the law and then, like, getting the legislation liberalised. But the world is hardly that good, even if it is Friday afternoon, and then we must end up voting 'yes'. Perhaps the truth is that one could easily imagine that there were a number of members of the Folketing who would like to tighten up the law further and thus make it worse than it is today. As this may in fact be the most likely, one could of course be tempted to table an amendment to postpone the revision of the law to two years, three years, ten years or twenty years, because if it only gets worse when we have to change it, we should never really get there, and then we can live with the minimum of folly that we have today instead of the future expected. But, okay, we're a pragmatic party, and that's why we're voting yes to postpone it for a year. We hope that, at that time, the Folketing will be composed in a way that enables the Liberal Alliance to prevent the worst foolishness and perhaps even to ensure that there are some liberalisations and improvements. So yes to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160412	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it is the Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160422	I am grateful for the positive reception given to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160435	There are no further comments. It is not because we are in favour of sloppy on Fridays there are just no more comments. No one else wanted to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150508160459	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 12 May 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website and would also refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
