ParlaMint-DK_20150324130007	The meeting is open. There are today the following reviews: Christian Juhl (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 100 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of an ethics system). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 101 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the registration of surveillance cameras). Frank Aaen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 102 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the continuation of tax exemptions for electric cars etc.). Per Clausen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 103 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a Natural National Park Gribskov & Esrum Lake). Steen Gade (SF) and others: Question No. F 30 (What can the Government say about government plans for concrete initiatives to protect and adapt construction, infrastructure and technical installations along coasts and fjords, and where there is a risk of groundwater rise and flooding, promote adaptation of primary industries forestry, agriculture and fisheries, and ensure that action plans and legislation on nature, environment and health take into account that the foundations and conditions for protecting and promoting nature, environment and health change?). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and Christian Juhl (EL): Enquiry no. F 31 (Will the Minister explain what consequences an investor-state dispute settlement system (ISDS) of the EU-US Free Trade Agreement, the so-called Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, will have for Denmark?). Jacob Jensen (V), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Mike Legarth (KF): Request no. F 32 (What initiatives will the government take so that it always pays to work rather than to be on public support?). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150324130109	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324130111	Thank you. We have had economic growth in Denmark for six consecutive quarters. Employment has increased by over 32,000 people since spring 2013. Companies have got more to do and last week the National Bank revised its estimate of growth. It expects a relatively sharp increase in employment in the coming years. Family optimism is also high. It's actually the highest one that's been measured for nine years. In short, we are well on the way to putting the economic crisis behind us. Now it's all about the benefits of progress. We're gonna have to bring everyone with us. It must be attractive to live, work and operate in all parts of Denmark. That is why we want to improve the conditions of the agricultural and food sector. It is companies that employ many people in those parts of the country where it can otherwise be difficult to get a job. We have already done a lot for agriculture. We have made it possible to produce more pigs for fattening, we have removed burdens and special rules as part of the growth package. For example: employees are no longer required to attend hygiene courses if it is considered that side-by-side training works better. And with broad support here in the Folketing, we have adopted an ambitious food growth plan. We're halfway through the peripheral area. The processing of livestock permits will be more effective. We need to make better access to finance. We allow new forms of ownership to be sought by farmers for many years. Now they get the opportunity. But even if we have done a great deal, more can be done. The government will do that. We want to give farmers new and better opportunities to invest in modern barn facilities and machines. Total 850 million kr. must be targeted at investments in new and modern livestock and pig farms. This is part of the government's proposal for implementing the rural programme for the next 3 years. We expect it to support investments of up to 3 billion. kr. in Danish agriculture. That is a lot of money and it will generate both growth, benefit the environment and create jobs. Again I would say that it is especially in those parts of Denmark where it is most needed. I hope, of course, that the parties of the Folketing will participate. The Minister for Food is very soon calling for negotiations on the rural programme. The government has also decided to provide Danish milk producers with a repayment scheme so that they can better invest and create new jobs. The reason is that milk producers are given new opportunities to increase production when EU milk quotas cease. We know that Danish milk producers and dairies are already competitive on the world market, and that is why more have started to expand production. But that also means that they will have a tax of around 200 million. kr. This year because they have exceeded the quotas. We are now giving the opportunity to pay the taxes back over three years instead of one year. We want to promote investment and jobs in agriculture, and that is why we have put these things forward. Today we have a new party for Question Time. I'd like to bid Mr. Uffe Elbæk and the Alternative welcome to the debate. Then today we have also extended Question Time with the North Atlantic Members. Last week I signed a joint declaration with the President of the Government and the President of the European Commission on Greenland's partnership with the European Union. That is an important statement. It sends a strong signal that we want to extend and strengthen our joint cooperation, for example. in the fields of raw materials, climate and energy, research and tourism. I look forward again today to discussing and answering general questions about the Kingdom community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324130506	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introductory statement. We now turn to questions from the party leaders. And I repeat that the rules are: in the first round, the questioner and Prime Minister have both up to two minutes' speaking time, and then follow two rounds, where both have up to one minute's speaking time. Sir. Loop Rasmussen as the leader of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324130528	Thank you so much. I guess we'll learn someday. To begin with, I would like to acknowledge the Prime Minister's presentation on agriculture, although it was somewhat narrow with rural funds. It has been a few months since I asked here during Question Time whether the time had not come for us to do something really for an agriculture that is actually pressed to its knees. We have put forward a 16-point programme, and if the government wants to discuss it with us at some point in time, so that we can give our agriculture some real competitive improvements, we would be happy to do so. But otherwise I was going to go somewhere else, because it is now the case that the elections are approaching day by day, that has been the case throughout the parliamentary term, but now it is starting to happen. And just as there may have been a pattern in the President's warnings about the speaking time, where one knows that we tend to exceed it, there are other patterns that can be seen to be repeated. The last time we went to the polls, the Social Democratic Party went to the polls with a fair solution and fair change, two teachers in all classrooms, lower rates of public transport, more money for the municipalities I think it is two thirds of the country's municipalities that today have less money, but then everyone had to have more money for them on transfer income, which among other things. were to be paid by millionaire tax and share turnover tax, benefit reform and early retirement reform had to be rolled back, and everything could be fixed in 12 minutes. That was how it was played out for the last election campaign until the usual methods of calculation were met and the whole thing fell apart and turned out to be underfunded with somewhere between 22 billion. kr. and 39 billion. kr. A lot of promises were broken, and I shall not dwell on that much, because I am actually very pleased that things were going as they were, and now the Danish economy is doing better, and it is doing so because the government did not pursue the policy on which it was elected, but has largely pursued the policy that it was against until it became a government. But now we are again approaching a choice, and now I think we are beginning to see a pattern repeating itself. And to run this debate, I would just like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister will unfold this precautionary principle, because that is at least one of the things that I myself enjoyed when you came down from the black tower: what you had chosen was no longer recognizable, but instead there was a precautionary principle. Couldn't we start by putting a few words on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324130809	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324130812	Firstly, I very much welcome the positive reception of our proposals on agriculture. I think that is very important for agriculture, and I hope, of course, that the Left will support that in the future. There was a question at the end of the day from Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. We had to go through a lot before there was a question, but there was a question and it was about the precautionary principle. In fact, I believe that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has a little forgotten the last election campaign. It can also be hard to remember when you were as actively involved as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was • but we actually went to the polls on a precautionary principle. We held a press conference in the election campaign and it was about the precautionary principle. It is about not spending more money than you have, and it has been a very useful principle all the way through. This is among other things. That is why we have managed the public sector economy. Back then, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister, after all, the budgets did not last year. It was easier to win on your lottery ticket than to be sure that the budgets were kept out in the municipalities and in the state. We have walked away from that principle. Now it is the case that the budgets are being kept, and that is because spending too much money at the time does not make you richer. After all, it was a misguided economic policy that we have now corrected. Before the elections, we said that we had a precautionary principle and, of course, we did so after the elections, so that the budgets now hold. Danish economy is under control. It is not the case that in this parliamentary term we have done everything that the Left would have liked, fortunately not, but the Danish economy is under control so that the bills are paid and we have the opportunity to spend a little more money every year on our welfare. We have set aside 27 billion. kr. over the next year, when the Left has set aside 0 DKK. So the precautionary principle is that you have a buffer in your economy and do not spend more money than you do. It's something new we've introduced with this government. It wasn't like that when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131002	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131004	Thank you. The precautionary principle, as we read about it in the government programme, is • and now I quote directly: the grace room is provided in accordance with a precautionary principle, so that improvements can only be made once the funding has been provided. I think that is a very good principle, but it does not fit in with the fact that you can now see that one bill after another is pushed into the future. Let us just try to be concrete: the government has presented some initiatives on top of the terrible terrorist act we saw in Copenhagen almost a month ago, and I assume that the government itself believes that the terrorist package that has been put forward represents precisely such an improvement. So I am actually asking to be specific just whether the Prime Minister can explain here how the 417 million. kr., which is missing in the period 2016-2018 in order to afford the government's terror package, must be financed. I think it would be nice to get an answer to just to start somewhere. Because we have a number of other bills that are conveniently pushed over the next election date.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131116	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131118	Well, now Mr. Bailey jumped. Lars Løkke Rasmussen just 2015 over. Because what I would like to answer is whether the Left and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will help here in the Folketing to support that we can actually spend money on the extra expenses we have this year on the basis of the terrorist attack. I can tell you that there is going to be an action over and I hope that the Left will support that action. Whether the Left will support that act has not been answered by the Left in the public debate. As far as the future is concerned, there has been an open negotiating hand to the Left. We have said that we would like to dedicate this money now, together with the Left, to the Left. And there we have got a blank 'no' from the Left, where we do not want to shake hands with the fact that from 2016 onwards, too, the money needed for a terrorist package will be set aside. If the Left had said 'yes' and that it really would have been good to do so, then we would have been able to roll our terrorist package over the next many years. When it is not possible, it is because the Left does not want to be in it. And I think that is linked to the fact that it is the Left that has a problem. It is the Left that does not have funding for all the things you go and promise the Danes. The government has, for we have organized our economic policy so that year by year we can add a little more to our welfare society. The Left cannot, because there you work with zero growth, and that means that there is 0 kr. I'm gonna put it upstairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131248	Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and this is the last time in this stripe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131251	I think I made a lot of effort to ask a very specific question about where these 417 million are. kr. come from, but I didn't get an answer. And it has been the hops in this discussion, namely that we would very much like to take responsibility for lifting some appropriations for the police, but should we not find the money at the same time? They haven't been found... the government hasn't called in funding. On the contrary, the government is operating with a huge cliff, so that the police have everything else right this year with lower appropriations, unless you fill up the cliff before, and then you have bigger financial challenges. It is not clear to me where the 417 million. kr. Come from. The Prime Minister would like to draw a picture of how the store is handled. And I understand that, because the government was born with an economic policy that fell apart, as soon as it appeared in government offices it fell apart completely. And that is, of course, why one does not want to speak very openly about the fact that one is now repeating the work of art. Let me take another example. A reform of the electricity market has been agreed; that is what is called the wholesale model, and that is a little technical. There the government has shot the Ikraf date 1 year, and when you read the bill, you can see that it says it has shot to 1 May 2016 to prevent the expected one-time deficit of 1 billion. kr. the introduction of the wholesale model falls in 2015, and this is to ensure that Denmark stays within the deficit limit of the EU Stability and Growth Package in 2015. If you have to translate it into Danish, it means that there is something the government wants to do here, but as it has to push 2016 because it cannot afford it. President: kr., but probably more, if you also look at Togfonden DK, PESO challenges and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131448	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will have some more time afterwards. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131451	It happens sometimes in politics that you are going to launch an attack on someone, and then it comes right back to you. For this illustrates that although there will indeed be expenses in both 2016, 2017 and so on. Left can't afford those bills. Just when you had to put forward a financial bill yourself, you had to use all the reserves and encourage the municipalities to open their budgets. You don't have the money. So, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen: This is right back at you. It is the Left which does not have a penny for this expenditure, whereas the government has organized economic policy, so that year by year we have room for the kind of expenditure described here. And what the Left owes to do is if you're so worried about whether there's money for some of these things... is to present a financial plan. The government has put forward an economic plan rather than how it will look in the years up to 2020, and we have the money. Left goes for election on zero growth. Where is the funding of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131608	Let's get to the second stripe. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131611	The Prime Minister also had a plan, the last time the Prime Minister went to the polls to become Prime Minister. It was a plan that based itself in 12 minutes, and when it was implemented, a paradise would almost arise on earth. There would be two teachers in all classrooms, and the fare on the buses would fall by 40%. I even got some rock maps from the Prime Minister at the transfer shop, where the Prime Minister told me to look after them and that they would be worth less over time. I have taken care of them and am delighted that there has been an increase in value in the rock card I received back then is perhaps the best investment ever. Nothing really happened, and I understand that the Prime Minister now wants to create a picture of how it is handled. But you have to be specific. Let me ask you something else. In connection with the creation of the Togfonden DK, it has been said throughout Denmark that there will now be investments for 28.5 billion. kr. There's just the small problem that the oil price has been rattled down. If you ask in Kraka, they answer that this fund is underfunded by 18 billion. kr., that is that out of the 28 billion. kr. We're missing 18 billion. kr. If I understand the agreement that has been made here correctly, then it is that what needs to be built must be built. And if the money isn't there, you have to find it somewhere else. Where's the other place? Is it tax increases, is it some nurses that have to be fired because a new train bridge has to be built over Vejle Fjord, or what is it? It's no use just standing here and answering back a little smartly. I mean, how are they supposed to promise the 28.5 billion? kr. in the Train Fund DK, which the government has given, will be paid out when the oil price has fallen and perhaps 18 billion is missing. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131754	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131756	I would hope that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has gotten rid of his rock map now, because now you have to use the travel map, so it's a completely different thing to do when you have to take the train or the bus. To return to this, I would like to say that there are no clever remarks. What is lacking in clarity in the Danish economy is how the Left will finance these things forward-looking. Of course, there are things that need to be financed in the future • much of it has been agreed with the Left itself, so they themselves are responsible for that. But couldn't the Left come up with a plan rather than how to finance these things? We've done it. We have put forward a plan which means that year by year we have 3 billion. kr. more to use in the public sector. The left has a large round zero, so when the Left says that there is a lack of funding, I would say to the Left: look at yourselves. For it is the Left that lacks funding, even for things that they have already agreed with us. We do not need funding because we have organized economic policy, so not every available penny should be spent on tax cuts, but on the contrary we can afford to develop our public sector and can also afford unforeseen costs. The Left is far away from it in their economic policy and the debate could of course be helped by the fact that the Left laid a clear plan rather than their economic policy for Denmark. Give me some answers, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131917	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324131920	That was the answer to the question of what to do with the promises made to the Danes when this fund of 28 billion. kr., maybe it's missing 18 billion. Well, I think it speaks for itself. But we can just move on. There's a refugee influx to Denmark, I guess. 15,000 last year and it is the largest influx in 15 years. How is it financed? Yes, it has been financed by a one-off cut in development aid of 1 billion. kr. Then we must hope that they will all return home until the end of the year, and we must also hope that the opportunities that exist for family reunification after a year will not really be taken up by anyone, that there will be no children and that there will be no spouses. Because if you don't, you have a problem. But there's no reason to even talk 2016 here. You can just talk autumn. Because when you look into this, the government has created the impression that you've got things under control. One billion will have to be saved. kr. In the field of development aid, but only half of them have been identified. The second half billion is said: we will return to that in the autumn, if that is the case. Well, it's a confession case. It is pure speculation that there is a parliamentary election with certainty before we come out of 2015, and then a bonus has just been added to after the elections. President: Thank you! ) Perhaps here today the Prime Minister could reveal how this half-billion from development aid, which has been committed but not yet implemented, is to be found. What will you do if refugees also arrive in 2016? And what will you do with the challenge that comes from the possibility of family reunification in 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132105	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132109	It is the case that the budgeting of asylum costs at least for many years I shall not be able to reply to how many have happened for one year at a time. And I actually believe that a Left Government has done so and will do so in the future. After all, we have fully covered our bill in relation to the expectation that there is, to how many are coming here in 2015. For the time being, it seems that there will be a little less than we expected, but now we have to see when the year has passed. The fact is that if the Left were to be held responsible, there would be just as many refugees coming to Denmark, because that is not something we decide for ourselves. It is something that is determined by the conditions that are out there in the world. And the Left has put a budget where you have zero crowns. All reserves have been used. You have zero kroner if there are unforeseen expenses. That is the truth about the economic policy of the Left. Then it is true that we are financing additional expenditure in 2015 by re-prioritising something from total development aid. We have chosen to translate half of that savings into the Finance Act, and then we await the actual entry figure. That is actually a very good way to do it, and that also means that if it becomes necessary, we will make the full savings. What exactly is that, sir? Lars Løkke Rasmussen may object to this procedure? Everything is funded. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has scraped together, financed. What is the big difference in Danish policy is that we have a government that has financed things, also in the long term, and then we have an opposition that works with zero growth and does not have as much as a penny to fund any of the things that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen himself mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132256	Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen for the last lap.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132258	In other words, if you think it is a form of financing that you pretend to find the money, but will only tell about it after the elections, then you are at least repeating what you were very guilty of before the last elections, namely building up a Fatamorgana. I guess that is also the impression that remains here today. We wanted to pursue a completely different immigration policy; we did not want to make 31 concessions; we did not want to give a refugee family a salary increase of DKr 120,000. What worries me is the whole picture you build. One has been out in the children's rooms and taken in the future's pension income. The Prime Minister knows just as well as I do that if you hadn't done this little trick, where you have gone in and taxed some pension income in the future, you would have come into conflict with EU rules. You want to draw this picture of how things are done. The deficit or debt has probably tripled since the Prime Minister became Prime Minister, and if this little procurator number had not been made with the accelerated pension tax, then the debt would have been even greater; then it would have been something like eightfold since the Prime Minister came into existence. So with this little tour of force on a number of different subjects and the list is unfortunately too long for it to be reached on six questions I would like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that the government has brought forward the pension tax alone to make the household budget of the year coherent. There are some who call this generation theft I won't let it happen, but can the Prime Minister confirm that the consideration behind the future has been drawn from pension funds that would otherwise have to be taxed in the future (President:
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132445	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132447	Now, sir, he's gonna shoot. Lars Løkke Rasmussen very wide and has many different questions. We have not made 31 facilitations of foreign policy. But that's just another example of the Left using wrong numbers. I can hardly think of a single subject that we have been debating in Danish politics in recent years, when the Left has not used any wrong figures. The 31 is another in the line of wrong numbers used by the Left, and it is really a pity that it has come to that for the Left. Another thing that it is unfortunate that it has come to that for the Left is that one simply has to speak against better knowledge in these situations. I have seen all the examples that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen lists in today's newspapers. As far as a large number of them are concerned, the Left itself has been involved in the decisions where we have decided that we will resolve the problem at a slightly later stage. You're in the decisions yourself. About the other decisions, for example. The Danish Railway Fund still lacks answers to what the Left itself will do. Will taxation in the North Sea be rolled back? Will the Train Fund DK be rolled back? What will the Left actually do? As far as the rest is concerned, I just have to say to the Left that it is the Left that has a problem. It's the Left that works with zero growth. It is the Left who cannot find a single year to lay a budget without using all the reserves without opening the budgets in the municipalities. It's the Left that has a problem. So dear sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen: Left has raised a problem about some money to be paid forward. That's not the government's problem. It will end up being the Left if you win the next parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132615	Thank you, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Something happened at the beginning here that I shall make the utmost effort to never repeat myself. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen surprised me and took the floor first, although we had put him in the view that it was the North Atlantic first. I'm sorry I let myself be taken by surprise. But now we're gonna take sir. Johan Lund Olsen from IA asking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132647	Thank you, sir. President. I have some questions for the Prime Minister, who is also Minister of the Commonwealth. This concerns first and foremost seals and then the copyton on Thule. On the basis of a WTO decision of June 2014, the European Commission has put forward a new and reinforced proposal on the sale of seal skins products in the EU. This proposal must be finally adopted by mid-October of this year. I would like to highlight two very concrete and rather serious problems with the new proposal. Firstly, if the proposal goes through the same way, it will again have violent and disastrous consequences and consequences for Greenland and its people, not least for the catching industry and for the Greenland economy. The new proposal from the European Union will harm even more an already cramped prisoner profession and thus the economy of many families along the coasts of Greenland. Secondly, the whole process of the European Commission's proposals is deeply questionable. While the Commission has taken extraordinary time to prepare the new proposal, the proposal must now be rushed through the European Parliament. In addition, the European Commission needs to continue to carry out the task of, firstly, a wide-ranging information campaign across the EU in connection with the adoption of the Inuit exemption in 2009 and, secondly, to assess the impact of the Inuit exemption in Greenland. That is what remains to be done. So, on the basis of the Prime Minister's discussions in the European Union last week on the same matter, I would like to ask the Prime Minister as Minister of the Kingdom Community: Does the Prime Minister think that it is realistic to change the text proposed by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132848	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132850	Well, I think we're in complete agreement on many of these areas. There is no doubt that the sale of Greenlandic sealskins has suffered seriously, among other things. During the negative campaign that has been against seal hunting, and that is a really bad situation to be faced with. This is also why the government, together with the national government, has worked internationally to secure Greenland's interests in seal hunting and to ensure that it is seen as both a sustainable and legitimate profession. We have made it clear to the European Union that they must take up the task of eliminating the misunderstandings that exist and properly inform about this in relation to the EU's import ban. And the Inuit exemption in the import ban was introduced as far back as 2009. So it has been very difficult for Greenlandic seal catches and we are working together to eliminate some of the misunderstandings that exist and also to have a new seal regulation in the EU context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132952	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324132953	Thank you for your reply to the Prime Minister, who, as I said, is also Minister of the Kingdom Community. As the Prime Minister said, this is a sustainable catch. There are lots of seals in Greenland waters, and we take a minimal share of the seals in Greenland. So it is a very serious matter that comes on top of the Thule case. The Greenlandic economy is very challenging in these years and will be so for many, many years to come. That is why I would like to ask: will the Prime Minister help to ensure that the process of the proposal is postponed? It will be dealt with in the European Parliament next week. The process is under way, but we need more time in Greenland. We need to inform the citizens of the European Union that this is sustainable catch and that it is sustainability, which is scientifically supported. So we need more time to convince EU consumers that this is a good product.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133105	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133106	With regard to the seal regulation, last year the WTO agreed with the EU that the Inuit exemption could be allowed if certain specific conditions were met. What needs to happen now is that the EU seal regulation needs to be amended in order to meet the special conditions. There we have close Danish-Greenland cooperation to ensure that the defence of Greenlandic interests is carried into the current negotiations in the Council. And, of course, we do. I think we are in complete agreement on Greenland's interest. There have been some very negative campaigns and it is hard work to make the Greenland seal catch become something completely accepted so that you can sell your products again. So there is a great deal of work to be done, and it is really my view that Denmark and Greenland work closely together on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133203	Then it's mr. Johan Lund Olsen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133206	Thank you. I note with regret that the Prime Minister will not be working for a postponement of this matter, unfortunately, because we need more time. So to the copy tone about Thule, for something new is happening all the time in the pending Thule case. A total Inatsisartut, i.e. All Greenlandic parties in the Greenland Parliament agreed on a joint statement on Thursday 19 March, the other day, and I would like to quote from the statement: "A total Inatsisartut looks very seriously at the lost service contract at Pituffik. So this is Thulebasen. The partners work together on the forward-looking work to ensure that it does not happen again. The parties believe that the existing defence agreement complex must be examined in order to renegotiate the areas in which Greenland's interests are not sufficiently taken into account. It is our overall view that service contracts are not guaranteed enough for revenue from Pituffik to Greenland. So my question is: does the Prime Minister agree with a unified Inatsisartut that the bilateral defence agreement between Greenland-Denmark, on the one hand, and the United States, on the other hand, should be renegotiated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133314	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133329	I just have to say two more words about the treatment of the seal regulation in the EU context. Because I think that the questioner made it sound as if it is something that Denmark is not interested in, and that is simply not true. We have been involved in this matter in the discussions in the Council, we have supported a specific amendment and we have had contact with the Members of the European Parliament, as I am sure Greenland has done. So to conclude that this is something the Danish Government is not concerned with is simply wrong. It is not the case that we have the means to ensure when things are being dealt with in the European Parliament, but to conclude that this is something we are not concerned with is simply not right. I have to say that. In relation to Thule Air Base, the questioner knows very well that this is an incredibly important matter for both Denmark and Greenland, and that it is the government's clear position that Thulebasen should benefit Greenland as far as possible. That is also what has been our objective throughout. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the government, has been in contact with the United States to find the solution that is most beneficial to Greenland, and I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has announced that the negotiations are now on a constructive path. So, in this area too, I think we have actually tried to work very closely together and also to get the negotiations on a sensible track.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133452	Thank you, sir. Johan Lund Olsen. That was the last question. I should then like to welcome the members of Doris Jakobsen and Sjúrður Skaale and say that, due to business at home, they were unfortunately unable to take part in the Question Time. But now it's mr. Edmund Joensen as the Samband Party's representative asking questions to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133519	Thank you for the floor. My question today is of a security and defence policy nature. Europe's security policy and balance of power are changing. With the annexation of Crimea and the invasion of Ukraine, Russia has changed its behaviour. The OSCE, the EU and NATO have done the same. Russia plays with its muscles and even threatens with nuclear weapons. Memories from the Cold War are suddenly topical. To this we have the threat from the south, where terrorists and holy warriors threaten Western values. Confrontation, instability and insecurity set the agenda in many parts of Europe. The government has naturally been very concerned about the EU's relations with Russia, but Denmark is also an important part of the Commonwealth with responsibility for security and defence policy for the entire empire. As you know, the Faroe Islands have a huge sea area, the motorway to the Arctic. There are fisheries agreements between the Faroe Islands and Russia, and traditionally there are many Russian ships in Faroese waters. Relations with Russia have been good for many years and exports to Russia have increased. Many in the Faroe Islands, however, are concerned about Russia's new and aggressive foreign policy course. I would like to know what general considerations the Prime Minister has regarding the overall security and defence situation of the Kingdom Community in the light of Russia's changing behaviour in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133748	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133752	The questioner refers to some of the statements that have been made during the weekend also from the Russian ambassador. I note that the lager has denounced the statements that have been made, and I must say that I also think they are totally misguided and out of proportion. As far as the specific question is concerned, I have no basis to assume that the statements made by the Russian ambassador would in any way alter the threat picture concerning the Faroe Islands or Greenland for that matter. And I do not think we need to go into a more detailed discussion of those statements. Of course, we also know well in Denmark that exports to Russia are of great importance to the Faroese economy. But I cannot help saying when we discuss it that although it is the case that the Faroe Islands are not covered by Russia's ban on imports of food from, among other things, Russia. The European Union, then, is expecting both the European Union and the government not to take advantage of the situation by significantly increasing exports to Russia of the goods subject to sanctions. It is also a position that the Foreign Minister has announced to the national government. This is precisely one of the situations where you find yourself in different situations. But I am quite convinced that with the wisdom that we usually have in such matters, we can also overcome the situation that there are certain conditions that apply to Denmark and other conditions that apply to the Faroe Islands in this specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133930	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324133933	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the question of the presence of the Danish military and the vindication of sovereignty in Faroese territory. We see that Denmark, under the auspices of NATO, is helping to secure the Baltic countries' airspace against Russian behaviour at borders. We also see that Denmark's military presence in Greenland is great, while in the Faroe Islands it has drank heavily down in recent years. The question is whether the government is sufficiently aware of the need to defend the large maritime area of the Faroe Islands and the need for visible and dissuasive presence in Faroese waters and in the Faroe Islands. What does the Prime Minister think?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134039	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134041	I do not think there is any doubt as to what our responsibility is in terms of ensuring the Faroe Islands as well. That is also why we regularly have a dialogue and an exchange of information with the national leaders on foreign policy issues. This also means that when Denmark participates in an armed conflict, which is something that is naturally being discussed in the Faroe Islands, there is a debate in particular in Foreign Policy Name, where the Faroe Islands and Greenland also have fully legitimate interests in participating and making their comments and questions, and we also inform the national leaders, in connection with which we, for example, are involved. makes a military contribution in certain parts of the world. We have done so in relation to the last military contribution to ISIL. So in this way we have both an obligation to monitor the territory in the way the questioner asks, but we also have a specific obligation to inform about when Denmark engages in foreign policy matters as outlined here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134147	Sir. Edmund Joensen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134149	Thank you. Finally, I would like to know whether the Prime Minister will vouch for the Faroe Islands and the rest of the Commonwealth to be involved in the Government's security and defence policy considerations in relation to the Russian question and the new security policy situation in Europe, and that the military presence in and around the Faroe Islands is at a necessary level.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134231	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134233	In relation to the specific level, this is probably something that needs to be discussed with the Minister for Defence, and there is also ample opportunity to do so in the Danish Parliament. But there is no doubt that the government is thinking the Faroe Islands and Greenland into the general picture. This applies both to the trade policy situation we have discussed in the past and also to the security policy situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134257	The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. Then we'll go to mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as the leader of the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134306	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Council. I would certainly like to give way to the position of the North Atlantic so that they can have access to the platform. But of course also thanks to the Prime Minister for the introduction. It is obvious, of course, that the Prime Minister is in an election campaign both today and on other occasions. It is very clear, and those who could not sense it in the Prime Minister's act in this Chamber can just see out in the landscape how the campaigns adorn bus pages etc., because now there must be parliamentary elections again. It is true, as has already been mentioned, that last time it was something of 12 minutes that could solve everything and make the money go far and to everything you wanted. After the elections it was found that it did not quite go, and then it was the case that the economic policy of the then government was taken over in the broadest sense, as I believe it is in the government base. And then you drove on from there, lifting or not. Now we are faced with a new parliamentary election, and now the melody begins in a little the same way again. You try to simplify everything and present the Danes with a picture of what things are like instead of telling things the way they are. What I would like to use my Question Time for today's Question Time is as much as the Prime Minister actually said a little earlier that we are discussing on the basis of the right figures. The right figures are important, said the Prime Minister. I think so too, which is why I find it interesting to see the economic consequences of the policy which the government has now pursued in approx. Three-and-a-half years. As regards the economic consequences of asylum policy and family reunification policy, it is true, Prime Minister, that if it were now said that the government had not got through its policy and we had had the same level of asylum and family reunification, etc. as we had in 2011, when the Prime Minister became Prime Minister, we would probably have had 6.3 billion this year, in other words 2015. kr. more that we could use on Danish welfare. 6.3 billion kr. more that we could have spent on the elderly, we could have spent more in our hospitals, and we could have spent more on our police, etc. So what I really want, Prime Minister, is to ask: Can the Prime Minister confirm that today, in Denmark in 2015, we would have had 6.3 billion. kr. more to Danish welfare if the government had not got its policy through and we had maintained the level of asylum seekers and family reunification as it was when the Prime Minister took power?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134545	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134547	I don't know anything about that number, so of course I can't confirm that. But I can at least say that I am a little confused when I hear the criticism that has been voiced by Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Because it almost sounds like we have relaxed the asylum rules, and we do not. This is probably one of the big misunderstandings. I have also noticed that when the elections move closer, there are many things that are not quite right. We have heard from the Left earlier that they cannot find out the figures, and I wonder if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl completely understands. For there has been no change in asylum policy except that we have now implemented the first tightening of asylum policy for 12 years. So that means that at the time Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl had a lot to say in Danish economy and politics, it was completely the same asylum rules that applied until recently, where we then tightened them. I'm quite sure that sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl will spend a very long time going up against that picture, but the fact is that we have had the same rules on when to obtain asylum, until now, when we have actually tightened them for the first time in 12 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134651	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134653	Well, I'd like to help the PM's memory on the way. I actually thought it was a well-known figure, because I've had it up against the Prime Minister in an earlier Question Time. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, we asked the government to settle the costs of asylum and family reunification in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and expectably this year 2015. And from the response from the government to the committee on 20 January this year it appears that expenditure in 2011 was 2.9 billion. kr., and that this year there is expected to be expenditure for 9.2 billion. kr. The difference between the 9.2 billion. kr. and the 2.9 billion. kr. That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. This is, after all, an increase in the cost of the asylum system and family reunification. It is paradoxical to give the impression that a great deal has been done. What I just want to confirm is whether it is not true that this year there is an increase in expenditure of 6.3 billion. kr., compared to when the Prime Minister stepped in. If we had maintained the level from 2011, we could have spent the money for Danish welfare; for the elderly, for hospitals, for police, etc. Is it not true that we should start from the right figures, as the Prime Minister says?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134813	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134815	No, frankly, that's bullshit. For Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl takes the view that when there are many asylum seekers now, it is because of the policy we have pursued. And that's not true. So my claim will be that whether it had been Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who had been Prime Minister for the last 31⁄2 years, would have come just as many asylum seekers. And it's not that we've made the rules about that we haven't, now we've tightened them up, but because there are violent conflicts around the world that mean that there are more people on the run than there have been since World War II. That is why many people come to Denmark and seek asylum, and that is why it is quite simply wrong. I understand why, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl wants to put it that way, but that just doesn't make it right. So if sir... Lars Løkke Rasmussen had been prime minister in Denmark, there had been exactly the same rules for when to obtain asylum in Denmark. Apart from the fact that we have now changed them for the first time in 12 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134908	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134910	If you go to page 3 of the memo sent by the government itself to the Folketing, it appears from what is known as cash aid under the integration programme that expenditure here has risen from 295 million. kr. in 2011 to an expected 2,2 billion. kr. In 2015, therefore, from 295 million. kr. to 2.2 billion. kr. Is it in this that the starting aid has been abolished? After all, there are changes in the rules which also lead to increased expenditure. So is there not an increase here as a result of the deliberate abolition of the start-up aid and of all those who come to say that from day one they are covered by the cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134949	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324134951	I would like to stand by the fact that we have abolished the start-up aid and the cash aid ceiling. There's nothing new about that. But where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is so horribly wrong that he gives the impression of not just here in the Assembly Hall, but to all Danes that if only Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen had been prime minister, so there had been some quite different rules for obtaining asylum. And that is not true, because we have not changed the rules for obtaining asylum in Denmark. We've done that now. We have tightened them, and what one might wonder about is that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl keeps drawing a picture that we have let in a whole lot of people who have now been granted asylum. But we have not changed the rules for obtaining asylum in Denmark, so it would be exactly the same people who would come for exactly the same reasons as if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen had been prime minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135036	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr as head of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135043	I am pleased that the Prime Minister began with how we create more growth in Denmark. We have to say that the economic figures are moving forward. There are more people who get into employment, and I am happy for that both on behalf of the government, but also on behalf of the SF, because we have been on the goal of many things along the way. However, this also suggests that the government will bring some growth in the near future, not least with the Prime Minister's introduction. Yesterday I visited what I hope will be Denmark's first bio-aetanol plant in Måbjerg at Holstebro. After all, methanol is used as a fuel and can already be incorporated into petrol today. The EU is in the process of changing its requirements, so there is something that suggests that even more bioetanol should be incorporated. If the plant becomes a reality, it is in the construction phase about 1,250 jobs and subsequently 1,000 fixed jobs in operation, and this is probably to be noticed in West Jutland. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister can imagine that it will be part of the government's growth initiative also to look at the possibilities for example. to grant a State guarantee to the Måbjergværket. After all, it is not just something that benefits sustainable development. It is simply also about green production jobs, which is entirely in line with the government's policy to date and, at least, with what the SF has contributed to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135208	It is quite true that SF can easily take a large part of the credit for the success of the Danish economy. SF has not only been in government, but also since then helped to make decisions which have meant that things are now going better in the Danish economy. And I think SF can be pleased about that. The government and SF have for many years looked very positively at advanced fuels and have supported their development through e.g. in the EUDP funds, and I think that is very good. We have worked a lot on this in the European Union. That work has borne fruit in cash, and we now expect the European Union to adopt a mixing requirement for advanced biofuels of 0.5%. This is the result of many years of cooperation, where SF has also helped to push. I understand that there is a need for state aid or for some form of State guarantee to be able to develop the project. However, I will not stand by and promise it today. I am not going to relate to whether that is exactly what is needed, but I would like to join the SF in welcoming the fact that Denmark is in this area and hopefully will also be able to make its presence felt in the future. It is about green innovation, it is about the development of new green technologies, and I welcome the fact that Denmark is well advanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135335	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135337	I think we share that pleasure, and I also hope that the European Union will come up with an ambitious decision in the near future in relation to the inclusion requirement, but also that when we call for growth negotiations, the government will be aware that the SF will at least be demanding that we look at a state guarantee for the Måbjerg plant. It is not State aid; it is a State guarantee which is granted with the municipalities and which makes this work possible. But the government's got a lot going on right now. Recently, there has been an integration initiative, and integration negotiations have also been invited. We think this is an important agenda. We think it is good that refugees and immigrants are going to work today. We know that the best form of integration takes place in a workplace; that is where you learn the language, that is where you learn the culture, that is where you become an integral part of the labour market. At the same time, we see employers employing people from Romania, Bulgaria and Poland in increasing numbers. And we would very much like to encourage the government to look at whether it can be better to match some of the refugees and, in particular, some of the people with an immigrant background, who, unfortunately, for many, are unskilled people with some of the jobs that we are experiencing today in Eastern Europe. Among other things, it can be done. be looking at industries, but in reality also make it more targeted, so as to ensure real jobs and, of course, on proper pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135454	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135457	I can understand the idea. We have a great many Eastern and Central Europeans who come to Denmark and hold different positions, and would it not really be smarter if some of the refugees who come here could do the same jobs? I think so myself, and I hope that this will be taken into account in the municipalities. It is therefore out in the municipalities that we know where the horticulture is, where the various companies are, and can be better able to send the people who come here as refugees to those businesses, so that they get into some business practice. It does not have to be 37 hours a week, but they have to come out and be with some colleagues, be at a workplace, and I hope that some of the jobs where there are a great many Eastern and Central European employees will be some of the ones you focus on. But it is and remains something that needs to be resolved locally, and I hope, of course, that you will focus on it. I have seen that in these days people are asking why we should give the jobs of the Danes to refugees and immigrants, and that is not what I see at all. I see it as part of the general good economy that we ensure that those who are in Denmark come out and contribute to society as soon as possible and that they make some kind of contribution to the service they receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135607	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135609	Nor should you be in any doubt that if you are really to be integrated into Denmark, then the prerequisite is actually that you get a job. And since we now have 90 000 people coming from the various Eastern European countries and carrying out jobs in Denmark, it would also be obvious to give employers some responsibility to look at whether it was not possible for some immigrants to be able to enter the labour market, especially those who do not necessarily have the necessary skills to enter the full scale of the labour market. I am really glad that we are discussing how more jobs are being created in Denmark and how we can ensure that everyone also contributes. That is why I want to go over the last part, which is about the prerequisite that we all have not only the men in Denmark, but also the women can be on the labour market and that is, of course, the question of our children. The government has launched a children's package, and it was also part of the Prime Minister's New Year's speech. We have constantly allocated a great deal of money to the children's area, a total of 750 million. kr. to make better standards. But we still see that standards in today's institutions are falling, that is to say there is one adult for even more children. We would like to resolve this and we would like to resolve it in the context of the government's children's package. Will the government be open to looking at the issue of norms as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135723	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135725	I quite agree that this is absolutely crucial for families, who are busy and in many ways feel so pressured that their children are being cared for in a good and proper way. That is probably the most important thing for them. That is also why, if you look at some of the financial law negotiations we have had over the years, you will see that we have given priority to children. We have given priority to the children with only 0.5 billion. kr. And then a little more money, and now we're at 850 million. kr. a year to them. I know very well that it is not the case that it goes all over the world to norms. However, it is a small step in the right direction in order to ensure that children are better treated, and we would like to move on with that. I am not sure that our children's package will completely live up to what the SF wants. However, I hope that in the parties that have been discussing children in financial terms for many years, we will also be concerned to be able to take steps to ensure that children have a better and more enjoyable childhood with more stimulation, so that they are ready for school when it comes to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135832	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as leader of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324135837	I think it's almost a bit comical to hear Mr. Left. Lars Løkke Rasmussen try to criticize the government for not wanting to be clear about how the economy should hang together after a choice. Because with the policy of the Left there is really, really It's something about digging really deep down there and then messing around, and then it's super exciting what comes up. Because the Left seems to take pride in not wanting to tell us what their policy is. One can say that if anyone is in doubt as to whether Anders Fogh Rasmussen's contract policy is dead, then just try to understand what Mrs Inger Løjberg says when she tries to explain what the Left's cash aid ceiling is about. But I want to ask you something else. I'd like to ask you about the conditions for our children in kindergartens and crèches. Unfortunately, the conditions are far from as good as they should be in a society like the Danish one. We have seen for a number of years that standards in our institutions have deteriorated. There has simply been fewer and fewer adults to care for our children. In a survey conducted by DR, 8 out of 10 educators replied that on such an ordinary day they were alone with an average child group of 14 children. And the parents and their organizations have been trying for a long time to shout and shout in arms about this, and so have the staff of the institutions. In Politiken the other day we saw several prominent children's experts warning that developments are actually threatening the well-being of children and children's development. I think it is a problem that we need to resolve. It simply cannot be that in a rich country like Denmark we cannot afford to ensure that our children have a safe environment when they are in day care. And in the Enhedslisten we think that there is a very good solution that can stop this negative development, namely to introduce a ceiling on how many children there must be per. adult in our kindergartens and crèches, just as today we have a ceiling on how many children there must be in the classes of primary school. It is simply a question of giving children rights. So my question is: will the government and the Prime Minister be prepared to legislate on so-called minimum standards, which impose a ceiling on the number of children per year. adult in our daycare centers?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140107	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140111	First of all, I have to say a little bit about the kids. Better conditions for children are something that has united us in the financial laws we have made. This applies to the government, it applies to the SF and, of course, also to the Enhedslisten. Together with SF and Enhedslisten, we have allocated 1 billion with the 2015 Finance Act. kr. More than four years for day nurseries, kindergartens and day care, and that money must be spent precisely on increasing standards. So it is just to get it straight; as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen also mentions, that is something we have been very concerned about. I am also concerned about how our children feel and about the norms. But to promise a fixed standard is, I think, going too far, because one must also be able to keep one's budgets, one must be able to pay for it, so that is why we have gone into this together with the SF and Enhedslisten, where we have, year by year, allocated funds for better standardsing for our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140210	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140213	It is quite true that, in two stages together, we have set aside money to ensure that there are more educators, educational assistants and assistants in the institutions. The only problem is that things have not turned around. The Enhedslisten has not been to a single debate without pushing for this and, as the Prime Minister says, twice it has succeeded in disposing of money. But nothing really happened. In relation to this thing with minimum standards, I would like to say that I do not actually understand the opposition. A few months before the last parliamentary elections, the Socialists were in favour of minimum standards, as were the Radicals and the SF. And I would like to read out what we wrote together in a report to the draft law on minimum standards. We wrote, and I quote: 'There have been some glaring examples from reality of how wrong things can be when there are no rules for minimum standards. "And then we continued: "Therefore, there is a need to set a minimum standard for daily offers, just as we have class ratios for primary schools, so that we ensure that situations do not arise where the standards are indefensible. ▪ What has happened since then? I mean, it has happened that we have set aside more money, but you can see that they have not come out. On the contrary, it has continued to go worse. Why not set standards so that we guarantee our children some rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140328	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140331	I would like to stress that I have no ideological opposition to a statute. I also think it is really important that our children are surrounded by the adults who need to have a good childhood and that they are thriving and can be comforted and that they can at all be further developed so that they are ready to go to school. So I have no ideological opposition to it. Nor do I have any resistance to spending more money on our children. That is also why, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says, we have spent some more money on our children in two financial laws. But if we are to be able to promise a minimum standard now and in the future, we must have the means to do so. And I have to say that I cannot point out how we are going to get the funds for this. I understand that this is something that Enhedslisten is concerned with, and it is not something that I have any ideological opposition to. But we have not been able to find the money for such a minimum standard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140419	Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140422	Now I actually think we're gonna come a little bit. I think it is a good thing that the government and the Socialists and the Prime Minister state that they are not ideologically opposed to minimum standards. This is positive, and we are very pleased about it. Because then it's about finding the will to find the money. We could start by earmarking the many funds that we have already set aside in two rounds. We can do that tomorrow if you want. But I would like to finish by saying that I do not understand that we are not doing this immediately. We have set aside a great deal of money, but the new announcement from the Prime Minister today is that the government no longer has ideological resistance to introducing minimum standards in the day institutions. Then all we have to do is persuade the SF and the Radicals to think the same thing as before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140512	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140515	But I do not think I have ever said that I had an ideological opposition to minimum standards. I find it difficult to finance it because we only have the money we have. And that actually says a lot that, although we have set aside 1 billion. kr. It is not enough to ensure that standards are laid down at the level which I think Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen would find adequate and satisfactory. It is very expensive to have a minimum rating. However, I have to say that in relation to the difficult times we have been through, I am actually very pleased that we have jointly found the money for our children in two financial negotiations. And the last portion here was just about norms. This time, we were very concerned with settings at the extremes, where there may be special hurry. And I am actually very pleased that 1 billion has been made available. kr. over 4 years. Again a good example of what we can do when we work together on things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140610	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen as leader of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140622	The government has put forward some proposals for better integration, and if you look at the national objectives of integration, you have to say that it is actually a little shocking reading. The government's goals are pretty unambitious, I guess. It itself states that structural employment must increase by 3.5%. of non-western immigrants and descendants, and that is 3.5%. in relation to 2011, so that the employment rate reaches 54 per cent. In 2020 54 per cent. in employment rates. And since it's only 3.5%. higher, that is, we must currently be about 50-51 per cent. Can the Prime Minister try to explain why we are so incredibly poor at integrating non-western immigrants into our labour market? Perhaps we are one of the worst countries in the world for this in relation to our overall employment rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140719	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140722	I therefore agree that, over the last many, many years, we have not been able to get people with a foreign background into the labour market. When we look at the figures, we see that they speak their own clear language: there is an over-representation of people with a foreign background who are outside the labour market and that is not good enough. We must then also note that not so much of what has been done in the past has helped. For many years you had a small cash benefit, you had a start-up help and that kind of thing, and it has not contributed very much. So we must note that the joint effort over the past 20 years has not been impressive. That is also why we now want to reschedule the integration programme, so that there is more focus on getting out quickly and getting in touch with the labour market rather than spending too much time learning Danish. It is not because I think it is bad to learn Danish, but perhaps it might be a good idea to do so while at work. I was so lucky that I was allowed to go to Bilka in Ishøj at the beginning of the year.That was very much mentioned and they gave me just some good examples that you can be on the labour market some of the time and go to language school other parts of the time, which has also provided inspiration for this integration paper. So, yes, we must ensure that the people who come here are not made clients, but that they enter the Danish labour market as soon as possible, and that is basically what our new presentation about more immigrants in work is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140852	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140855	But what I asked for was some indication of why we are so bad at it, and I asked if it really is satisfactory. I mean, this is the overall government offer at this time, and the overall results are estimated by the government itself to be lifting itself from an employment rate of just 51 per cent. 54 per cent. Is that what is called an ambitious plan by the government? What do you think it's gonna take to really move this number? For such a small increase from 51.5 to 54 percent. After all, by 2020, it is almost within a statistical margin of uncertainty that is barely manageable. It is still incredibly bad integration, and we have probably heard everything the government has at this time. There must be another reason why it's so poor, and that's what I'm asking. Can the Prime Minister explain what the cause is, and does the Prime Minister think it is satisfactory with 54 per cent??
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140956	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324140959	I actually think I've made my bid. I do not think the way we have dealt with these challenges over the past many, many years is satisfactory. For then we should have had more with foreign backgrounds that were in the labour market and could take care of themselves. After all, I started the year by giving a New Year's speech where I said that to the people who come here now as refugees, we should not make the mistakes of the past. They should not become clients, but rather they should quickly enter the labour market. Some of what we are doing is what we have put forward now, when we are changing the integration programme and ensuring that, instead of getting a lot of Danish teaching at the beginning, you get to work quickly. You don't have to walk around without having something to do for more than 4 weeks, and instead of avoiding activation or being outside activation, you have to do something. So these are some of the answers. But that's not all the answers. After all, some of the answers are also in our primary school reform, which will ensure that more children are included. Some of the answers are in our cash benefits reform, where we include, among other things: I'm gonna turn the kids in the door. Some of the answers are in our early retirement reform. So our many reforms also aim to make more people with an immigrant background an active part of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141112	Sir. Andersen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141114	But the problem is that these things are included in the figures from the government itself, where overall it is lifted from approx. 51.5% 54 per cent. in employment rates. I can try to make some offers when the Prime Minister doesn't want to, why we're so bad at it, and you can actually look at England to see what works. In England, taxes have been significantly lowered at the bottom and raised the bottom for when to start paying taxes, and a job boom has been created in England. Yes, jobs have also been found in the public sector which could be dispensed with, but, on the other hand, there have been up to four times as many jobs in the private sector. In Denmark, we give priority to having controllers employed in the public sector to check cinnamon snails. We spend money on that, and that's why it's impossible for us to find money to lighten the tax significantly at the bottom, so there's a demand for this labor. That is the problem, Prime Minister: we insist that cinnamon controllers are an expression of a public service which we cannot do without. We need to get those things so that we get the money free to lower taxes so that we can really integrate people into the labour market because there are some jobs that are pulling them out. I think the Prime Minister should start pointing that way instead of being satisfied with 54 per cent. in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141225	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141227	I have noted the political programme of the Liberal Alliance, which will mean saying goodbye to one in ten in the public sector. I think it is fair enough that you can have those opinions. But I do not think it is fair enough to try to deceive the Danes that if you remove one in ten nurses, police officers, or whatever it may be, you will have the same service as you do today. That's what I don't think is fair. I think it is fair to want a smaller welfare society, but admit to the citizens that it means worse service. Frankly, I have to say that I think it is far-fetched to bring cinnamon inspectors in this context when we are talking about not just a few in the public sector, but one in ten public sector employees. It is a lot of people, and anyone can say that himself will influence the level of service. It compares with the British labour market. Are the minimum wages that people have in Britain that they are concerned with and would like to see from the Liberal Alliance? Then it is a completely different social model that you are concerned with, and it is very, very far from the Denmark we know. So that is not what the government is fighting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141335	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141344	After all, we have seen that the Prime Minister has gone into an election campaign, and now all we need is the push on the button. Many of us are looking forward to it. We can then understand from the latest campaigns that 30,000 more immigrants are going to work. However, you suggest something to the citizens when you write that 30,000 people are going to work, because there are no permanent jobs. These are some artificial aid schemes, in which, among other things, they include: doing some undefined utility jobs and some company internships for 3 months at a time. After all, it is naive to think that because you send immigrants out for three months in a job with wage subsidies or in a useful job, they will be integrated. Not many people believe that, and instead the government should have spent some of that money on creating permanent jobs for people, regardless of their skin color and origin. If you think back, you can see that this is not the first time that the government has resorted to artificial subsidies. Because we saw exactly the same thing with the government's so-called emergency package, which was soon baptized caput package because it did not work. And it was the one who was supposed to help thousands of Danes to work. What is it that makes the Prime Minister think that exactly the same number of artificial aid schemes that have failed once should work in this instance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141510	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141512	Couldn't Mrs Mai Mercado just tell me exactly where it says that 30,000 jobs are to be created for 30,000 immigrants? Couldn't she just tell me where it's in any of our publications? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141526	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141530	It must be strange to experience for the Danes who really want a job, that right now artificial support schemes are being made with company practices and useful jobs, so that refugees and immigrants are sent in front of Danes in line. There are, among other things: Bettina, 25 years old from Odense, who feels so run over and feels so out of the labour market, and I have to say that the prospects for such a young woman are gloomy. Then I must also add that it is wrong for me when the Prime Minister and the government are making an integration project based on labour market policy. When you sit and read it through, you think: Where are the Danish values, the Danish citizenship, the Danish participation? It says a tiny bit about this, but it is still possible to live in a parallel society where you do not participate at all and are not part of Danish society at all, and where you do not get Danishness under your skin. And then it's not enough with network families and a pious desire that more people start going a little more to scouts as it says. That is not enough when we can see that there is a housing association in Nivå, which among other things. has received a chairman who is active in Hizb ut-Tahrir. I simply do not understand how the Prime Minister can approve. So I would just like to ask: why does the Prime Minister not see that it is also necessary in an integration project to launch anything other than soft initiatives and that we must take a hard stand against parallel societies and ghettos? After all, this is an integration issue we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141657	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141700	I note that Mrs Mai Mercado has made a very big mistake in claiming that we have to find 30,000 jobs for Syrian asylum seekers. That is simply not true. We have talked about 30.000 courses, and that is something other than what Mrs Mai Mercado is talking about. I also note that although Mrs Mai Mercado quotes me for saying so, it is not true and she is not able to reproduce it here today. It's a pretty big mistake. But since we are talking so seriously about the many refugees who are coming now and there are many refugees, because there is war in the world, it really surprises me that one can disagree. We propose that the integration programme be amended in such a way that, instead of having a lot of language courses, the labour market is quickly introduced into some business-oriented processes. It can be one way or another. We are also abandoning the demand for the 37 hours because it has simply been too difficult for the municipalities and because the most important thing for the individual who is here is to get out and get in touch with the labour market. We do not want to turn people into clients, and that is why they need to get out and do something for what they get from society as soon as possible. Where exactly in those points is it that the Conservative People's Party may disagree? Do you have to pay for your services? That we should quickly get out and in contact with the labour market? That there are demands on a person from society? Where is it that the Conservatives can disagree on precisely those points?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141829	Mrs. Mai Mercado, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141833	Now I mentioned 25-year-old Bettina from Odense, who is now feeling so much put in the back of the queue, just as the emergency job package tried to put others in the front line; that was the long-term unemployed at the expense of the newly educated. It did not succeed because the whole scheme was a thunderous failure. Now you make a new scheme where we can see that Danes who want to go out and have work feel so run over because you now want to award the municipalities a prize for these courses, which should lead to permanent work, which nobody believes in. I believe that most people are aware of the fact that the integration issue presented by the Prime Minister is not close enough, and we have major problems with integration and asylum policy. How does the Prime Minister think that the new social democratic promise of more demands on immigrants and asylum restrictions, which are also on these posters, is linked to the fact that we are associated with, among other things, the European Union. The Enhedslisten and Liberal Alliance have both relaxed the affiliation requirement, the 28-year rule, the employment requirement, the Danish requirement and the self-reliance requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141942	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324141945	Mrs Mai Mercado is asking many questions, and it would actually have dressed Mrs Mai Mercado to admit the rather big mistake she made at the beginning of the question. Because I was blamed for wanting to get 30,000 jobs, and we haven't written that anywhere. Mrs Mai Mercado has misunderstood it quite strongly, but will not admit it. Another thing is whether it will be the case that, because some refugees are going into a business-oriented process of activation, it crowds out other people who have a job. I find it very difficult to see why it should be that way. What, by the way, is the alternative? I would like to ask the Conservatives and Mrs Mai Mercado. Is it that the new refugees coming to Denmark should be made clients and should not do anything and sit at home in the apartments rather than contribute to society? Once again, I find it very, very difficult to understand that the Conservatives can be negative about the fact that we do not want one to develop into a client when one comes to Denmark, but that one has to work or contribute to the performance that one gets and that one has to quickly enter a business-related internship or another working community. I find it very difficult to see how the Conservative People's Party can be against it, and I am very excited about what it will be like when it comes here in the Folketing, i.e. whether the Conservatives will really maintain their opposition to us now making new demands on the people who come here and that we therefore have rights, but certainly also requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142109	That concludes the question. Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. Then there's a premiere, and that's Mr. Kim. Uffe Elbæk as party leader for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142120	Thank you. Obviously, I'm glad to be standing here now and officially representing the alternative in this conversation. I have, of course, prepared some questions, but I have also asked the Danes out there through the social media what they wanted to ask of good questions to the Prime Minister, and there were a lot of questions coming up. It was about everything from the competitive state, the social democracy's new campaign and to the, of course, crucial question of when the elections will come. The last question will probably not be answered here. I will start somewhere else: of course, all parties have a position on what are the major and absolutely crucial challenges that we face as a society. In the alternative, we have identified three: the climate crisis, what we call the empathy crisis, which is about our ability to show solidarity and empathy and put ourselves in someone else's place, and then the system crisis, which is, of course, about how the market itself cannot solve the challenges we face here, and so far the public sector cannot do that alone, and neither can the volunteers, so how do we think about new cooperation relations and new cooperation models? Our bottom line is that there must be positive figures on both the economic bottom line, but also on the environmental and the social. So my question to the Prime Minister is actually very fundamental: what does the Prime Minister think are the crucial challenges that Denmark faces?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142245	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142248	It is a big question, but I also think it is an important question: what are the challenges we are facing? I also hope that in the coming years we will be able to develop Denmark in a sustainable way. And by sustainability I mean economic sustainability, where the money should fit and we do not give a huge bill for the next generations. It must be socially sustainable, and that means that we still have to be an entire society in which we look after each other and also those who fall through. We're gonna need a fine masked safety net. And, of course, we also need environmental sustainability in our society. These are big words, but when you are asked what you really want for our society, it is basically that we can retain what is peculiar to Denmark. Denmark is a very special country where we have developed a very strong community. And it is my wish that we can develop the Denmark we have and ensure that it is also economically, socially and greenly sustainable in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142341	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142344	I'm so glad to hear that. Then you can always go critically to it and ask whether environmental policy is as sustainable as we would like it to be. It is a discussion in itself, and I am not going to raise it right now, but it is, of course, something quite fundamental for some of it, which I will also discuss afterwards. There has been some good news this week, and the Prime Minister has also mentioned this, namely that the economic figures are beginning to look more positive. The greatest positive news for me was actually the fall in youth unemployment, where Denmark has a positive record. We should all be really, really happy about that. What worries me and the alternative is, of course, that if we now see a period of economic growth ahead of us, can we hope that there will be a risk that we will actually end up in two dead ends? One is that we start using more of what is called the scarce resources of the planet, so that when people get more money between their hands, we start using them in a non-intentional way that will actually tip the globe off the edge. The second is almost even more fundamental: whether economic growth in the long term is jobless growth. What is, of course, the question from me is how the Prime Minister and the Government will ensure that there are still positive figures, not only in the economic accounts, but also in the environmental and social aspects.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142515	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142518	After all, it is difficult to support growth and at the same time want to have greener development and social development. It would be easier to choose one thing and say: I am only in favour of growth and I do not care about green development or social sustainable development. What is difficult, and what is art, is to work on all three things at one and the same time. I actually think the government does. We can always be blamed for not going fast enough, but that is our ambition. We want a sustainable society. That is basically what lies in my being so concerned that we must be able to preserve the Denmark we know and that we must develop it further. That is why we need economic growth, because growth is also a prerequisite for our having a strong welfare society. That also means that we all have to work a lot, and it may well be, sir. Uffe Elbæk and I are going to have a little disagreement there. But we must have economic growth so that we can also develop socially and in the green area, which both of us are concerned with. Specifically in relation to this, whether we are getting jobless growth: I find that hard to conclude, since during the growth we have now had over the last six quarters, there has actually been a good number of jobs created in relation to the growth we can demonstrate in concrete terms. So it actually turns out that we also get jobs as we get more growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142640	Now there are two minutes left of Question Time, so I would ask that the talks that are under way be postponed at least two minutes. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142648	The Prime Minister emphasizes that there is no room for experimentation. In fact, I think it is very important that we try to figure out how to develop, and we cannot do that without experimenting. But what I really want to ask you is that, paradoxically, we find that many of the people who are actually at work are getting stressed because they are running so fast. On the other hand, we have a large group of unemployed people who are also under stress because they are excluded from the labour market. The alternative has now gone out with a proposal to reduce the working week to 30 hours over a 10-year period, and the ambition behind it is, of course, that we share the work that exists between us and thus create a much better balance between work and family life. So does the Prime Minister think it is a good idea in the long term to reduce working hours and thus also to create a better balance between work and family life?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142749	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142752	I am afraid that if we all were to reduce our working hours in general, we would also become poorer as a society. We would have less prosperity and less welfare to distribute to each other and hence less social security. So I am afraid that, although it may sound nice to work 30 hours a week, it will make our society poorer and less prosperous, thereby creating less welfare and less opportunity to look after those who fall through the safety net of society. So it is an idea that I do not think is feasible if you are still going to be able to afford a strong welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142832	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. That brings us to the end of the extended Question Time. I cannot help asking once and for all that, when we have this, that the end of the Question Time coincides with the start of the votes, that we come into the Chamber silently, so that we can give everyone who takes part in the Question Time equal opportunities to be heard. So I'm gonna ask you to practice that here in the final sprint of the assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142909	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324142935	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143008	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 105 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF (by mistake), ALT and SP), against 6 (LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143042	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143103	I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 103 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and SP), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143133	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143152	I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 96 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, KF and SP), against 8 (EL), abstention 6 (LA and ALT). The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143222	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143241	I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 5 (LA), against voting 57 (S, RV, SF and EL), abstention 48 (V, DF, KF, ALT and SP). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143312	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143333	I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 48 (V, DF, KF and SP), against voting 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstention 5 (LA). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143403	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143426	I think I would like to add a few words to this motion for a resolution, which is, of course, about creating a special mortgage credit institution for our outermost regions. In fact, when we in the SF have made that proposal, it is because this is an equality agenda for us. We believe that all citizens in Denmark should have access to good, cheap mortgages, and unfortunately in these years it showed a hearing in the Rural Committee also, unfortunately, that there are some places where there are major challenges. It is a huge bomb under the confidence that you can sell your home, the confidence that you can get a loan if you want to expand your business and create more jobs. That is why the SF has tabled this motion for a resolution which we expect will shortly be voted down. I think it is very good that a committee has been set up on the Rural Committee, which is looking at some things. I'm afraid I just don't think it's gonna solve this challenge. It is not a challenge that market forces solve on their own. There is simply no place where these housing and businesses will be financed in the outermost regions. The Committee shall, inter alia: Look at the amount of time and availability, and that is also fine; I just don't think it's rocking anything in the big picture. For those who have to give the loans, look around. And if they can see that the last bus has left, the neighbor's house is a dilapidated rowing and the grocery store is closed, then you take stock of whether this is an investment you want to make and then the answer becomes a no. We know from Norway that there are well-functioning models on which money can be made and which ensure that you have a reasonably reasonable interest rate that is affordable, and therefore there is a model that we could look at. The pity is that this committee is not allowed to decide either on state funding or on State guarantees. We in the SF think that it is a self-target in this debate that you cannot look at those schemes. We think it is a political decision to have loans available in the outermost regions, and we regret, as I said, that this proposal does not materialise. But we also hope that time will ripen. We believe that the debate is coming again, because market forces are not going to solve this by themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143700	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143708	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 17 (EL, SF and ALT), against 93 (S, V, DF, RV, LA, KF and SP), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143746	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143817	Amendments to L 100 shall be put to the vote first. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-25, elected by a majority? These amendments have been adopted. Amendments to L 105 shall then be put to the vote. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-17, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance)? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143909	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143923	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143939	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324143955	Thank you. When you write a will, you dispose of your fortune after you're dead. It has been considered important for many years that, in this situation, we can fully understand what we are doing. Therefore, there are rules in Articles 63 and 64 of the succession law that say that a will, in order for it to be validly established, must be created either for two witnesses or for a notary. What we are discussing today has nothing to do with wills. It has something to do with future powers, but it's kind of like it. For where a will has effect after one is dead, the power of the future will have effect before one dies. That means creating the power of the future today, for example, and it will also have an effect from the moment one becomes demented or comes into a similar situation and end its effect when one is dead. There is a very serious slappus in this proposal to which I have to draw everyone's attention, and it is that a future power can be created by one person. There is no control whatsoever over it, no witnesses are required, no notary or similar is required. And that involves the risk of a legally smart person passing by with someone who may be setting up a power of the future, or convinces him that he must create a power of the future, and that person will then put himself in office as a future executive. This is something we would never accept in the context of inheritance law, but we are obviously in the process of accepting it, if we vote against the Left's proposal, in relation to the powers of the future. The amendment tabled by the Left calls for exactly the same safety requirements, that is to say. two witnesses or a notary for a future mandate to be validly established. In my view, it is dangerous for legal certainty to do something else, so I would recommend that we vote in favour. And if you are in complete doubt, you could try to look at what the Lawyer's Council and Danske Lawyers write, or you could look at the legal situation in Norway and Finland and in the way that the legal situation is going to stay in Sweden. It is a serious legal problem that we are creating if a person without any kind of monitoring of the mental state of the person concerned can be tempted to write a mandate for the future and perhaps even put a slightly dubious person who has lured him into it as an agent. I would recommend that we vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Left, so that we get the demands we know from Articles 63 and 64 of the succession law into the rules for future powers. If we vote against the proposal, I would ask the Committee on Legal Affairs to refer it back to the Committee on Legal Affairs for further consideration between the second and third readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324144249	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324144256	Thank you. It is, of course, a welcome proposal that we are discussing here today. It is a proposal that has long been a desire of organisations that help people suffering from diseases that reduce them. This means that you can draw a power of the future before you are reduced. I have gone to the platform because we need to get the Minutes under control in relation to the amendment and the positions on the amendment that are set out in the committee report. That is why I must inform you that the governing parties support the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party to the draft law on amending the health law we are discussing here. On the other hand, the governing parties cannot support the amendment tabled by the Left to L 93, which is why the position on this amendment remains the same as in the committee report.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324144349	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324144359	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, LA and KF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (V, DF, LA, KF and SP), against 56 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 submitted and joined by the same minorities, rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 3-6 of a minority (DF), now joined by a majority (V, S, RV, EL, LA and KF)? They are adopted. The rapporteur of the Left indicated that if his amendments were rejected, he wanted referral back to committee he nods and I would suggest that this would be the case. The proposal is therefore referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324144527	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324144538	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. It has also been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324144603	The debate is open and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Beazley. Lars Christian Lilleholt. And then I'm gonna have to ask anyone who wants to talk to me to go outside. Maybe it could be a little faster. Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324144640	In our view, the draft law, L 163, which we are about to deal with first, is a very, very comprehensive legislative proposal. And one might also wonder why the bill has not been split up so that we could have dealt with some of these rather large and rather serious cases separately. On the other hand, everything we are discussing today is part of energy agreements and subsequent agreements among the parties here in the Danish Parliament who are behind the energy agreement. Perhaps the most important point of the draft law is the issue of dealing with electricity from renewable energy sources, and here the government and the Danish Parliament are challenged by the European Commission's questioning the way in which we deal with the PSO support for electricity from renewable energy installations, including from solar installations. After all, the proposal before us has little change. From 2016 we avoid providing support for installations that are more than 500 kWh. One must seek before one can establish and receive support for the flow from a renewable solar power plant. It is quite reasonable, just as it makes sense, that the Minister should be required to keep an eye on price developments, including whether the aid is reasonable. The bill is also around Horns Rev 3, and here we can be pleased that you got a really good price on the power from the plant, it came down to 78 cents. This is a level that we think is quite reasonable and over a 10-year period we will then save more than 2 billion. kr., compared to what we had feared the support for the plant would come up on. Finally, the draft law deals with the abolition of the three-tier tariff, which is the result of the fact that the European Commission is also looking at Denmark and the way in which we deal with aid for electricity from decentralised installations. Here, too, we are challenged. We are also challenged in relation to the price of district heating from the plants forward-looking, both in connection with the abolition of the three-stage tariff, but also when what is called the basic amount expires in 2018. It is therefore quite reasonable for us in the circle of energy reconciliation parties to agree to sit down and analyse what opportunities there are to ensure that the sensible and environmentally friendly district heating also has a place in the forward-looking energy policy and that we will not send unnecessary large bills to district heating consumers. An additional element of the bill here is the question of how the large central CHP plants can switch from coal to biomass, and how it is handled that among other things. gardeners and other companies receiving heat from the large decentralised cogeneration plants do not come into serious economic trouble when the plants are switched from coal to biomass. Including the issue of the settlement of the heat received by the undertakings from the plants and the possibility that they may receive or receive plant aid, but also operating aid. Overall, this is a legislative proposal that we can support immediately. Of course, we must now proceed with the committee procedure, where it will also be necessary for us to have a thorough debate on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324145040	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324145047	Thank you. I am fully in line with the rapporteur of the Left in that this is at least a very, very comprehensive legislative proposal. You could say it's such a bag of mixed candy. There are also quite a few of these candy that are relatively technical, and therefore it may be a little difficult to have a meaningful debate about it here in Parliament. But it is also true what Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt said that it is an expression of the fact that it is built on broad agreements and that it is an expression of how we handle and implement our energy agreements. It is true that this has also been a matter of dealing with clarifications and new guidelines and other things, in terms of how we can pay out the support for our renewable energy and secure it, while at the same time being EU-sustainable. We are not at the end of that discussion, it may be said. However, we have made some steps that will enable us to continue working on this, while finding the right solution to how to secure support for our renewable energy in the future, while at the same time doing so in a way that is in line with EU rules. It is true, as has also been mentioned, that the three-tier tariff will lapse, and this does not, in the first place, present the great challenge, because there is also a basic amount. Most people have already changed to the basic amount today, and it will also be an opportunity for those who are no longer able to receive the three-tier tariff. But it is also true, as the rapporteur from the Left has already said, that we need to discuss the future of small cogeneration plants. So what happens when we no longer have a basic amount? We have given each other a hand over the fact that this is a talk we are taking as soon as we have a better basis for decision on the back of the tax and subsidy analysis that is on the way. I would also like to put an extra blow to the Horns Rev, which we are formalising with today's bill. We've got a bid, which means the price is 77 cents per. kWh. It is, in fact, a price of 2.2 billion. kr. in the amount we expected just three years ago when we made the energy agreement. I think this is a very good example of how industry has skillfully brought prices down by innovation. This is an example of how, in a tendering process such as the one that has been carried out, a dialogue has been possible which, overall, has provided us with better and cheaper green energy, and I think it is good for the future, also in terms of wind at sea. This is, of course, an important part of our discussions on the energy supply of the future. That is why I am pleased that we have both received such a good offer and that there was broad support among the conciliation parties to strike at the new agreement on the Horns Rev.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324145350	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324145358	The two previous rapporteurs have already mentioned that the draft law here, L 163, contains a fairly wide range of different issues in the field of energy. But the common name may well be that in all cases it is small changes that have been agreed within the circle that we call the energy reconciliation circle and which, of course, include almost all the parties of the Folketing. The largest lump of changes is a consequence of the European Commission's rejection of the Danish PSO system. After all, the PRS support scheme that we in Denmark have agreed and adopted in the Danish Parliament has been overruled by the European Commission. They have been so generous, you might say, on the part of the European Union that they have allowed us to continue with the scheme for two years under certain conditions. And these are some of the conditions that we are phasing into legislation here, for example. the energy installations shall have a power of not more than 500 kW and shall only be eligible for aid for installations which have been applied for. It should in itself be quite natural that this is the way it is. There are also several other amendments to the existing legislation, and as the previous rapporteurs have already mentioned, there is also the question of Horns Rev 3, which has been put out to tender and where we have received a price of 77 cents per year. kWh. It's a relatively cheap price compared to what else you've seen. But here it is the implementation of the settlement rules that is incorporated into the legislation. Of course, I have to say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill here, because these are things that we ourselves have helped to agree and stand by. However, I would also like to say that we think it is really a pity that the legislation that we have agreed between the parties of the Danish Parliament and adopted here on the PSO scheme, which a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament has adopted, is being overruled by the EU system as the great overjudge. They say you must not, and you must make a new arrangement. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, and I think that we are seeing every day examples of silly interference by the EU system. We saw that yesterday with the cinnamon patrols out there in the bakeries, but now it is our support for solar cells and for household windmills that have been overruled. And it is unsatisfactory that the EU is so much involved in Danish affairs. But in the Danish People's Party we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324145647	Thank you. Then it is the radical rapporteur, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324145654	The law here is a so-called collective law in which various agreements in the energy society are implemented. The law means that, from 1 January, household wind turbines and solar installations must be set up only if they have been approved. Unfortunately, we had to wait too long for the EU's approval of support for the two forms of renewable energy. It was not fair to the people who had to wait and wait. Therefore, it is a good idea to demand that the aid has been obtained before starting to build these plants. The Act also allows combined heat and power plants that supply district heating for process purposes to receive both subsidies for conversion to renewable energy and for operation afterwards. This helps to drive the green transition forward. The law also abolishes the so-called three-stage tariff; it has not been shown to cause the decentralised cogeneration plants to produce electricity when necessary, so it is therefore a good idea to abolish it. Instead, the grant goes to the so-called basic amount, which the works also receive. Last but not least, the law includes the price of support for the Horns Rev 3 offshore wind farm off Esbjerg. Amount of the subsidy per year kilowatt-hour becomes 77 cents, making it the cheapest offshore wind farm in Europe. It is very gratifying to see that the technologies are evolving and becoming cheaper. The Radical Left believes that a future without coal and oil is worth the price, but yet it is also nice when the price falls, as we have seen with this offshore wind farm. Together, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324145847	Thank you. Then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324145855	Thank you. The SF also supports the proposal. First a few remarks about Horns Rev 3, which others have also mentioned. It was a surprise, but really a pleasant surprise when they came in, and we could see that we were so far down in price on wind turbine currents from the North Sea. In addition to stressing what the Radical Left rapporteur said earlier that technology is evolving and that it leads to lower and lower prices, I would also like to stress that the method of tendering has clearly helped us to get the lower price. It's nice to see in practice that some of what I have worked for myself is a more flexible procurement practice in this country, negotiating models and that kind of thing, and so of course that we politically made sure that there was a relatively long period of time to complete it on • has helped to get us this huge dive, you might say, from 105 cents on Anholt to 77 cents in Horns Rev 3. I do not think we can automatically say that next time we will continue that curve down at exactly the same steep rate. But we can say that it helps to prove that the more adult our wind turbine industry becomes in the world, the cheaper it will be to implement it, and that is really the whole idea behind the strong determination in Danish energy policy. The second thing I want to say, as others have said, is that the proposal is about adapting our arrangements so that they fit in with EU rules, and we are in the difficult area of the fact that the European Union is actually in a paradigm shift in the support system, and that is kind of what we have been squeezed of. That is why it can be said that some of the previous decisions were based on what was used to be done in the European Union, and then new state aid rules have come into being which we have then been somewhat sqeezed by in the process here. Therefore, this proposal looks like a patchy solution, and that is what it is, you might say, a patchy solution to something that has been rejected. The last thing I have to say is what others have also said about the abolition of the three-tier tariff and the transition to basic amounts. However, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, I would like to emphasise that for those who are now listening to it and those who are working with it here in the district heating sector, it is probably a little important that we give a promise that we will look at 2018 when the basic amount disappears. For that is what they are all waiting for: when will we find a solution here? And we have to find it as soon as possible, I think, when we know the tax and subsidy analysis that we have been promised for months. The Minister may then, in this debate, reveal exactly what date it is coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324150227	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324150233	As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Per Clausen, cannot be present, I should just like to say briefly that the Enhedslisten can support the proposal. We're in the deal that's behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324150244	Thank you. Then it's Liberal Alliance Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324150252	Thank you. The aim of the draft law we are considering here is to ensure that the VE Act meets new guidelines from the European Commission pursuant to certain decisions, such as: implies that Energinet.dk commits price increases for electricity, wind and sun prior to the start of the project. In addition, there are a number of other changes to the 61-page bill for example that power plants can now also receive support when converting to biomass, while other projects can get a little less than provided, namely the coastal wind turbines. The many provisions back and forth cover up the fact that when you have to repair a patchwork rug consisting of almost a swamp of opposing subsidies and charges, you will have a lot of new problems which you will have to change again in months or years. This will be an ongoing process, I guess, and the planned energy system is constantly being obtained by new technologies, new prices and new opportunities that the planned economy could not foresee. The best example is the technology in the solar field. Bottomline in all this is that in 2014 we spent 7.7 billion. kr. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and whether it is prepared to accept them. Regardless of the EU's interference here and there and a stop and go legislation from in here, as we have seen so many times, we do not believe that this subsidy and tax regime is good for anyone except perhaps those who, of course, benefit from the subsidies. The upcoming wind farms, Horns Rev 3 and Kriegers Flak, will probably come close to another 3 billion, based on the experience we have gained so far. kr. in the PRS tax, by which we choose to spend 10 billion. kr., equivalent to 2-3 super hospitals, because we have to be able to say to other countries: See now how high a wind share we have in our energy system. We cannot store it yet and must therefore sell it for a candy when it blows too much, just as we have to pay a farm for the power plants, which have nothing to do but have to be ready when it does not blow. But we have to get to the high percentage that we keep bouncing off in here. In this Parliament we are aiming for a certain figure, at what cost it will, even if there is no environmental impact, just as when we discussed the sustainability of biofuels last week. And if you go ahead with this billion-dollar investment, we think it is quite crucial that it is really sustainability too. The Liberal Alliance has chosen to stand outside this agreement. We say no and do not participate in this discussion, and although this bill may look peaceful, as it does on the surface, we do not contribute to anything that in this way supports the very powerful wind expansion that sends our companies to count or, at best, out of the country. Last Thursday we had Fyns Gartneri in the Energy Committee, and they're just millimeter away from turning the key around precisely because of the PRS tax. No, let's take a break with all this operating aid until the technology is ripe so we don't waste our citizens' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324150640	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324150648	Thank you, sir. President. I expect the Conservative People's Party to support this bill. Now, of course, we have to have it in committee and have it looked at in the seams, but at the overall level it seems reasonable. It's a bill that brings together a wide range of different actions in the same time round means bill in this context and here we then relate to how we choose to support the green change. We think this is sensible and a good agenda. We not only make that as a country in the form of export adventures, but that is also what makes us have clean air, clean water and a better environment, and that we deliver a planet to the next generation that is in a slightly better constitution than when we took it over ourselves. The proposal is described as a patchwork blanket and a patchwork law, and it is, of course, when you have a charging system like ours. However, it is very reasonable that solar cells and household wind turbines will now receive advance commitments if they have received commitments from Energinet.dk that is the condition for obtaining this price premium. With regard to the part of what is about cogeneration plants that supply district heating and that have converted to biomass, it is now possible for them to obtain plant and operating aid. We support that too. And then there are settlement terms and price increases for offshore wind farms, here Horns Rev 3, which is situated out of Esbjerg. It is a fairy tale for the west coast of the Esbjerg area, which is not only strong in offshore, i.e. oil and gas, but certainly also in offshore wind farms. We are about to build them, and the industry has delivered them at a surprisingly good price, fortunately, that is 77 cents per annum. kWh, and when you compare with what we've given in the past, this is billions of dollars cheaper. So that is also a good agenda. We appreciate that. Overall, we support this bill, but we look forward to getting into depth with it during the committee procedure, so far the green light.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324150853	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324150903	Thank you. Thank you for the contributions from all the rapporteurs. I agree with the rapporteurs that we are talking about mixed technical candy, what some of them look like; you look like a bag of screws, nuts and transistors. However, as has been shown, the bill must help ensure that Denmark complies with the terms of the European Commission's two decisions of October 2014 on aid for electricity from solar installations, household wind turbines and certain other installations using renewable energy sources. In the light of the two Commission decisions of October 2014, the draft law proposes the introduction of a new application procedure for aid schemes, inter alia: solar PV installations and household wind turbines, and from 1 January 2016, a price surcharge from Energinet.dk must then be offered before a project can start. The draft law must help to ensure and demonstrate that the beneficiaries have an incentive to receive price increases. At the same time, it is proposed that from 1 January 2016 only aid may be granted to solar installations and certain other renewable energy installations with an installed power of less than 500 kW. The draft law also provides for an authorisation to lay down rules for Energinet.dk to determine production costs in such a way that an assessment can be made on a regular basis as to whether an aid scheme can lead to overcompensation. In addition to the adjustment of aid schemes for, inter alia: PV installations and household wind turbines include a number of other proposals as has been noted. The draft law therefore proposes that the aid scheme for offshore wind turbines, which is part of experimental projects, should be limited to 2016 instead of 2019 onwards. And the reason is that the European Commission has only approved the aid scheme up to and including 2016 and that it is considered that the scheme will not be approved by the European Commission after 2016 in its current form. The RE to the process scheme is proposed to be modified in such a way that cogeneration plants providing district heating for process purposes can receive both investment grants for conversion from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources and operating aid in the form of price surcharges for the production of electricity based on biomass. This proposal retains the necessary incentive for cogeneration plants to convert from fossil fuels to renewable energy, while at the same time lifting the energy agreement to compensate process heat customers for the price increase resulting from the conversion is met, to the extent possible, within the framework of the EU State aid rules. In addition, the draft law contains a proposal to abolish the system of FITs for electricity produced in certain decentralised cogeneration plants, and that is the three-stage tariff. The three-stage tariff is socio-economicly inadequate because it does not provide incentives for decentralised cogeneration plants to produce electricity when the electricity system needs it. Therefore, the scheme is proposed to be abolished and the plants currently eligible for the three-stage tariff are expected to be able to switch immediately to a system of production-independent basic amount. Finally, as has also been noted, the bill contains rules on price increases and settlement terms for the Horns Rev 3 offshore wind farm. With the 77 cents apiece. kWh, we have received in billing price, I can see that Horns Rev 3 is the cheapest park in Europe at the moment. So the adoption of this bill is a necessary step for the winner of the offer of Horns Rev 3 to be sure to get the amount of aid or price premium included in the final offer. Of course, I appreciate that too. In general, I welcome the interest of the Things today, and I look forward to continuing discussions on the individual elements of the bill in the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building. And I should like to ask for the bill to be dealt with in a friendly manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151236	Thank you to the Minister, and then... No, there is indeed a brief comment from Mr. Villum Christensen, if the minister will come back.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151248	Thank you. It is because of the Minister's designation of the law as mixed technical candy, I think it was. Was it something like that? Others have used the term rag rug etc. And you can read that there are over 60 pages of repairs and adjustments to everything in the world. And that brings me to my question: does the Minister think that it is a sensible and transparent support system that we have had made in Denmark, knowing that this law now screws and turns on all the many wheels that are to turn on, to find something that seems reasonable and legal in relation to the European Union? And does the Minister think it's gonna stop with this or maybe in a month or two we're gonna have to adjust on a lot of these things again? What is the overall view of the Minister on this system that we have been set up under the energy settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151344-2	Well, I admit that we have made ourselves a system that is technically complicated, but which I must also say proudly delivers the goods. For example: In Horns Rev 3 we are dealing with the cheapest offshore wind farm that will be in the North Sea, and we have seen a green transition that is the most ambitious and has come the longest in the world and that has produced an industry that can export to the whole world. So I think that the results of our complicated system are quite, quite impressive. I am in total agreement that, in order to achieve these wonderful results, we must both lubricate and adjust and tighten and what else is done to maintain a technically complex machine. I have no objection to that as long as the machine delivers the most beautiful results.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151435	Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151436	In the results that the Minister calls quite impressive, so I think it was said, it is also included that 2-3 billion is being added. kr. in addition to the 7.7 billion. kr. we gave last year in PSO, which is necessary as a result of Horns Rev 3 and Krieger's Flak, i.e. a total of 10 billion. kr. The Minister also thinks that it is a fantastic result that we are giving taxpayers or consumers a bill of 10 billion. kr. Is this also something the Minister is really proud of when this energy agreement is to be evaluated?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151517	The guiding principle of our green conversion is that we are prepared to pay an extra price to get something that does not have the side effects of burning coal. When the IPCC held its technical conference in Copenhagen in the autumn, scientists found that the cheapest solution, namely the burning of coal, is going to have incalculable consequences for the climate of the planet. This is what we want to avoid by a broad majority of Parliament's parties. That is why we are paying an extra price to avoid contributing to CO2 precisely that is what this is all about, and I have to say that we have found a way of doing it which is cheaper than anyone else has managed to do it, for example. with Horns Rev 3. Then you can discuss whether you want to spend less on the amount of money it costs to make the switch-over. It is Villum Christensen's attitude or whether you want to do so, and that is the position of the other parties. This is, of course, a political issue, but I am, of course, pleased with the green transition that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151612	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151636	I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Lars Christian Lilleholt, who will explain what this agenda item is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151646	Immediately, we have moved from a very comprehensive proposal to a perhaps slightly smaller one, namely a resolution on whether the Folketing can support the government ratifying the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. This is something that the Left can support, and we can safely do so, because all the demands made in relation to the emissions of CO2 in the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol are all those that we have largely implemented, in any case, in relation to the things we have to live up to in the European Community and the agreements and the energy package that date from 2013-2020. So the Left can back up behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151732	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151745	Thank you. It can be made fairly short. For equally important it is to ensure the momentum and ambition of international negotiations, just as clearly it is that, in this situation, what we are ratifying is, in fact, something that is within the framework of commitments that we also have in the framework of EU cooperation. And, of course, the Socialists support that we live up to our commitments, that we do something to reduce climate change. Even if the rather unimaginable thing should happen, the EU's commitments will fall away.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151818	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324151826	After all, this resolution concerns the so-called Doha amendments to the Kyoto Protocol, which is an agreement between a number of countries on how much they are going to reduce their emissions of CO2 The Doha amendment extends over the years 2013-2020, where, according to this agreement, Denmark is obliged to reduce CO2 compared to 1990. If we keep up with energy, we will know that the reduction we have achieved today is already well above the 30, so this agreement does not have any practical significance in any way. In the Danish People's Party we feel that if Denmark is to take on international commitments to reduce CO2 we are well aware that there are some who are out of reach in all ways, but thus: All civilised countries must participate and assume a fair share of the burden. That is not the case here. Here it is the countries that can be described as climate dukes that have come together and have made commitments. Unfortunately, these are not commitments that go very far in the global perspective, as all the major emitters are not at all with Canada, Japan and Russia having left the agreement again since then. So it's a little exclusive club that's come together here, and I guess it's not something that's batting in the big math. So in that it is not an agreement that everyone or almost everyone is involved in, we do not think that there is any reason why Denmark is involved, and we have also made a major reduction in CO2 so that the Danish People's Party does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324152035	Thank you. Then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Steen Gade, as I see no radical rapporteur at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324152048	Thank you and I will not be radical just to get the floor here, so it will be as SF's rapporteur. The first thing I want to say is that I was somewhat surprised at the Danish People's Party's announcement here. Well, now it is not because I hope so, and perhaps I do not quite believe it, but there is some danger that the Danish People's Party will become a decisive party if there is a bourgeois majority in Denmark. Can it really be true that the Danish People's Party will not be involved in this resolution, which is a prerequisite for us to have international climate negotiations at all? I know, sir. Mikkel Dencker was in Doha, so mr. Mikkel Dencker knows that approving this was a political prerequisite for the negotiations to continue on course towards Paris in 2015, i.e. this year, in order to make a global agreement that actually includes everyone. That is what we are debating now. The conditions for getting there were precisely those that said yes to this in the countries we call the Kyoto countries, in other words the countries that signed the Kyoto Protocol. So, it seems strange, but I do not want to make it a major question to the Danish People's Party; of course, the Danish People's Party is allowed to do so, and then you have to negotiate with the parties you want to bring to the government. But it is certainly not a path that will be easy to take in the future, and then a bourgeois government will have to rely on the rest of us, and it may well be that it would be good in many ways, that is, if we were to get into that misfortune of having a bourgeois government. But my message is that this, which I didn't intend to spend time on, I was actually just going to say: of course we support that is a necessary prerequisite for what the world is now discussing, i.e. an agreement in Paris that covers all countries. And when you say no to this, you have said no to the conditions for obtaining an agreement that covers all countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324152316	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324152326	After all, it is difficult to discuss this Doha adoption, so to mobilise the great enthusiasm and enthusiasm. I'll be damned. In itself, I could be tempted to say that this is, in fact, so small that it is hardly worth supporting. However, the consequence of not having a UN track in the climate negotiations and the consequences of the fact that no country is continuing the Kyoto Protocol in relation to the possibility of concluding a global agreement that can have just a little bit of perspective in relation to the reduction of CO2 Therefore, the Enhedslisten here must choose as saying: yes, we think it is going really slow with the global process. This resolution is a good expression of this, because, on the one hand, the reductions agreed on are such that virtually none of the countries covered need to tighten up what they have said in the past and certainly not Denmark, and, on the other hand, there are quite a lot of very important CO2 so, of course, this is extremely limited in its perspective, but it is also true, as Mr. Steen Gade said that if Denmark were now to resign from this, it would be a very clear signal that, in relation to the process that would like to end up with an agreement at UN level, which would to a certain extent meet the obligations we have in relation to our children and grandchildren to reduce global warming, we would fail completely. That is why the Enhedslisten has no doubt that we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324152540	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324152546	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, it makes no difference for Denmark whether or not we sign this Doha agreement. Unfortunately, the Kyoto agreement as such has not made much difference in the global context either. Where it has had the greatest effect, it has been on the taxpayers' purse. While globally we have spent in the order of 700 billion. dollar per year to reduce CO2 of our energy from sun and wind • 0.4 per cent.! When the International Energy Agency came up with the first forecast for 2040, they stressed that, although all governments are meeting their green objectives, which of course is totally unattainable, in 25 years' time, in 2040 we will have a share of 2.2 per cent from sun and wind. So it should not be difficult to see that this so-called reduction route, on which the Kyoto Agreement is based, is a dead end. In fact, in this way the costs will also be much, much more expensive than the damage you try to prevent. We do not believe in this whole idea of developing and getting innovation through expensive subsidies either. The PC, and what followed, can hardly be claimed to have been borne by subsidies, just as the Internet did not become a reality either, because it wanted to save stamps. No, innovation simply does not come from subsidising, which among other things. a German Parliamentary Commission also proved after the huge stake on solar cells was put in critical light in Germany. If you get a lot of subsidies, it's getting some goods down the shelves and getting some of the taxpayers' money in, and then it's less necessary to be innovative. While the German solar cells are now firmly on the roofs and need to receive billions of euros in subsidies over the next many years, the market is now being flooded by increasingly cheaper solar cells from the East, while production and jobs have therefore been checked out of Germany. There are plenty of examples. In the United States, shale gas technology is not supported by subsidies, and most people in here will know that this marked development resulted in a much higher reduction than the subsidy and tax regime around the sun and wind that we serve in Europe. Energy prices came down about a third in the United States after the shale gas, and it is indeed one of the major growth drivers in the American economy. All these words are to say that we really do not believe in the usefulness of the principles of the Kyoto Agreement. In fact, the bottom line will not be achieved globally until renewable energy sources become cheaper than fossils. So more for reasons of principle we shall vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324152911	Thank you. And then it's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324152917	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill here on the Doha amendments to the Kyoto Protocol, not least because it was our own Connie Hedegaard who was a fierce negotiator down there. After all, it was an agenda to deduce less CO2 We have established it. The 20% that we will have to achieve by 2020 is already over. We think it would be better if an even more ambitious proposal had been put forward, but now it was this that could be agreed, and that is okay. Then we'll make that step along the way. But it is important that we make these changes and adjustments together in order to have a better orb delivered to our successors than the one in which we received it. It is an important matter that we convert, that we have a green change, that we do things sensibly and have as little emissions as possible in our production and in our lives as citizens. Things have to fit together, and the bill has to be paid. It must not cost competitiveness, but when these things work together, it is a sensible and good agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324153024	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then the radical rapporteur, sir. Andreas Steenberg, opportunity to catch up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324153034	Thank you for that and I'm sorry I took a little too long to come down here. The treatment went a little faster than I had just expected. The proposal from the Minister for Climate and Energy means that the Folketing will join the Doha amendments to the Kyoto Protocol. These changes mean that the European Union is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%. up to 2020 compared to 1990 levels. This is in line with what the European Union has already decided on, which we are well on the way to achieving and which we have achieved in Denmark. That is why there are not so many legs in it and we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324153115	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324153130	Thank you very much. It has been exciting to hear the rapporteurs' comments on the motion for a resolution. For as has become apparent, the Danish Parliament will agree with the proposal that Denmark ratifys the Doha amendments to the Kyoto Protocol vis-à-vis the United Nations. The reason for obtaining the consent of the Folketing is that it is an independent international obligation for Denmark. Doha change means that the EU is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%. for the period 2013-2020 in relation to the 1990 emissions. The size of the reduction commitment is within the framework already in force under the EU climate and energy package. The effort under this Doha change is distributed as a result of the EU climate and energy package between efforts in the quota sectors where the EU fulfils as a single entity and efforts in the non-quota sectors where Denmark has an independent national commitment, and that is to say 20 per cent reduction in 2020 compared to 2005. The Energy Agency's projections show that we can expect an over-fulfilment by 2020 of just over 1⁄2 million. t CO2 The impact of the new UN guidelines on greenhouse gas inventories on the precise figure has not been fully established. In addition to the reduction obligation, the Doha Amendment makes a number of minor changes to the Kyoto Protocol without any significant impact on Denmark. Then, when I hear that there are rapporteurs who do not want to support this, I have to say as a background that the Kyoto Protocol was adopted at the Climate Summit COP 3 in Kyoto in 1997 and entered into force in 2005 and has been adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It was then at COP 18 in Doha in 2012 that the parties to the Kyoto Protocol adopted this Doha Amendment. So you can ask, what's up? Yes, the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol is the only international international regulation on CO2 There are 25 countries that have ratified the Doha Amendment. The developing countries attach great importance to the rapid entry into force of the Doha amendment. It is the ambition that both the EU and all Member States can complete the national ratification processes before the Climate Summit, COP 21, in Paris in December 2015. So it is seen in a larger context, where the Danish accession to this, although it does not have consequences in real life, because we are overfilling, nevertheless has an impact on the conduct of the international climate negotiations, which would like to end with a result in Paris. So I would like to thank the rapporteurs who have given their support and inform the rapporteurs who do not intend to support this, that it is of course regrettable and that it is not just a joke that we have it here and that I am therefore pleased to have at least the support of a majority of the parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324153432	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Building Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324153452	The debate is open. First of all, I give the floor to the Minister with the long title of the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324153516	Thank you, President. The Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten will, with B59, require the government to put forward a legislative proposal making the necessary changes to allow the so-called cohabitation requirement in place child adoption to lapse for lesbian couples who have children through home insemination. The cohabitation requirement should instead be replaced by a concrete individual assessment of the couple and their application. The bill must be made before the end of the parliamentary year 2014-15. Last week I was in consultation, where I was asked to explain the future practice of stepchild adoptions in relation to the requirement of co-existence between the adopter and the child. So I have to be forgiven, because I will, of course, repeat myself, but that is why I would like to make it clear once again that it is really, really important for me that all children should have the legal parents, as they are also intended, and that you know what you can count on. That is why I am very much pleased with the amendments we have adopted in the Children's Law on co-maternity. In the children's law, we have rules on who are the legal parents of a child, and this is stated in relation to the birth of the child. Adoption, in contrast, is a family change and happens for that reason later. It is also important that, with the rules of the Children's Act, we provide both legal certainty and predictability for all parties. Mom's a mother, and Mom's a co-mother. In cases where there is a known donor, there is even a unique option. Prior to treatment, the parties may choose whether the well-known donor should be a father or whether the mother's female partner should be a co-mother. Parenthood in connection with the child's birth will be determined on the basis of the original intentions of the parties and, as is important in this context, determined when the child is born. Yet there are couples who make a choice to become parents without observing the conditions for co-maternity in the Children's Law. Parents' choices are important to how their mother's partner can become a parent to the child. If you do not belong in the category of children's law, the principles of the adoption law will apply. Here there are some general requirements that must be met before an adoption is a real possibility. Only then shall an assessment be made of whether the adoption is for the benefit of the child. The adoption law therefore provides a framework for adoption, which must be completed in practice. It is quite good indeed that this is the case, because then it will be possible to adjust and adapt practices so that we have the necessary and correct balance between the aims of the rules and, on the one hand, the development of society on the other. In this context, I would like to make it clear that the requirement for a two-and-a-half-year relationship between the adult and the child is precisely a requirement that has been developed in practice. This is not apparent from the regulation itself in this area. The only thing that is regulated is when the unmarried cohabitants can be considered as cohabitants within the meaning of the adoption law. With the recent development of this practice, which specifically disregards the cohabitation requirement between the child and the applicant, we have a larger palette to play on, whether you are covered by the child's law or want a place child's adoption. Finally, it is also important to make it clear that practice in adoption cases is more complex than just a requirement for two and a half years of child-acquis, and the cases of adoption of places also contain many others than the very small ones, for example. the 12-year-old adopted by his stepfather. Therefore, it is and must be possible to derogate from practice. This is how we develop the area and take care of the children. As I read the motion for a resolution, we actually want the same thing. The authors of the motion for a resolution would also like to know when an adoption is being carried out. It is clear from the motion for a resolution that the co-existence requirement should be replaced by a specific individual assessment, on which there are three criteria to be emphasised, namely the following: how long the couple have lived together prior to any insemination, whether the couple may have other children, as well as any other indicators. This is, in fact, exactly the estimate that the Ankestyrelsen also makes in the cases and, as a decision of January 2015, is precisely an example of. In view of this, the government cannot support the proposal as there is no need for a change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324154025	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and first it is Mrs Tina Nedergaard's.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324154040	Thank you very much. I should now like to pay tribute to those who should be praised, and hence to the government, in this matter too. In fact, we in the Left fully agree with the government in rejecting the proposal from the SF and the Enhedslisten, on which the Minister explained that the demand for two and a half years of cohabitation should lapse for lesbian couples who are home-inseminating. We are opposed for two main reasons. Firstly, because parents, mother and non-legal co-mother, prior to insemination, have made a choice by opting out of the children's law when opting out of assisting a health care professional at the insemination. So there is also a legal concern on our part, namely that we cannot know exactly what has happened in that home. In fact, there may be a biological father who has a genuine interest in being a legal father too, and we also regard that as important in the Left. Secondly, as the Minister very well explained, the Ankestyrelsen has shown by a change of practice that it is possible to dispense with the requirement of 21⁄2 years of cohabitation by the adoption of a place child between the future co-mother and the child co-mother at the adoption date and the birth mother. So I admit that the problem raised by the authors of the motion for a resolution is quite reasonable for us to have a debate. We also did so in consultation with the Minister and are doing so in the Chamber today too. However, we do not feel that the issue on which it has been raised does, for us, entail a need to change the legislation. It is the case with debates in the Chamber that in the course of the debate there may well be a need to answer some questions that have not necessarily been raised down here, because they are raised in the homes or raised elsewhere. One of the arguments in favour of this motion for a resolution concerns a child born of a biological mother, as one typically is, but who has grown up with a de facto co-mother who can then, after two and a half years of co-motherhood, adopt a place child and where that child actually has a biological/legal father in the background, which is not necessarily active around the child. It has been stated in the debate that such a child may be in a very unfortunate situation insofar as the child grows up with a mother and a non-legal co-mother and the biological mother dies before the child is adopted. It has been pointed out from various quarters that it is a deeply problematic situation that a child can thus experience that, legally and biologically speaking, it belongs to a father whom he is not aware of. I think that is an interesting aspect. I also think it is perfectly legitimate to bring it forward in the debate. I would just like to say that this applies to thousands of children who have grown up typically in their biological mother, but without contact with their biological/legal father. And in the situation where the biological mother perishes, the state administration would have to decide whether it is biology/legality on the one hand that weighs most or on the other hand, for example. a network family to take over the baby in such a tragic situation where the child loses its biological mother. We cannot support the proposal, for which we have a great deal of sympathy, and which allows us to have the debate on it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324154443	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, Mr President. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324154450	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think this is an important discussion which the two parties, the SF and the Enhedslisten, are raising with this motion for a resolution, and this also gives us the opportunity, I think, to say that it is important that it has been and is still important for the current government to ensure that one can live together in families in Denmark as much as one would like, to the extent that it is possible and with the legal rights that there are. We think it is a huge step forward that you have the opportunity to be with a family with a mother and a mother. We also think that the rules currently in force give it the opportunity to choose both the way of life, if that is what you want, but also ensures, to say the legal position, which will always be complicated in family situations. After all, it is not a unique situation for lesbian couples or for other homosexuals that there are some legal grey areas in this, and that is why we believe from the Social Democrats that the balance that lies in the legislation right now is the right one to secure both the biological father who could be written out of the equation without really being asked about this, if you have no guarantees, but of course also in relation to the child's best interests in this situation. At the same time as we think it is very, very important that you can live your life as you like, we also think that the legislation actually allows it. You have the opportunity, under supervision of health professionals, as has been said, to make sure that you come under the child's law, so that you get these opportunities to be a family, as you would like, and we do not think that there is a need for legislative change in this area. It's also clear that there's that warrant from the Ankestyrelsen. In it we can say that a situation was precisely interpreted where it was thought that it was a family; where there was no doubt and where there was an established relationship. There was a stable framework. There you go in when you make such a decision and also recognise the real situation in the family, and we think that is a good way to ensure that you have both legal certainty and at the same time have it, you might say, the possibility of interpreting the rules that lie within the Ankestyrelsen. So we reject this motion for a resolution because we believe that the present position is the most appropriate legal basis, but would of course like to stress at the same time that it has also been important for us to establish the right to have families and to live as we would like. I have promised to salute the Radical Left and say that they do not support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324154752	Thanks to both parties. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324154759	Thank you. As our rapporteur has no opportunity to be present, I shall present the speech on behalf of the Danish People's Party. To want the child's best is probably most of us very much concerned about our privacy and our political work. This proposal, which we are debating here, has several considerations in relation to ensuring a child a good life with his parents. In assessing and deciding whether to amend and amend legislation so that the 21⁄2 year requirement can be waived, it is important to look at what is possible today. On the second day, a conciliation meeting was held in the Committee on Social Affairs on the subject, and a number of references were made at the meeting to a case dealing with the issue to which the proposal relates and where the Ankestyrelsen, when dealing with the specific case, departed from the requirement of 21⁄2 years of co-existence. This means that today there is a possibility of derogating from the requirement on the basis of a specific and individual assessment. The Minister also confirmed this at the meeting. What may be relevant to assess in order to take a final position on the proposal is why a lesbian couple who have wanted to establish a family and have children do not choose to go to an approved clinic and screen the semen carried and have insemination carried with medical assistance. Then the desire for a known donor to the child would be fulfilled, and at the same time it would satisfy the desire to guarantee the right of both mothers to the child. The proposal mentions that it may be very cost-effective to have this screening carried out. In other places it is estimated considerably cheaper than what is mentioned. It must of course be examined what is correct, but for the Danish People's Party the amount of money is not the decisive factor in how we finally deal with the proposal itself. On the other hand, we believe it is important to be aware that everything we do in life as people has consequences; there is no doubt about that. It also has consequences when you choose to live in other family forms and want to establish a family with children. There are, of course, primarily biological reasons for this. The Danish People's Party recognises that there are other family forms and that children can also have a good upbringing in these. There are, however, some things that will undoubtedly be different and that require the opinion of the adults. In fact, there is a lot that you as an adult have to deal with when you choose to have children. There will be life and for all those who have children, but when you choose a different family form, there is no doubt that there are some extra conditions that you need to consider carefully and take a position on. There may also be things to compromise on, for example. that you should contact a clinic instead of home insemination. At first sight, this compromise must be acceptable if we are to achieve and share the desire to have a child. In addition, screening can, after all, clarify some health conditions which would not otherwise be clarified if a home insemination had taken place. It must be the child's best interests that come first, which for the Danish People's Party is very important. Finally, it may also be mentioned that there may be family forms other than those mentioned in this proposal, which may also experience inappropriateness in ensuring the legal protection of the child and where the adult has to deal with it. If the co-mother and especially the child are to be guaranteed in a lesbian relationship, if something should happen to the biological mother, it is important to take a position on this before the child is conceived. The Danish People's Party does not consider that there is sufficient evidence to support the proposal, as there is already the possibility of securing the parties, both the adult and the children. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324155208	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I give the floor to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324155224	Today, the rules are such that as a lesbian couple who use a known sperm donor and inseminator at home, they must have had 21⁄2 years of association with the child before the biological co-mother can adopt a place child, and that is what we call the co-life requirement. This is therefore the rule, although there is no doubt that the two mothers are the true parents of the child and that it has always been intended to do so. That rule is a problem, among other things. Because the non-biological co-mother has no legal rights during the first 21⁄2 years of life of the child, including e.g. not the right to maternity leave. But more importantly, it has an impact on the child's right to both parents. There I say quite openly that one thing is parents' rights, another is that which is the most important thing for us in the Enhedslisten. We believe that children should have the right to both their parents. Both the child and the co-mother will be in a poor position if the biological mother were to die before the adoption of the stepchild, because in that case the child would have to be transferred to the biological father, who probably has no contact with the child or who has very limited contact with the child. At the same time, in the event of a divorce between the two mothers, the child will not legally have the right to associate with one parent. And it is our clear starting point that children are entitled to both their parents, even during the first 21⁄2 years of life, and we do not believe that the rules that they are today are in line with that. Since we in the Enhedslisten together with the SF have tabled this motion for a resolution, a new decision has been reached by the Ankestyrelsen, which the Minister has also mentioned, in which the Ankestyrelsen specifically derogates from the requirement of 21⁄2 years of cohabitation. They do so, as the Minister also said, for the same reasons that Enhedslisten and SF list lists as the possible criteria on which future decisions should be based, namely on a completely individual assessment, focusing on family stability and indicators for it, for example. that the couple have lived together prior to birth, that there are other children in the family, but they may also be other indicators. We have nevertheless maintained this motion for a resolution because we want to be sure of it and that is also why we called for consultation prior to the first reading............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... must be an older sibling in order to be able to adopt a place child before 21⁄2 years have passed. And despite that consultation, we have not really been able to get an answer as to what the legal situation is. There I will admit to the Minister as he also said at the hearing that the Minister cannot guarantee that practice develops in a certain way. And the Minister nods satisfied because I have understood the message it is nice; that is how things can go so well. And it is quite true that the Minister cannot guarantee that practice develops in a certain way. It will be up to the Ankestyrelsen. And that is why we in the Enhedslisten find it difficult to understand why the Minister is not doing what the Minister can, namely to change the announcement. In fact, it is something that the Minister does not even need to have the support of the Folketing, but something that he can do on his own. I also do not think it is inconsiderable to say that if you abolish the requirement for two and a half years of cohabitation, it will also apply to the older children, who, in this way, are not the product of a home insemination, but perhaps a child who may be older and who may have lost a parent. And I do not think it is inconceivable that we should also abolish this rigid requirement with regard to these children. Well, you have to ask yourself why it's 21⁄2 years. Why isn't it two years? Why isn't it three years? After 3 years it will be more stable. Would that not be perfectly logical in some cases? In any case, regardless of the child, it should be a concrete assessment because family patterns change. Children are born of single mothers; they may later have a father or a mother number two; two women have children together; all of this is part of the reality that our legislation should be able to adapt to. And therefore, from our point of view, it would be best to always take the child's best interests and what is best for the child, so that we guarantee the child's rights and security. We have asked the Minister a few more questions to which we look forward. And on the part of the Enhedslisten, we would say that it may well be that in some parties this is a small group, but these are some children who do not have the right to both their parents, and thus it is a very important group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324155739	Thank you. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324155746	I shall be brief as I speak on behalf of Mrs Thyra Frank today. With this resolution, the Enhedslisten and the SF want the government to make the necessary legislative changes in order to eliminate the so-called co-existence requirement for local adoption for lesbian couples who are home-inseminating. Instead, the cohabitation requirement must be replaced by a specific individual assessment of the couple and their application to place child adoption. The Liberal Alliance can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324155820	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance. Then it is Mrs Trine Mach who is the rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324155833	In the autumn, a unanimous Parliament voted in favour of the adoption of an amendment to the adoption law, which allowed cohabiting couples to adopt on an equal footing with spouses, including enabling couples living together to adopt their partner's biological child and make a so-called stepchild adoption. The SF supported the proposal because it helped to make adoption legislation more up-to-date so that it escapes with today's family patterns. Some choose marriage here, and some choose to live together without legal documents. However, as both the SF and the Enhedslist, who are the joint authors of the motion for a resolution we are discussing, pointed out during the negotiations then, we, at least in our view, ended the work on a small gap in the law, and that is the gap that our resolution would very much like to patch. The Danish liberalism is one of the things that I personally am most proud of about our country. We are one of the countries in the world in which it is best to live if you are gay. For example, in 2014, Lonely Planet kissed. Copenhagen as the most gay city in the world, and we were the first to make registered partnership between people of the same sex possible. I think that is fantastic, and it shows a fundamental liberalism and respect for human dignity, which we must uphold. That doesn't mean everything is idyllic. There are lots of challenges: hate crime, well-being problems, inequality in physical and mental health, suicide, challenges on the parenthood side, etc., and we really need to have worked on that much more, but the basic freedom and the desire for human equality are there. But that doesn't come by itself. This is something that you cherish and work for if you want to remain in front as a country. That is why we must constantly work against discrimination and work towards inclusiveness and room for diversity and work to ensure that our legislation contains, as far as possible, the population we are and ensures the legal certainty of people. That is why we think this resolution is important. It may be, as my co-author said, that it is actually a very small group in number. That does not make the proposal any less important. Today, as a lesbian couple who use a well-known sperm donor and inseminate at home without an assistant health care professional, you must have had 21⁄2 years of association with the child before the non-biological co-mother can adopt a place child. This demand for two and a half years of cohabitation, as has been said earlier from the platform, in a recent decision by the Ankestyrelsen, is denied in concrete terms, and it is for the same reasons that we as proposers actually list as possible criteria for future decisions, if you did not have a requirement for 21⁄2 years of cohabitation, namely that you could instead have an individual assessment, focusing on family stability, including that the couple has lived together prior to birth, and that there are also siblings in the family and other similar criteria. Despite an excellent and constructive consultation with the Minister last week in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, it is not the opinion of the proposers that we have no doubt that there is no barrier in the legislation itself, not least because we understand that, and that is one of the things the Minister himself mentioned, we should have clarified that the price of semen screening is quite high and it can therefore be a barrier for people who want to be parents. That is why we chose to maintain the resolution because we want to make sure that practice does not lead to one requirement being replaced by another requirement, namely that the couple have another child together. That is what my co-author mentioned earlier. After all, it is not a secret, and certainly not now, that this B proposal does not have the support of the whole parliament. Nor was there any support when, together with Enhedslisten, we pointed out the problem when we negotiated the earlier amendment to the adoption law. But one of the things that was really good in the open consultation was that it showed a fundamental political support for lesbians in Denmark to have the same opportunities to live a normal family life as everyone else, and the fact that the child really has to be at the centre when we legislate is, of course, a very important common starting point. We appreciate that. That is why we had also hoped that together we could find a solution so that we could close this gap, as we see it, where the requirement of two and a half years of cohabitation helps to push a group of citizens from being able to adopt steps at the moment they want it. We had also hoped that some of the possible concerns that we have could be negotiated. And as we heard from the consultation, one of the Minister's concerns was perhaps that now these lesbians might have to pull themselves together and find this health person who can be involved, as the system currently prescribes, and I do not really think that is the position of the Minister. That is why we are missing a little bit, and I do not mean polemical or in any other similar way, that the minister is explaining what the back of the medal is doing what we are actually proposing, namely to change the way we have screwed up the announcement. It is not quite clear, not after the consultation, nor even after the debate now. However, apart from that, I would like to thank you for a very good debate and I hope that we can continue to discuss how to ensure maximum equality for all types of family.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160341	Thank you. There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160347	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that there has actually been very good cooperation on the resolution. This does not necessarily mean that we end up voting in the same way in the Assembly, and it is actually as it should be. I would just like to make it clear that when we choose to vote against the motion for a resolution, it is actually due to the fact that we do not find it to be a gap in the law of adoption. In fact, we believe that this is intended, and that is why we voted in favour of the quite tough demands at the time. It can now be dispensed with if there are other things going on. However, we have discussed this very thoroughly in the Left, and we are actually very pleased that, when you adopt local adoptions, it is possible to discuss whether this area should even be included in the adoption of local children as long as it is under local adoption legislation, some pretty tough demands are made, because changing families is a major issue. I do not really have so many questions for the rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, however, whether the rapporteur can not confirm that at least it has not been the intention of what the rapporteur has heard, we have said in the Left, that we do not want equality between lesbian couples and heterosexual couples, because it is very important for us in the Left too that there is equality, to the extent that it is biologically feasible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160511	Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160513	Thank you. I would like to confirm the rapporteur of the Left that the Left has not said anything that makes me believe that the Left rapporteur is not in favour of equality between heterosexuals and people who belong to a sexual minority, and the rapporteur can take that with peace of mind to his parliamentary group and say that this is not the view of this rapporteur at least. Then I would say that I think, and that is what I said before, that this is really an interesting discussion, because we basically agree that citizens should have equality as much as possible. When we consider it a gap or a lack of clarity as the authors of the motion, it is because this small group of citizens, lesbian couples who want to set up a family through home insemination without a health professional present, does not have the same type of legal security, but have to return to an appeal board decision, and that is what we want to ensure that there was complete legal clarity about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160606	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160609	In any case, I think that this motion for a resolution also serves the purpose of ensuring that there are some general matters which we may be able to discuss in committee, because it also raises the question: what actually happens in a context where a man and a woman live together and the woman simply gets pregnant with another man, where the other man has the right to become a legal father today, and where that child could then first be transferred to the cohabiting man by the adoption of a stepchild? That is why I really think it makes sense that we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment have now taken the initiative, in the past, in the case of adoption without consent, where I was the rapporteur, that we had a technical consultation and try to spread out a little more widely what is actually happening in these cases, even in those cases where there is no contact with a biological parent.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160708	Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160710	As rapporteur for the SF, I would very much like to take part in this. I think that the debates we have in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment are basically excellent in dealing with politics, so I shall support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160720	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Trine Mach. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160742	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Fatma Øktem from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324160759	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Gender Equality for his statement. I have looked forward to reading it and reading about the government's future initiatives in the field of equality. And I have to say it's a thin cup of tea. Not only is it a thin cup of tea, it is also a very mixed country trade of minor initiatives. I cannot help thinking that it must be particularly disappointing for all those voters who believed in the government parties' promises of earmarked maternity leave, women's quotas and bans on the purchase of sex that these promises have been broken. Having said that, I would also like to pay tribute to the government. I have noticed that earmarked maternity leave is not mentioned at all in this year's action plan. The Left's position on earmarked maternity is certainly no secret, so I do not need to explain it again. However, I am very interested in what the governing parties are going for elections in the area of equality. Do you still want to go away earmarked for maternity? If that's how you're going to get back into government, what's it gonna take if 90 mandates aren't enough? It is not because I blame the parties for not implementing it, no, not at all; it is actually the opposite, but I cannot help wondering whether one is still in favour of it. I would also like to thank the government for the fact that the action plan does not support the European Commission's directive on gender equality in boards. I'm gonna keep the government up on that. So: Enough praise to the government. In the debate over the past few years, I have stressed the importance of focusing on the lack of equality among ethnic minorities, and I do so again today. This year, ethnic minority groups are rather small in the action plan. Of course, I find that very unsatisfactory. This is particularly so in view of the fact that in January there have been figures that requests for honour-related conflicts have more than fivefold over the last five years. Where in 2009 there were 440 inquiries, there were 1,183 requests for honour conflicts in 2014. I find that extremely worrying. It is therefore not enough, for example, to produce teaching material on honour-related conflicts for the primary school. Action must be taken. We must take a deeper look at this problem. And there are some good intentions, but we lack the actions. Another issue that has also caught my attention when I read the statement was that the government in the action plan to combat violence in the family and in close relationships between 2014 and 2017 will focus on the fact that men also experience violence. In the Left, of course, we are pleased about this, because we want to put an end to the notion that equality is exclusively a matter for women. For us, equality is about creating equal opportunities for everyone, so for that focus the government must clearly be praised. I find it intriguing that the government does not mention prostitution more than with two lines on page 10, which states that prostitution is a serious social problem and that the government is continuing its efforts Exit Prostitution so that prostitutes are offered a way out of prostitution. It is noteworthy that no account is given of the results of this project, especially given that the Minister for Gender Equality himself has been a strong advocate of a ban on buying sex. The government, together with the Left, has set aside 46 million. kr. for the Exit Prostitution project, and the last time we ran a sample in this area, we hadn't really got anything out of it. I am therefore surprised that no more is written about how far we have progressed in that direction. In fact, I think that characterises the government's way of dealing with the whole area of equality. You jump like lions and you fall like little lambs. You can just look at it in relation to the Equal Opportunities Board. The government wants to weed out in the irresponsible cases, but the truth is that the changes that have been adopted do not really help weed out in anything. We in the Left support the agreement, but it is only because it is a tiny step in the right direction. We went to negotiations with the fact that, among other things, we... We want to introduce a fee because we believe that it will help to eliminate some of those very cases. I am struck by the fact that the Minister wants to reduce gender-separated education and the labour market. I think it is rather paradoxical that the Minister for Gender Equality would like to change the gender-specific choices of subjects and careers, but that the Minister would not intervene when there is direct discrimination against male educators. I understand that men are a little hesitant about educating when there is a ban on having children sitting on their laps and when figures from BUPL show that almost seven out of ten educators feel there is a risk of being accused of paedophilia and that risk has increased in recent years. So you can't both blow and have flour in your mouth. Finally, I would like to say that I am incredibly pleased that Denmark has hosted the European celebration of the International Day against Homophobia in 2016. Homophobia is still a major global problem of gender equality that we need to address, and we Danes have a responsibility to spread equality throughout the world. When the documentary was sent on International Women's Day, I believe that many Danish women and men who saw this documentary felt this responsibility in the same way as I did. I had hoped that we would have gone further in terms of gender equality globally, with the documentary emphasising among other things. also, how much need there is for active equality efforts also outside Denmark. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the floor and I look forward to a good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161524	There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161530	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that the Left's only equality policy is to tell them that they have no one. I think that is quite interesting, because the rapporteur has spent almost all his speaking time telling us what the government has not implemented. What is it that the Left wants to do? I would like to know that, in addition to the fact that there is a challenge in relation to some women with a minority background, what we fully agree on. But what is the policy of the Left besides that? I have been sitting in the Folketing for seven years and can one really continue to say that our equality policy is to say that others do not have an equal opportunities policy? What is your equality policy? I'd like to hear that. Is it not true, moreover, that the Left is actually included in the agreement reached in relation to the Equal Treatment Board? And the only thing left in the negotiations was a fee. That is simply what we could come up with, and we could not get it, and that is why we have ended up saying that we are voting in favour of it. Isn't it true that you're part of that deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161629	Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161631	I think it is a little funny that Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic is accusing the Left of not having a policy, but backing a government that has run from everything they promised. If it is the case that the Left does not have an equal opportunities policy, what has happened in the last 31⁄2 years, which is more equality? We give priority, and for us the most important thing is that everyone has equal opportunities. And if anyone in our society doesn't have opportunities like everyone else, then we think it's one of the most important things. So, yes: the group of immigrant women who do not have access to education and have no right to control their own bodies, we think that is actually one of the most important things. As far as the agreement is concerned, as I also said in my speech, we would like to go deeper and we would really like to look at the entire legislation behind it. We would like to see a definition of discrimination, and I wonder why the rapporteur was there himself. That was one of the proposals. The second was that we would like to have a fee because we believe that it will also help us think twice before submitting a complaint. And then it has been done in such a way that you can get the fee back, so that it should not prevent people from complaining if they have a real case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161743	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161745	In relation to a description of discrimination, I would say that you can just read the legislation, where there is a description that does not take very long. In fact, I recognise the issue of women with a minority background, and I asked afterwards: what is the gender equality policy of the Left? And then you start talking about the government again. When the Left wants to create equal opportunities, how do they want to do so? That's what I'm asking. Will the Left, for example? Is it necessary to change the legislation in relation to male educators, so that the Left will support it if we make a resolution on it? I'm just asking you in concrete terms. I also have a tiny comment to make, and that is in relation to what is happening abroad. Is it not true that the Left would like to cut back on foreign aid and on precisely those projects that help make a difference in terms of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161834	Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161835	After all, Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic raises a lot of questions. So, as far as the definition of discrimination is concerned, it is actually an EU directive that we are under when it comes to the Equal Treatment Board. But Denmark is not the only country that has it. After all, what we asked for was a thorough study of how other countries are doing it. They have a small limit, and that is what we have called for, and that is what we agreed to the negotiations with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161902	I thank Mrs Fatma Øktem. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324161913	This year is a very special year when we are discussing gender equality and the government's perspective and action plan. It was 100 years ago that women were allowed to stand on the ballot paper and to vote for parliamentary elections. In other words, we can celebrate the hundredth anniversary of the change in the constitution which gave women in Denmark the right to vote and stand for election. But the enlargement of democracy did not only apply to women; it was the start of a real democratic Denmark. Prior to that, decades of struggle had gone by, and in 1918 the first women came on things. In 1924 we got our first democratically elected female minister with Nina Bang. We have reason to be proud of that, and I look forward to shortly celebrating the milestone with all of you. Women's right to vote was a crucial part of equality at home, and Denmark is also one of the countries in the world where most women are elected to the national parliament. But we can still be even better at bringing more women into the democratic debate and participation, not least at local level. On the part of the Social Democrats, we also think it is both right and important for the government to focus on the tone of public debate and also on everyday sexism, which too many women are experiencing today. We have a lot to fight for when it comes to equality. The content of the perspective and action plan also shows this clearly, among other things. focusing on the strengthening of the Equal Opportunities Board, continued action against violence against women and efforts to get more women out of prostitution and to combat trafficking in human beings. Another important issue in the fight for equality is the issue of parental equality. There is still a built-in expectation from society and the labour market that women take most of the parental leave and bear the main responsibility for children. We still have a very gender-separated labour market and currently. a pay gap between men and women of 17 per cent. with large differences in pension savings included. We still have the benefit of guaranteeing fathers better rights when it comes to their children. That is why it is important that we work to ensure equality in the public sector, which is also included in the perspective and action plan this year. We must put an end to the idea that there are A and B parents; that is something that I personally am very concerned about, and I am also concerned that we will have the fight that, among other things, we are taking. It's about grief leave for parents who lose their babies. Of course, this must apply to both parents. In relation to the gender-based labour market and equal pay, we also still have work ahead of us, and fortunately we have already started to ensure better equal pay statistics, and the perspective and action plan also focuses on reducing the imbalance that exists today in gender-based education and the labour market. In general, wage statistics are an important tool in the fight to ensure equal pay in the Danish labour market. Another place where we move is to ensure that the entire talent stock is in play, including in the Danish business community. With the model for several women in management adopted by the Danish Parliament, we promote equality in management. It is a model based on the fact that companies themselves take responsibility for drawing up their own ambitious target figures and policies, which should ultimately lead to equality at all levels. This means that we will strengthen the recruitment base, also to top posts, because much more women are at stake at all levels. It makes a difference when we make an effort. We would not have had it in Denmark as we do today if we had dropped the day institutions in the bloom of the welfare state and had just pulled on our shoulders and said that it was only women's own free choice to go home with the children. Equality and the pressure of Danish families' daily lives are not just people's own problem, it is actually an important political issue. The same is true in the great world. In connection with International Women's Day, I attended the UN Women's Commission meeting in New York with several other rapporteurs, and there is no doubt that women's rights are under pressure in many places. That is why I am pleased that global equality work is still part and an important part of the perspective and action plan at home. Denmark must also shoulder its responsibilities here and, with the development of the next UN target for the future, continue to strike a blow for equality and women's rights in the rest of the world. In the social democracy we look forward to helping to achieve the objectives of the perspective and action plan, and we look forward to continuing the fight for equality. This is something that benefits both children, men and women and the whole country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162346	There are several brief comments to be made. The first is from Mrs Fatma Øktem from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162353	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question: are the Socialists in favour of earmarked maternity?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162408	Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162411	I can tell the rapporteur of the Left that it is quite true that I am a historian, and I find that difficult to hide. And on the specific question, I can answer: No.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162421	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162423	So that means that we will not experience the Socialists' laws earmarked for maternity during the forthcoming election campaign. There is no earmarked maternity leave in store if the Socialists come back to power.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162438	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162440	I can explain what the social democracy and government policy are now here. I have many qualities, but I can't decipher in coffee grounds or fortunes about the future. It's not one of the qualities you acquire at the university when you read history.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162458	Maybe a little sedative. I now give the floor to the next person to make a brief comment, and that is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162506	Thank you. Now that it is the hundredth anniversary of giving women the opportunities, including through legislation, I would like to ask a question about the women who are being dealt with, in other words in relation to trafficking in human beings, which is why I would like to hear what the Socialists are thinking about granting residence permits to the women who have been dealt with. The legislation could provide protection for those women and ensure that they are not just put on a plane, being sent back to some backers who pick them up and trade them on. Will the Socialists help to protect traded women by granting them a residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162551	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162553	The Socialists and the rest of the government would very much like to help women who have been subjected to something as terrible as trafficking in human beings. We ourselves did so when the rapporteur's party was part of the government and took a number of initiatives to protect victims of trafficking in human beings. If the SF rapporteur asks whether there are new initiatives on the way, which have not met the public or which are not part of the "Perspective and Action Plan," then I can say: No, there are no new initiatives on the way in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162626	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162630	It is very interesting, that is the second "no' vote by the rapporteur today: no to earmarking the barsel, no to protecting women who are being traded. That's why I'd like to ask you something else. I have heard earlier that the government has said that it is very important for men to have rights to be with their children and they want to give more opportunities. Then I would like to know if, when the objective is for more men to take maternity leave, there are some initiatives on the way that are not earmarked for maternity. You must not misunderstand me, for I know that, and I would never dream of going for that anymore. But are there any other initiatives on the way that could help, like pushing in that direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162713	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162715	Parental leave is, of course, an important part of parents' rights, but it is not the only thing. Some of what is also included in the 'Perspective and Action Plan', which I myself mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, is in relation to the way the public communicates with parents. After all, we have a number of examples, and I have drawn attention to them myself in the press, where we can see that only mothers have a right in one area, or only mothers are informed of some rules. We have to do this, and this is one of the initiatives that the government is also focusing on, in other words, how we can ensure that fathers also receive the information that they naturally need.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162806	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162809	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I will try to follow up on what is about trafficking in human beings. It is true that the current government has done a little bit to combat trafficking in women, but I would like to ask the rapporteur if it is not true that more people are still being traded for prostitution in Denmark than there were in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162836	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162838	The challenge in this area is that we don't know. There are different numbers, and there are different ways of calculating these things, and there's also a big difference between what the official numbers are. So the challenge is there. All we know for sure is that there are many more cases of trafficking in human beings than are identified as such. But the problem is that we do not know for sure, and that is of course worrying in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162910	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162913	I heard that mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff said that he did not want it extended, so that you can grant a residence permit to people who have been proven to have been traded for prostitution in Denmark, and that naturally annoys me a little. But as a starting point, I would like to ask whether one can give them another opportunity, in relation to what is called the reflection period, which is today 3 months old. Can we not put it up more so that there will be a better opportunity to investigate who are behind the trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162946	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324162948	That is why the government, together with the then government party SF and together with Enhedslisten, has just extended the reflection period. We thought it was quite reasonable. Now Enhedslisten asks if we would like more, and that is an honest view, but it is now not on the way here from the government. But I also heard Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr recognizes the agreement we have made and that it is a step in the direction that Enhedslisten is calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324163025	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff and then welcomes the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324163035	Thank you. This is the annual report we have on equality, and I always look forward to reading these small booklets. Usually there's also a lot of numbers in it, and that's one of the things I'm sprinkling over that's not in this booklet. You always start with an introduction, and then you've at least in this statement, like four areas where you have some visions. Then I thought, that's fine, that's, we can all have visions. And then I thought, well, how do we achieve this? And then we can turn on and see that you focus on something, that you do some mappings, that you make some plans, etc. etc. Then it struck me a little • now I have been equal opportunities rapporteur since 2007, i.e. since I joined the Parliament that not much has really happened. There is probably in the small things, but when you look at it in general and look at such an equal opportunities statement, it sometimes seems a little like we're going in circles. At least something puzzled me when I was reading it. In the other statements on equality I have read, there have always been figures on how many women were subjected to violence and how many men were subjected to violence. There's always been, but there's not in this one. Then I thought, why isn't there? Could it be because it is not so awfully long ago that we were in a conciliation meeting where the Minister said that violence in close relations has been reduced over recent years? I asked for statistics over the last 10 years, and when you look at the figures, it is true that the number of women with Danish citizenship who were exposed to physical partner violence in 2000 was about 2 000. 42,000 and that by 2010 it had been reduced to approx. 29,000. It's good to see you. Something's happened. In the year 2000, we did not speak the men at all, but we did so in 2005 and there were 8 000 victims of violence, while in the year 2010 there were 10,000 who were exposed to it. It is then made up as a percentage of the population, and it is always nice, because then the increase is not so great. But to me, the increase from 8,000 to 10,000 is a 20 per cent increase. over 5 years for men. At least that's how I learned to count. What have we done in the same period? During the same period, we have done nothing compared to the men's shelters, nothing! They get a little charity here and there, but we have four shelters for men, and so there are men who are subjected to this violence, as well as there are women. Yet it is the men's crisis centres that we hear are threatened by closure because they must have the funds via the rate pool. Over a ten-year period we have been allocated 60 million. kr. It is also dangerously fine, but it does not change the fact that every year, when we approach the New Year, men's crisis centres do not know whether they survive or not, and I find that problematic. So we're talking about equality. We're talking 2015. How the hell is it that women's crisis centers are in finance law and men's crisis centers aren't? Then it may well be that women need one type of help and men need another type of help, but basically it doesn't matter. The Minister for Equal Opportunities, who is also the Minister for Social Affairs, must also be able to see this. And I simply cannot understand why nothing is done about it, because it is not that large a sum, and I think it is important. That's one thing. The other thing I see when I read these equality statements is in relation to honor-related violence. Because it's a problem that we don't talk this through properly and get something done. I read an article that was in Information here on March 21: Women in Honor Conflict feel abandoned by shelters. I think it is important to point out that this is a major problem. There is an example of a woman who has been beaten by her sister, and because it is the sister, it is suddenly not honorary-related, although the problem is the same. Then you don't do anything, and then you're not entitled to a seat. There are examples of women being rejected because there is a lack of space in places where it is a little secret where you are, and that is typically what is needed when we are talking about problems relating to the conflict of honour. So I find that problematic. We need to do something about it. It's very concrete, and instead of sitting around and making plans to do business and writing books about what we're running around and focusing on, it could be that we had to spend the money on something like this. Perhaps that would be much better for those who have been hit. Then the last thing I think I want to mention is the equal treatment board. The Danish People's Party is in the agreement, and I remember when we went to the negotiations that my comment to the Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Employment, I think, was: keep it simple. Just keep it simple, because we have seen some ridiculous cases in the Equal Treatment Board. I also believe that I have been one of those who have commented on several of them; I could quite easily do so. But I think it is important, when we have an equal treatment board to deal with cases, to make it as simple as possible. It is possible that there should be a fee, but I think it is actually a fine deal we have made and if nothing else can we see if it will work. And that's because it's kept simple. Actually, I think so. So that praise is to be given to the government after all. A little commendation sometimes. I think I'm gonna stick to this. We can always talk about things that are missing or not missing and that there are things that need to be done better, but may I not just say basically that when we talk about equality, when we talk about what to do and not do, I think it is important that we focus on getting the funds out there where they do good, instead of perhaps spending them sitting and making awful many action plans, etc. about focusing on and such fine expressions. I think we all know what the problems are, but it is also important that the funds come out where they do good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324163736	Thank you. There is at least one brief comment. It's from Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324163742	Thank you. It is very interesting to hear the Danish People's Party. Whatever debate it is, the Danish People's Party believes that more should be done and that more money should be set aside. Where funding comes from and whether they themselves have given priority to it is always such a mystery to the rest of us. I've been negotiating bet pool on/off for seven years, all the time I've been sitting here. I do not have a We negotiated this time too, and there I did not hear the Danish People's Party say that there should be more funds. Therefore, I would like to hear: Now that it is not through the bet pool that you want to find the money, does Dansk Folkeparti have it through their financial law play? Is it some money they have set off there, or does the Danish People's Party think, as with all its other proposals, that it is Santa Claus who brings money?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324163834	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324163837	I wish I believed in Santa Claus. That'd be nice... really, really nice. Let me put it this way: it has been a wish that we had man crisis centres in the Finance Act, but I have never been out to make the proposal, because I also have to find the money. So I am aware that this is a little cheap, you might say, but everything else you have to say is that the amount that the men's crisis centres should have is, after all, so small compared to the state budget we have, that we should be able to find it. I really think so. That's one thing. In relation to saying that there are many wishes and we are just demanding more and more money, I would say that I do not really think we do. What we're really saying is that these things in the statement that we're focusing on and we're making action plans for and we're doing yours and we're doing that, are paper money. Don't get me wrong, you spend a lot of money making plans. When they are then put into practice, we have no more money because we have spent it on plans. Then I'd rather have fewer plans and then put some money out and get it implemented. I hope the rapporteur understands what I mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324163943	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324163946	I understand what the rapporteur is saying. 800 million kr. We got distributed through the bet pool. The rapporteur says that it is very little money, so why is it that the Danish People's Party did not make a wish for the few money to be found? That's one part. I also asked whether the Danish People's Party itself, in its own financial law negotiations, considers it important that the men's crisis centres should have some funds, because I think that is what we think. After all, in relation to the whole equality debate, we need to focus not only on women, but also on those men who need help. The second is that the Danish People's Party mentions honorary violence. I think it's strange to call violence something with honor, but leave it alone. I have also been involved in negotiating that package of honour-related violence. After all, there was no wish from the Danish People's Party that the crisis centres that deal with these in particular should have more funds. I simply do not understand all these wishes. We do not put them in, we do not provide funding for them, we do not go to the right places, we mention it in the press, but there will be neither proposals nor more money from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164045	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164048	Now I'm not the one who negotiated the pool of rates. That's one thing. But I know that the Danish People's Party has made a demand that the men's crisis centres should have money, and I know that our social rapporteur brought it with him. I also know that what we have got is 10 million. kr. kr. It is therefore a wish of the Danish People's Party, there is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164117	Then we move on to the next one with a brief comment, and that is Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164119	Thank you. I find it strange that Mrs Pia Adelsteen says that it is little money to be spent on men's crisis centres and that that money can be found in the state budget. Yes, but what did they do while we had the previous government? Has the Danish People's Party tried to do more for men's crisis centres under the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164147	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164150	I have to admit, I don't know. When I arrived in the Danish Parliament in 2007, it was at least one year or one and a half before I had really got into the problem so well enough to think that it was something we wanted, and then I was the gender rapporteur. But I know that we have noticed this in relation to the crisis centres that have been for men. It must then be said that we may not have seen the problem at that time either, but it was because money was provided through the pool of rates, and then the funds in the pool of rates were considerably greater than they are today. After all, it is our great challenge that there is not much money in the rate pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164226	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164229	Do I understand the fact that Mrs Pia Adelsteen says that it is fine that you can finance it over the rate pool, rather than going beyond all sorts of other things? I'm very surprised. As a starting point, the rapporteur says that it is little money, so why has it not been raised with the previous government? Mrs Pia Adelsteen became the gender equality rapporteur in 2009, as far as I remember, but why has it not been taken into account what preceded it? I'm very surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164304	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164306	I am not saying that I think men's crisis centres should be financed from the rate pools. I don't think so. It is very, very important, I think, that the funds that men's crisis centres should have will be calmed down, and that is precisely why they should not be financed through a pool which should actually be for new projects, new social projects. That is what the entire agreement on the rate pool is about. Therefore, it should also be the case that the men's crisis centres are, of course, in the Finance Act. I think they should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164343	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, there are no more brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164357	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, our equal opportunities rapporteur, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, could not be here today, so I am speaking on her behalf. Human Rights are Women's Rights and Women's Rights are Human Rights. This is how Hillary Clinton began her speech when she spoke the other day at the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Beijing Declaration. She went on to say: There has never been a better time to be a girl and a woman in the world than today, but the work is far from complete. Both in Hillary Clinton's speech are true. Many improvements have been achieved for women and girls in the world, including better education and better political representation, but things are going far too slowly. And the figures for child and forced marriages, physical sexual violence and circumcision of little girls remain very alarming. Denmark, with its human rights-based development work, is making a great effort, especially in relation to our size, also in relation to women and girls and their opportunities. Among other things: we are placed in an absolute top of donors in UN Women. This international track is an important area for Denmark when it comes to equality, which we radically think is also very well described in the statement that we are debating today. We would also, of course, like to thank the radicals for this statement. It is nice to be presented with a solid overview of the work both on- and on-site. Thus, on to the home track there too, the pot is kept in a boil on the equality front. Although Denmark is at the forefront of the world in this area, it is nevertheless important from the radical side to say that we still have work to do and things to debate during the hundredth anniversary of women's voting and voting rights. For example, the figures for sexual harassment and attitudes towards rape remain somewhat worrying, to say the least. Domestic violence remains a major social problem, just as honour and forced marriages are found in certain ethnic circles and pose a fundamental threat to the freedom and opportunities of some women. Trafficking in human beings, which particularly affects women, into the sex industry, remains a serious challenge. These things must be worked through, we must have a response, and here we believe that the statement shows that a step has been taken to meet these challenges. But we would also like to stress that we do not believe that we have finished acting on this matter yet. In addition, the report also addresses other important issues such as the gender-based labour market and the gender-based education sector. Here, too, initiatives have been taken and something is actually happening. Recent studies show that in Denmark we have actually achieved a less gender-separated labour market, and that is a good thing. Because that means that everyone has more of the same real opportunities, and perhaps even more importantly, that we can get more talents into games, for example. that more men can contribute new things in kindergartens, leisure homes and schools, and that more women can contribute in, for example, the police. Similarly, the Danish model for women in management has proved to work, so that several companies actually make policies in this area. We must, of course, follow this closely because we are interested in the fact that there are real opportunities and as much talent as possible in play. The last area from the report, which we would like to touch on radically, is the Equal Treatment Board, which has been the subject of a major debate both in the press and in the debate. Some members of the Folketing have aired the idea of possibly closing the list because of some of the cases raised by the Board, for example. on Bella Sky and hairdresser prices. Here I think it is important for the Radical Left to say that we are actually pleased that a good agreement on new access to the name has ended instead. Because it is obvious that it is not the many everyday cases that receive media attention. The many rye bread cases about quite common, if one wishes, well-known discrimination in the labour market, in the nightlife or elsewhere because of gender, ethnicity, religion or sexuality are rarely said so much about, although they are far in excess. And discrimination based on sex, sexuality, etc. in writing. - (FR) In this way, we should also continue to take seriously. In other words, there are enough areas to engage in, both in Denmark and abroad, which is why the issue of gender equality and the debate on gender equality remain important. That is why we are also pleased with these annual statements and debate on statements. So again: thank you to the Minister for the statement and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164821	There is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164827	I know that the rapporteur is a substitute for another rapporteur, but we just have a rule that when you make a speech, you should also be able to answer questions. This is something that has been discussed in the Bureau. And this question isn't very complicated. I know that the Radical Left has been in favour of earmarked maternity because the Radical Left has basically taken the view that if one is to change the structure of society, one also has to go in and make some legislation in relation to giving men those rights. That is why I would like to ask a question, because now the Social Democrat rapporteur has the same question: is the Radical Left in favour of earmarked maternity leave for men?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164902	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164904	It is quite correct, as the rapporteur says, that there has been a debate on this, including in the context of the government base, which also shows this. And the overall assessment, both by the Radicals and the government, was that it was not right at this stage to make an earmarked maternity leave for men.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164923	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164925	Well, in the government base, it said we should have that. That's what you chose to pull out, but it's a different matter. I do not actually ask about the attitude of the government, because I know it; it has been told by the Minister on countless occasions, and he says the same sentence and does not even make a single mistake in it. So it's not the one I'm interested in at all. I am interested in the position of the Radical Left, because if I ask the Minister, will the Minister say that he represents the government, and that is why I ask the rapporteur: does the Radical Left favour earmarked maternity, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164953	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324164954	We in the Radical Left think it is incredibly important that men also take time with their children, that they also take something off the bar, if that is possible, and that they also take advantage of their possibility of parental leave. So that is also something that we have a very high priority in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165009	Then Mrs Pia Adelsteen has also signed up with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165013	I could not help but follow up just a little, because it is simply so easy when the radical rapporteur says that it is just not the right time now. When, then, is this the right time to introduce earmarked maternity leave if it is not when you sit in government and have the opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165035	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165037	It is true that there has been that debate, and I should not hide the fact that we in the Radical Left have also argued that it was a good idea for men to have better opportunities to spend time with their children while they were young, and we have also discussed this about earmarked maternity for men. But we must also note that this is something that has been the case in the debate, so that if so, there are two options for us. We can either leave it as part of the current maternity period or extend the maternity period. After all, this has a large number of consequences for the individual family's choices in relation to e.g. economics, and that means that it may not always be the right decision and the right initiative to take. So we have been through the discussion, it is not a secret either, and we have put ourselves in the line that says that this is not really the right way to meet the needs that we think are important, namely that men have time with their children while they are young.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165131	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165134	But I just have to understand it correctly, because as I hear it, it means that the Radical Left is still in favour of earmarked maternity leave, but that the time is not right, and because you have been in government for 31⁄2 years now, you have become as smart as the rest of us were before the elections, I would just say, because we have always meant that you should not have earmarked maternity leave. Therefore, while you have the majority, you do not think you should introduce it, but it may be that it comes at some point. I guess it's a little confusing, but that's actually how I get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165208	Sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165209	Well, I am not going to repeat myself, but I can say that we in the Radical Left do not have any initiatives on the way now in relation to an earmarked maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165219	Thank you, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, and we move on to the next rapporteur. It is the SF rapporteur, Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324165241	Thank you. It's such a kind of tame feeling to stand up here when you know it's actually the only time we're gonna do it in this year. Because the government has presented a legislative catalogue and the only thing on the legislative programme in the field of equality is, in fact, this statement. There's nothing else. There is not a single proposal. And it is particularly sad because it is the 100th anniversary of women's voting rights. It is particularly sad because we know that it is with legislation that we have come as far as we have come for the last 100 years. That is why it is not only sad. It's also embarrassing that you don't use an historic opportunity with the majority you have in this Parliament together with SF and Enhedslisten to create some social changes in relation to equality. Actually, I think it's embarrassing for the government. There has been every opportunity to create a new agenda. When you look at the state of equality, I know that a lot of people will say that women with minority backgrounds are worse, but that does not mean that equality is running in Denmark. And the minister will say: Well, look straight out the window, a lot of other places they feel worse. But that does not mean that we are in the end. That is also why I basically believe that if it is believed that equality does not come naturally, then we must continue to work for measures that create equal opportunities for both sexes. Equality comes The history of the last 100 years shows that women have been allowed to vote, that the sexes are treated equally, that they have the right to parental responsibility, that they have the right to free abortion, that they have the right to equal pay. These are just some of the examples that suggest that legislation has guaranteed rights that are absolutely fundamental in a democratic society such as ours. That is why it was particularly sad when the Prime Minister said at the 100th anniversary in Vega that she personally did not believe that legislation was the way forward. Now I had no speaking time there, but I was very tempted to say: but it is precisely legislation that has made you Prime Minister as a woman; it is legislation that has ensured that you are actually where you are. When you look at what opportunities there are in creating equality, the government does a lot to say that equality is part of the government's DNA. I usually say, it's not part of the government's cells, tissue, or chromosomes. And I'm afraid this statement shows that too. Yeah, okay, it's okay, we can always make pamphlets, and promotions can also be done around. You can also do some studies, that's fine. However, if we are to move on basically to the structure of society, we need to look at the very big equality agendas. One is that men are given the same rights in terms of maternity leave. If men are given the same rights in terms of maternity leave, it is not only men who win by being allowed to spend time with their children. I don't think men have the same options today. Nowadays, it is the wage that determines whether you are allowed to have maternity leave. Of course. Just to take my own example: My husband took 7 months of maternity leave, alone because I was a member of parliament. If I had worked as a nurse, we'd have gone down a lot. It is, of course, because legislation helps to provide a framework for agreements. The legislation also helps to set a framework for pensions, with which many of these women are still lagging behind. And all these places, you could make a difference. You didn't choose to do that. The second thing in relation to legislation is who is at the top, whether women are involved in deciding. The figures show that there are fewer women in the Folketing, fewer women mayors, fewer women municipal councillors, fewer women in management positions. It is all the way through that power is not equally distributed. After all, we have done something together in relation to several women in management, and if it goes as it goes, it may well be and it is the latest figures from the Ministry that there might be equality in 30-40 years. So, business gets the free pass again and again to decide for itself how and how. I also believe that we need to set an end date for how long we have to wait for equality to come about by itself or when we may sometimes have to push it through. A third point in relation to legislation is trafficking in human beings. Some of the people who are in a most vulnerable situation are actually those who are being traded. Today it is the case that what makes it possible for us to help them is that we know that aid is not sufficient at all and where it is essential in relation to people who are being traded is to be able to grant them a residence permit. It also requires a change of law. But basically it is about whether you think equality is important; whether you think it is important and whether it is something you have to fight for; and whether you have to do it here in the Assembly, whether you have to do it in the debates. Just to give a concrete example: we would like there to be a more balanced distribution of the sexes in the labour market, and we would very much like there to be more male educators. The Minister has even set a figure of 3 million. kr. In addition to this, there is a need for further measures to be taken in order to prevent the spread of the At the same time, however, the government does not want to go in and say: 'Well, there should be no special rules as to whether male educators should put sunscreen on the children at all, whether they should have them on their laps, and how'. And change diapers: Uha, oh, we are afraid that the basics are pedophiles. Why, then, is it that you do not go there, if you do not believe in legislation, and say to the National Association of Municipalities: what is completely unacceptable. I want you to stop doing that. This can be done as a minister, if you do not believe in legislation, then at least you can use your own office to say: I would also like to take the lead in creating equal opportunities. I don't want to affect sexual harassment, because we're gonna have to talk about that a little later. That is why I believe, basically, that a historic opportunity has probably been missed by the government. There was an opportunity and there was a majority: the government, together with Enhedslisten and SF, had been able to get its proposals through. The saddest thing is that this is not just the last time we are here to discuss the statement, that is to say have an equal opportunities debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. The sad thing is the alternative: the Left and Conservatives and the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, whose only equality policy is about having none. It's the most depressing thing. So I can't even decide whether to cry the most about the government or whether to cry more about the alternative there is. That is also why when the Left repeatedly praises the government in the field of equality, it is something that makes my red heart beat extra fast. For what are they praising the government for? They commend it for dropping earmarked maternity leave, not having a ban on buying sex, not advocating equal representation in managements. It's all the way through. It is all these basic social structures that we could change and which, unfortunately, have been abandoned one by one. I would like to conclude by saying that there are now more people who have mentioned this in relation to women with minority backgrounds, some many say that it is quite awful that there are so many who are subjected to violence. I would say that it is absolutely fantastic how many people are looking for help in the shelters. For me, it's a gender equality fight that kicks ass. You can't say that from here, but I mean it. I think it's amazing how many women won't put up with them being beaten. They will not put up with social control, which is why they are looking for help. We're just not very good at talking these women up. We keep talking about them like they're the worst poor ones, but shut up, a strength to have to stand with your kids in the hand and your suitcase, close the door behind you and search one crisis center after another for help. That is why I think that there is a joint responsibility not only for holding beer box speeches, because there is a tendency on the part of the right to do so, but also to make a real difference to these women. And this is done by recognizing that we have to have the men, the brothers, the fathers in play, because just as much as they can be part of the problem, they are part of the solution. That's what you do in Sweden. In fact, I find this extremely interesting, and we should do so here too. So do we. I know that this is one of the things the government has also emphasised. And I'm actually quite happy about that. In conclusion, there are not so many things in the area of equality. Not only that, but the government also proposed that we should reduce the possibilities of complaining. For the Government's proposal to the Equal Treatment Board was that now the possibilities of complaint should be reduced. I am very pleased that we succeeded in proposing that we should not simply reject cases if there is no personal injury, but that the Institute for Human Rights should go over them, so that we are sure that the cases that need to be raised and have a social interest are raised. The government has chosen to listen to that. And one should remember to praise: thank you for listening to one proposal this year. I hope you'll listen a little more, because you can still make it. If there is no election until the autumn, we can still make some legislation together. All you have to do is tell them we want to deliver the mandates.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170320	Before we begin with the brief remarks, I should like to confirm that the word 'r' and 'three-letter' is clearly outside parliamentary language. There is also another small word that starts with s- and also is in three letters... Özlem Sara Cekic No, actually there isn't; it's taken off). It's taken off the list of indecent words, I understand. You might be wondering. I must have read that again, but there was at least one word that we do not see repeated. Good. Before I get lost in trying to comply with the rules in here and lecture people about parliamentary proper conduct where I should know from what it is then we proceed to the brief remarks, and that is first Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170400	Thank you. It's always nice to be lectured so you can remember how to talk to each other in here. I have no doubt whatsoever that the Socialist People's Party is in favour of earmarked maternity leave for men. That's 100 percent sure. I think it was at the same time that the party had left the government that we had the first resolution here in the Chamber. And I have no doubt that the rapporteur is tormented by the fact that it was not implemented during the sitting in government. I have no doubt about that either. May I just ask: can the rapporteur not tell us what arguments the Socialist People's Party has apparently been resistant to, but, as the Social Democrats and the Radical Left seem to have been so good that it has been dropped with earmarked maternity leave while you are in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170455	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic will try to reply in one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170458	This is such a strange question, because the rapporteur would like me to tell you what the Radicals and the Socialists think. It's kind of hard. I think that perhaps the other rapporteurs should have been asked about this. What I am hearing, and I think the rapporteur himself is hearing this, is that this is not very popular. These are some of the first things that came out when earmarked maternity smoke: well, does it have just the gravity it needs to have in the population, and will people back up? That is actually what I have heard and what has been the reason why it has been dropped. When we look at precisely earmarked maternity leave in the countries that have it, it is only progressing. So it's an amazingly good tool. That is probably why all four parties have tabled joint motions for resolutions on the red wing and the purple wing, and I am very surprised that they have then chosen to drop it. But it's probably been because you've been thinking: well, there's no support, so we better not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170601	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170605	I am aware that it is quite difficult for the rapporteur to respond on behalf of others. But I thought maybe you could get an insight. Because we've been trying to ask the others, and there I don't really think you get an answer, so I figured I'm trying here. I have another question to ask you. The rapporteur said in relation to the issue of women's quotas in business that we would probably achieve equality in 30-40 years and that business was more or less exempt because of this scheme. Does the rapporteur think that equality is equal for women and men at the top of the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170642	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170645	We are with the agreement we made with the government in relation to the Danish model. I basically take the view that if business can do it themselves, they must do it themselves. That is the best thing, because if they think that is what they should do, then there really is sustainability in it. They must set up targets that they must achieve. Unfortunately, things are slow. I think there's an increase of 0.9%. or 1%. Well, maybe it's 1%. We usually say 40/60, but no matter what... it's not like that today. Because right now it's not going the right way. There is something about an increase of 1%, and it may well be that it is the level of ambition of the government. But I don't think it's going well, which is why it's probably 40/60 percent. That's what we usually say from the SF's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170737	Then we move on to the next one with a brief comment, and that is Mrs Merete Riisager from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170744	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that fewer members of the Folketing are women, and now the SF and the Liberal Alliance are very different in terms of equality. We think it is important that there is equal opportunities, equal rights and equal dignity, but that we do not necessarily have to have equal final results, because men and women must also have some freedom to choose how they want to organise their lives. That is why I would like to hear from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic: what is it that prevents women from putting up and being elected to parliament today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170826	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170829	I didn't say fewer women, because the figure has been 39%. for a number of years. But I think it is due to several things, and now I assume that there is a real interest in hearing what I am thinking. I am thinking as one of the reasons for this, of course, because of the opportunities available to people to enter politics. I also believe, like the other, that it is very much about how conscious the parties are in terms of presentations. So, in the SF we have such a goal of how many women, how many with a minority background and how many workers we would like to have on our lists, and I would just like to emphasise that it is not because we now want quotas in here that is not at all that, because it is the way to choose it democratically. However, I believe that one of the reasons is the lack of awareness that is out there in the parties, in relation to thinking in broad representation as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170919	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170922	Thank you. In relation to the lack of awareness, I would like to ask: does Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic mean that there are parties which overlook the women who want to be placed in parliament, who either deliberately or unconsciously overlook the women who actually want to set up, who are not just focusing on who wants it and who is talented, but who simply categorically overlooks female potential candidates?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170947	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324170949	There is such a demand, also from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, that I should guess what other parties are saying. Well, I'd like to say it from the SF's point of view. Our policy has been that, if you are not aware of it, it slips a little into the background. That is why we have a completely conscious policy in relation to the diverse representation, and that is how it is: The more you work with it, the more conscious you are in relation to being able to recruit as well. That's one part. I also believe that the whole way women are assessed in public spaces is important. And that's the second part, does one want to stand out completely and be in the lead and every other day get commented on his sender, his behavior, his pitch? We can just see it in relation to our own prime minister. How many times do you have to hear about her bags and her black nail polish? I think that is important, but it is not black and white, so it is not just one or the other. I think it is very complex and different factors that determine it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171045	We shall now proceed to Mrs Fatma Øktem for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171050	Thank you very much. The rapporteur pointed in this direction and said that many speeches from beer boxes are being made and that the right wing is busy talking about its lack of equality policy. So I just want to ask very quietly: what has been given to the Danes by the SF sitting in government? What have they got in the area of equality, which was significantly different from what was before we had a change of government? What has been the big difference in SF's being in power?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171126	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171129	I think I will respond in another way, because the rapporteur repeatedly says, in relation to people with a minority background, that something needs to be done. The rapporteur may not remember that, because she is a newly elected member of parliament, but I remember that the Left would not change the law in relation to women who are victims of violence. They were supposed to be in a marriage, in a violent marriage, for 7 years before they could get a residence permit 7 years! That was the policy of the Left. I think it is a beer box speech when you stand here on the platform and talk about the fact that now we have to do something about women with minority backgrounds who are being subjected to violence. Seven years were required for them to be beaten, beaten, subjected to social checks before they could get a residence permit. Because the answer from the Left was that they could just go home. That was the Left's answer, and we do have one, for example. Changed. It is just a very concrete example of how it has made a huge difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171227	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171230	That is to say, because you have been subjected to violence, does it give you the right to live in Denmark, compared to divorce, without violence? I think that is a different way of thinking than what I stand for at least. But that's not really what I asked. I asked whether the SF has really implemented what they have done with electoral promises, all that with their earmarked maternity leave and women's quotas, as the rapporteur once again says. The rapporteur says that a priority area for them is women with a minority background, who have some major challenges, and the rapporteur then mentions that those involved in the conflict must be involved, that is to say, to talk to men and so on. This is a bit funny, because in all other areas of equality, the rapporteur would like to legislate, but when it comes to an area where there are really some gender challenges, the rapporteur will only talk, persuade or enter into dialogue and not legislate. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171342	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171345	I understand that the rapporteur is very keen to change the subject. It is quite crazy that the rapporteur can say that just because you have been subjected to violence, you must be allowed to be in Denmark. It's pretty crazy, and that's what I mean by beer box talking. The rapporteur stood up here talking about honour-related violence and how important it was to help these women because they were in a very, very difficult situation, because they were excluded, there was no network, and they could come back to a country where no one wanted to know about them. And I say quite specifically: the rapporteur's party was in favour of putting up with beatings and violence for seven years before they could obtain a residence permit. Is that equality? Is that really what the Left is going to do for women with minority backgrounds who are being subjected to violence? I really think it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171432	We thank Özlem Sara Cekic, because there are no more brief remarks. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171445	First of all, I think it is a good thing that we can celebrate the hundredth anniversary of women's participation and that we should also celebrate it later. When I read and listen to the government statement, I can see that there are some good intentions, but I have to look a long way for substance in the plan in terms of specific, measurable and timed objectives. First of all, I think that one of the most important things is the lack of equal pay, which, of course, means a difference between men's and women's whole lives. We need to fight for equal pay in order to secure the whole working class against employers. I am surprised to hear that the government and the previous government also say that the pay gap between men and women is approx. 4% That's what they call unexplained differences. But when you look at it objectively, you can see that the difference in reality is 17 per cent difference between men's and women's salaries. After all, this is primarily about the gender-separated labour market or the division between women within the public and men in the private labour market. That is why I am in favour of us as politicians working for equal pay by means of an equal pay pool. If we think back a little, it was, of course, before the collective bargaining in 2008, that the public employees pressed for higher wages. This meant that the Socialists, the Socialist People's Party and the Danish People's Party made a proposal for 4 billion. kr. to raise the wage of low-paid people in the public sector. But nothing happened. In the next public-sector collective bargaining, 1 billion will have to be set aside. kr. to a special equal pay pool in addition to the planned wage funds. The funds must be targeted at 10%. with the lowest wage in the public sector. Such a wage ceiling would go particularly to those groups where there are many women. That is, for example, the case. Pedagogic assistants, cleaning assistants and social and health workers. It can be financed by savings on the state's use of private consultants, which today cost the state approx. 4 billion kr. We must also combat violence against women. Each year, some 29 000 women are subjected to violence by a current or former partner. Since the first action plan against violence against women from 2002, we have had national strategies for the area. Overall, however, efforts are too much influenced by pool financing and projects. I believe that there is a need for women who are subjected to violence to have robust rights in the Services Act, so that women have a legal right to receive help both immediately and in the longer term. Victims of partner violence shall be entitled to outpatient treatment and advice, based on the Services Act. Today it is virtually only possible to get help by moving to a shelter, but the need for treatment and advice is much greater. On top of that, a much stronger effort must be made against trafficking in women. Trafficking in human beings is the third most lucrative form of crime worldwide surpassed only by illegal trafficking in weapons and drugs. Traded people should not be imprisoned, but should instead be placed in a safehouse. This is done in individual municipalities, but it must be national and compulsory. Victims of trafficking in human beings must have their reflection period extended from 100 days to 6 months, while non-traded persons who do not wish to return to their country of origin. Identifyed victims of trafficking in human beings should be given the opportunity to obtain a residence permit in Denmark if they so wish. These are a few concrete examples of key issues which, in reality, are what we need to debate in order to promote equality. And I believe that we will have a better society if we promote equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171911	Thank you, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr. There are no brief comments. Before proceeding with Merete Riisager of the Liberal Alliance, I would just like to say that I have been informed by Mrs Fatma Øktem that she also spoke on behalf of the Conservatives. So when the Conservatives do not come forward with a rapporteur later, they have made sure that their views have been put forward. It's important enough. Then I give the floor to Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324171931	Thank you. I have decided to make a very positive speech today, because the government has actually done some sensible things in the area of equality. Among other things, it has... Some of its own initiatives have been rejected, which has meant that important levels of freedom for citizens have been maintained. I would like to mention three things. One thing is the earmarked maternity leave that the government dropped. This means that families can set up the bar as they wish. That is very positive. Most families would like that, including my own. Then you've dropped the crime of prostitution. I think that's really good too. It is based on knowledge and insight in the field. It is the case that prostitution is many things; it can be from abuse and desperation, where some women or men prostitute themselves out of need and misery and get into quite awful situations, to quite different situations where there is a transaction between adult people, which thus forms part of a voluntary relationship. So not to outlaw prostitution is in every way an act of reason. It has also been decided not to introduce quotas for women on board boards. This means that women like myself can make careers on their own terms instead of having to sit on a board like some aunt sitting there because you happen to be a woman and that companies can have the opportunity to decide for themselves who they want to put on their boards. I am just very concerned that the European Union is hitting us in the back of this particular area, so that we get quotas through the back door. It's bad for Denmark, but it's also bad for other countries in the European Union that you should have this EU patronage and that the EU interferes in how the boards should be composed. Of course, it has no time on earth. I am also very pleased that the government has listened to the Liberal Alliance in relation to the Equal Opportunities Board and has introduced some sort of de minimis limit. It may not have been as designed, as we would have suggested, but it has been listened to, and the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance in this Chamber has been taken forward, and I think it is actually a fine and sensible act to do so, so that hopefully the Equal Opportunities Board will not become the one here that bothers citizens when they are doing what they would otherwise like, for example. give free access to older gentlemen at a knitting festival or introduce a pink day at a football stadium in support of the Cancer Combat. It is clear that it is not, of course, the task of the Equal Treatment Board to bother ordinary citizens in their general activities and in the barn of the Board of Appeal to combat discrimination. I believe that this concept is something that will be extremely important in the coming years to clarify what we really mean when we say discrimination. What is discrimination? Is it discrimination if someone else feels that the intention itself is quite essential when we talk about discrimination? In other words, we wanted to discriminate against someone, for example. gives free tickets to older gentlemen at a knitting festival? I guess you don't. And it is this intention that we have to get into our conceptualization of the concept of discrimination, because otherwise it can run completely into the fence, as we see in our brother country, Sweden, where this concept has not been defined at all. What is to happen in the future? What should we focus on? In the Liberal Alliance we see a number of focus areas, and I will mention three of them here. The first is inequality in migrant environments. Once again, therefore, we must not learn from Sweden in this area, where the debate on equality does not really deal with the fact that there are particular problems of inequality in the migrant environments. And you could say that is perfectly logical. When people come here from other parts of the world where women are not regarded as equals, of course you also bring some of your culture. So we are not just capturing the culture of the country we come to from one day to the next; it is simply not happening. But it should be the case that women in Denmark, Danish women, wherever they come from, can enjoy the same freedoms, the same degree of freedom in their lives as women who grew up in Denmark. It is an incredibly difficult exercise, but it is nevertheless the task. The next point I would like to mention is the rights of fathers. This has also been mentioned in the platform earlier today. And we have to say that something is happening here where the system is somehow failing and where the fatherhood has developed in such a way that fathers want to be primary parents in a different way than fathers might 20, 30, 40 years ago, and it is as if the state administration has not followed. Children need loving parents, mother and father or father, but loving parents, and so no one says that it should be mother who is the primary parent. The next point I want to mention is rape. It would be very good if we could get a whole new and different focus on rape in Denmark so that we could crack the rape basket. The number of rapes in Denmark has been fairly constant for a number of years, and therefore we should also dive into this area and simply find out how we can know more about what is happening. Who is rape and who is rape and where is rape, what is happening, what is happening, and so on.? We should simply have something more under our fingernails and it should be spread so that in the political arena, too, we have an understanding of the problem. If you look at others, what should you say about accidents that can happen to people, for example: The number of road deaths has actually been reduced very, very drastically over a number of years, precisely by researching and finding out where it happens, who it happens to, what circumstances there are etc., and there has been a huge reduction in it. I imagine that to some extent we can be inspired by that work and focus on how we can break the rape basket. On the whole, as I said, I believe that the debate on gender equality in Denmark has been in a positive phase, where we have moved away from what should be said to be such a little elitist middle class feminism to focus on some real problems instead of pseudo-problems, and I also think that this is important to focus on in the future, i.e. that we do not fall into navel play, but that we look at those places where there is a limitation of equality and equal opportunities. We don't have to be the same, we don't have to do the same, but we have to see each other as equal, and we have to be equal before the law and have equal opportunities. I would also like to say that I think we owe it to women and men who have fought for equality to be grateful. It is this century of women's right to vote that we are here with the opportunities that we have today, because some have fought for them before us, and we must be grateful for that, and we must also be aware that, when it comes to equality, it is not such a permanent status that we achieve, it can actually go the other way, and we must be aware that our daughters and sons also have equal opportunities and equal rights that we have benefited from. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324172807	Thank you to Mrs Merete Riisager from the Liberal Alliance. There are no brief comments, so we can go further, and we now move on to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324172816	Thank you for the floor and thank you for a very good debate. I would also particularly like to thank Mrs Merete Riisager right here in the end. It was really constructive, I think, there is no doubt about that. Especially the one about diving into the whole rape problem position. I'd like to sign for that. We can talk about that at another time. As I said, this was very constructive. The activity in this Chamber, including all the places we have been to, is a little evidence that it is something that concerns us all. We are not only concerned about this here in the Chamber, it has done so in the media as well. There have been some slight misunderstandings. You can live with them. There have been some surprises. You can drill in them. The seven-year rule, said by the Left, seemed to me to be quite interesting. Then the SF had a few figures in relation to the boards of directors about whether it was 0.9. It was also a small misunderstanding that needs to be corrected. It's about all the boards. With those we're talking about, the heavy ones where we've done something, there's been a progression of up to 11%. There has also been some misunderstanding about what has been in the government base. It has not been stated in the government base that we want to introduce quotas either. It is true that there was something about earmarked maternity leave. Of course, we have talked about this a number of times, and I wonder if we will discuss it even more. But with that backdrop it is of course worth saying that we want to give women and men, boys and girls equal opportunities to unfold their talents and create a life as they want to live it. And, as several speakers have also said, we have made a very, very great deal of progress in terms of equality. After all, this year we are going to celebrate the hundredth anniversary of women's voting rights, and we must be really proud of this, as some have said. The Hundred Year is celebrated and celebrated throughout the country, and it does so both by organisations and associations, it does so by citizens, government and parliament, and it is so much a celebration for equality, it is so much a celebration for democracy that we must all be a part of. At the same time, it is also an opportunity for debate and to highlight the fact that equality is not something that we should take for granted, as some people also mentioned, especially Mrs Merete Riisager here at the end. We must look to the future and we must continue to push forward because, as everyone has said, we have challenges that require commitment, participation and action from all, all three elements that are so much in here. It is also thought-provoking that, although we live in a country that is known for taking the lead in the field of equality in a great many areas, and we consider ourselves to be those who take the lead, we also see that for many women it is quite common to receive hateful sexist e-mails or even threats when they interfere in the public debate that the SF also mentioned as everyday sexism. Everyday sexism and the harsh and condescending tone of the debate are indeed a problem. It is for equality, and it is for democracy in particular. We should not in any way accept that women or men should, for that matter, but it is mainly women who are experiencing it because of their gender being limited in their opportunities to participate in the community. It is not a reality that is in any way consistent with fundamental values such as freedom of expression and equality here in Denmark. With the perspective and action plan, we are launching initiatives that will both reach those who will be able to plunge a woman into the S-train or write off threats of rape on social media and those who see it but do not say away. This is a challenge for which we must all take responsibility in everyday life. And the very thing about taking responsibility also seems to me to be very, very important when we talk about equality, because, as some people have said, we need to legislate, legislate, legislate, but equality is the way to legislate on some things, but other things are also about taking responsibility and changing attitudes. Another central area is everyone's right to a life free from violence regardless of gender or ethnicity. That is why it is absolutely crucial that this year we continue with the targeted efforts and continue to take the initiatives of the government's action plan against violence. We do so with offers of support and assistance for victims of violence and their families, as well as efforts to prevent violence. Another serious problem is that there may be some who do not like the word, and that of course one can also discuss honour-related conflicts, because unfortunately to this day, in 2015, in certain ethnic minority environments, there is still a high degree of social control. Of course, we should not accept in any way whatsoever that culture and religion are used as an excuse to limit women and girls in particular to deciding their own lives and making their own choices. This is an issue which the government is concerned with and which many people are concerned about in here and which we, the government, will continue to leave at the heart of gender equality work. The government is therefore putting in place a wide range of measures to prevent and counteract social control. Then there is another element that several people have also mentioned: equality in the labour market. Equal opportunities in the labour market is also still a key issue that we are concerned with. As a society, we are totally dependent on all talents coming into play and neither women nor men meeting with barriers because of their gender. There's no way we can afford that. We see already now, a few years after the government developed the Danish model, that the vast majority of companies have just adopted the model and set targets, and the largest companies have even set very ambitious targets. That's a good thing. If those objectives are achieved, we will actually see in a few years a major change in the number of women on the Danish boards, and I do not think that 30-40 years will pass, as Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic mentioned. I think we will see a progression much faster than we expect. I'm actually really proud of that. When it comes to the gender-separated educational choice, which several people have also mentioned, we must continue to push forward, and I fully agree. It must be the case that young people choose education according to interest and skills and not by gender and prejudice about what is best suited to a boy or girl. Then, as you know, we have the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and a great deal is going to happen there too. Because during the Presidency we will focus on how to get those girls who have an interest in science and technical subjects to pursue exactly their interest when choosing higher education. We will also follow up on the experience with a pool to promote male educators in day care institutions. If we look outwards towards the great world, as several of you have also mentioned, it makes me so proud that Denmark is among the most equal countries in the world. This also means that we have an obligation to take the lead. They're listening to us, they're looking at us, and they're counting on us. We must continue to push developments both at home and in the world. And fortunately, progress is being made around the globe. At the Women's Commission meeting in New York, there was clearly also a very, very good will to continue to promote gender equality globally. I'm afraid there's also a but. Unfortunately, we still see that there are countries where the rights of women and girls are being systematically violated and curtailed on a daily basis. There are even countries that are making serious attempts to curb progress and roll back equal rights. It is therefore important that we, together with like-minded countries, stand firm and take the lead in the fight for progress. Finally, the new perspective and action plan for 2015 shows that we are taking the challenges seriously both internationally and at home. This is an action plan for this year. This does not mean that there is nothing happening in the area of equality, because we have put a lot of things in motion last year and last year, and I could go on like this. Equality, as I started with, does not come in any way by itself. It's not a fixed state that you can just take for granted. It's not a fixed state that you can just count on. It's not a fixed state that you just think is always there when we get up. Equality is for everyone both to enjoy and, of course, also the most important thing, namely to contribute. I think we do, too. Thank you very much for the floor and thank you very much for a very good debate so far, and I look forward, of course, to the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324173822	Thank you, Minister. So far, two have asked for brief comments. The first is Mrs Fatma Øktem from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324173830	Thank you. And thank you for your statement. Discrimination is, of course, not in But there is one particular area that we have also been in consultation with the Minister about where there is very clear discrimination in the labour market. There are studies that support the fact that male educators do not feel safe and that they feel that they are almost potentially accused of paedophilia. And there are some limitations on what they can do with children in the day institutions. I find that quite alarming. We were in consultation with the Minister on this and then the Minister told us that there was a dialogue the following week with KL etc. I would like to hear: when it is so clear that it is not about educators, but that it is about men Has the Minister thought about it? Is something going on? After all, the Minister himself said that it was not okay, of course. But what has happened since?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324173938	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324173941	As you know, we have municipal autonomy here in Denmark, and I get the impression from time to time that this is something that the Left is opposed to. I hope it does not happen, and that also applies to the regions. And municipal selfgovernment means everything else equal. It's almost in the word "communes" that make decisions themselves because they know what's going on around them. You also know what is going on in each institution. This does not mean that I believe in any way whatsoever that we should just lose out on these rules, but I believe that we need to find a balance. Fortunately, this has been achieved by far, by the vast majority of institutions, because it is also about the safety of children. Whether you like it or not, it's also about that. Of course, it is also about finding a balance so that you do not scare away the male educators and create a discourse that all men are potential paedophiles. But having said that, I would like to say that I have entered into a dialogue with the KL, and I have also, as far as I remember, called on male educators to take the matter up in the Equal Opportunities Board. You have that opportunity and, frankly, you have to take advantage of that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174051	Thank you. It's Mrs. Fatma Øktem again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174056	That is to say, although seven out of ten male educators say that this is a problem and, as I said, we do not need to legislate on everything; it was also mentioned by the Minister that the Minister will not take it up to a higher level. And so you leave it, even though it is so obvious that it is about discrimination against men in the pedagogy sector. The Minister said that there is no need to legislate on everything and that sometimes there must be room for change of attitude. I think the Minister and the government are wonderful examples of this, from what you wanted to do to what you did. So I only sign for that. There is something else I also mentioned in my speech and I would like to ask the Minister. I know, of course, that in the past the Minister has been a great advocate of criminalising the purchase of sex. There is very little mention of Exit Prostitution, but how far has it been? The last time we ran a sample, only two women had been in contact with the entire project. The Minister mentions it in the statement, but there is no mention of how successful it has been or how far it has come or anything. Can we find out a little bit about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174216	Thank you to Mrs Fatma Øktem. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174219	I don't know if you have to get it up to a higher level than KL-- so there are some people who would think that it's God or something like that. I really don't have any other plans I can draw it up on than the National Association of Municipalities. If the rapporteur is opposed to what the rapporteur usually has in the field of equal opportunities, then I am happy to hear it. However, the rapporteur has no good ideas and I fully agree with the SF, because I have not heard any good ideas in the last three years, but if there are, I am quite happy to hear it. There is no doubt about that. As far as Exit Prostitution is concerned, as far as I remember, 78 or 88 women have been through it. Now it is not just about numbers; it is also about people. It's about people being helped, and there's And I can of course and I'll do that too, send over a paper so you can see that it's more than 2, and that there's a progression going on in this area. This is something we should be very proud of. These are some of the most vulnerable groups in Denmark, and we will of course help them. I am, of course, pleased to have the opportunity to say that the positive thing is that the rapporteur is interested in at least a little for there are, as the SF's rapporteur also mentioned, and there you may disagree with at least some concrete measures. There is nothing concrete from the Left and, in particular, from Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174402	Thank you, Minister. There's no one else, yes, there is. Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174416	Thank you. Two ethnic names are also many names to have under control, it can be a little difficult. In fact, I will continue where the rapporteur on the Left left off. In fact, I hear the rapporteur say that, in relation to male educators, there is a desire for equality. I think that is actually quite specific. Then the Minister says that there is municipal autonomy. But I guess the minister has a point of view. In other words, it is not the case that we have to use the legislation to make sure that I have not heard a single rapporteur say it... force different rules through the day institutions. The Minister can easily talk to KL and say: I will not accept that; I simply do not want male educators to have any special rules, according to which they are regarded as paedophiles and therefore must not change diapers on the children and must not lubricate the children into sunscreen. The Minister can demand that of KL. Why is it that the Minister doesn't do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174517	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174520	I have both met with KL and said it elsewhere, and I think it is easy to find this in various newspaper quotes that I do not like special rules for men. However, I also recognise that there are some people in the municipalities' institutions who have chosen to have some rules in order to find a balance in relation to the safety of children. Do I agree with them? Not necessarily. Do I think that's a good idea? No, I don't think so. Have I encouraged men to take this matter up with the Equal Treatment Board? Yes, I do. And I think you should do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174601	Then there is the second brief remark by Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174604	But what I don't understand is that the Minister is going to take a meeting, mention this here and speak out in the press and say he's against it. It is complete as we other rapporteurs do; we also mention all sorts of things in the press, but we do not have the same power as the minister to change things. It is only the Minister who can change things. That is why he is a minister, even the Minister for Gender Equality. In other words, it must be the most important task as Minister for Gender Equality to ensure equality. But in this particular case, with one hand you give some money to a pool that will then ensure more male educators, and with the other you accept that there are special rules with which they are suspicious. I simply do not understand why the Minister does not say: I just want that. And what does that even have to do with self-government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174657	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174700	It was crazy. There were three things the rapporteur did not understand. I cannot be the master of what the rapporteur does not understand or understand. I also noticed it in connection with the speech, where there was all that about the percentages, the boards and so on. etc. I can't control that. I can have an opinion on that. We can disagree. That's the way it is. There is nothing unorthodox about that in any way. And we are the rapporteur who wants everything to be regulated more or less. There's no way I can recognize that. Yes, in the rapporteur's speech it was said that if we are to change, we have to legislate and so on, whereas I say: try to calm down now, try to breathe down your stomach. When we have made some changes, we have legislated, but it also requires changes in attitudes • it also did with the Danish model • because it is also an important part of it. And it may well be that the rapporteur does not like it, but it is very, very important and a large and important part of gender equality work. To be quite specific, I would like to repeat that when it comes to men, (Third Vice-President Yes, thank you! ) I have been out to say that it is not my cup of tea with special rules, but that it must be up to the municipalities themselves. That is what is local self-government. Excuse me, Chairman!
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174826	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174830	It's very short. In fact, I think the Minister was given the answer to this at the end: it was not the Minister's cup of tea with special rules in relation to male educators. But may I not just say that the only reason why I actually pressed the button was the way the Minister replied to the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. Because it was just so arrogant, I thought. It is quite all right to disagree, but I do not think that you can stand and tell other people in the Chamber that they are all the way to the woods, and that is actually how I see what the Minister is saying. That was actually the reason why I pressed the button and then to get an answer as to whether you think it is okay with special rules for male educators or not, but I think the Minister just got the answer to that in the last two seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174917	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324174919	It should in no way be condescending or arrogant, but we disagree. We disagree on how the approach to equality should be. I do not think that one can legislate out of everything and then think that one can change the world in that way. I do not think so, and there we disagree. I do not know what Mrs Pia Adelsteen's position is, but I disagree with the SF. I also disagree with Mrs Fatma Øktem on the approach to equality, very much disagree. I disagree with the seven-year rule, and I also disagree with many other things. With regard to men with educators, I would say: No, it is not my cup of tea to have special rules for male educators. I have repeatedly called for the matter to be dealt with in the Equal Treatment Board, and frankly I think we should do the same, because that is the way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324175013	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen for another brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324175017	I suppose there are several ways of dealing with this, because the Minister can do something about it, even if there is municipal autonomy. The Minister has so desisted from doing so by saying that it should be taken up in the Equal Treatment Board. There we can hope it comes up. I think that would be a good idea. But then my second question is: can women not be pedophiles?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324175036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324175038	Yeah, they can actually do that. Women can easily abuse children, but that's not the point right now. This is about special rules for men, but that doesn't mean that women can't be pedophiles. I know only cases have been raised, let us just say the last 5-10 years about men and paedophilia when it comes to day institutions. I don't know about cases of women and these are charges I'm talking about where a conviction has been handed down. It may have been, but I am not familiar with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324175124	Thank you to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324175141	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 26 March. Then it is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic's first explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324175214	I have called for this debate on sexual harassment, on how we can combat it and how we can prevent it in the labour market. I've done that because I think it's a huge problem. Figures from the Ministry show that this is about 70,000 people. It is almost double, I think, of how many people have fallen out of the benefit system just to put it a little in perspective. I also think it is very much about a culture that has developed in our country, in relation to what one can afford and what one cannot afford to do with women. For the vast majority of those who suffer sexual harassment are women. I have called this inquiry debate to discuss what we can do on the part of the Danish Parliament. Prior to this question debate, there has also been a consultation on sexual harassment, where both ministers have been present, both the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Gender Equality, and where we have tried to clarify many of the issues relating to the levels of compensation, in relation to getting these cases raised, in relation to getting witnesses to tell about what they have experienced, but also in relation to how difficult it is for these women to raise the cases, because psychologically many of them break along the way. The reason why we call today's debate is because we really want to know what we are doing now. Now we have asked a number of questions and have received a number of answers. Some of the questions will not be addressed at all by the ministers, but we have, after all, received a lot of answers. And when you look at the answers, there is a lot of evidence that there is a need for a national action plan. There is a need for the Danish Parliament to set up, it could be an inter-ministerial working group with the trade unions.I know that 3F has worked very intensively with this and experts in the field to find out what we should put into this national action plan in order to be able to go in and do something to prevent, but also combat sexual harassment. But we also had to look at it from a legislative point of view. Is there anything that prevents you from raising matters? Is there anything else we can do? That is why what is, like, the whole framework of this debate is what we can do here by the Folketing. That is why we have also produced a text for a proposal for adoption, and I see that it is SF and Enhedslisten who support that there should be an action plan, and I see that the government then rejects it with their own text. I will discuss that later when I have to pick up the debate. I look forward to the debate, and I also hope that, in some way or other, we can get a little closer together, because there is no doubt that this is not just a problem for the individual. It is also a social problem when there is a culture that so permits sexual harassment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324175527	Thank you to Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic. Then it is first the Minister of Employment for Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324175546	SF has asked me to explain the extent of sexual harassment in the Danish workplaces. SF has also asked for an account of the government's existing and future initiatives in terms of combating sexual harassment and ensuring proper action in cases where it has taken place. I would, of course, like to start by stating that sexual harassment at the workplace or at all is unacceptable. For this reason, sexual harassment is also part of the psychological working environment, which is one of the priority areas for action on health and safety at work. Let me begin by explaining the rules governing sexual harassment. The rules are set out in the Working Conditions Act and are quite clear: no employee should be subjected to sexual harassment. It is the employers who are responsible for ensuring that work at a workplace does not result in physical or mental health deterioration due to bullying or sexual harassment. However, it is also important that colleagues, health and safety representatives and the company itself take sexual harassment seriously and firmly away from it. An understanding is needed that it can be difficult to deal with sexual harassment. It takes courage and openness to talk about it. We all know that it is easier to talk about, for example. a machine that is shielded incorrectly. That is why it is important for companies to speak openly about sexual harassment, both in order to prevent it from happening and in order for there to be the tools needed if sexual harassment occurs and before it may escalate. I can inform you that in the period 2012-2020, the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work carries out a major survey of the working environment in the Danish workplaces every two years. The survey is called "Working Environment and Health in Denmark 2012·. It was first published in 2012 and is the largest research-based study on working conditions in Denmark. In fact, as many as 16,300 persons employed have responded. There is no final inventory of the study for 2014, but the first indications suggest that the level of sexual harassment is the same as the last time, i.e. approx. 3% Studies have shown for more than 10 years that the extent of employees who experience unwanted sexual attention at work is actually fairly constant around the 3%. This does not mean, of course, that we have to accept a figure of 3%. That is why the government has also launched a number of initiatives, and let me briefly outline what the government has already done. Firstly, a broad policy agreement in the field of health and safety was reached in 2011 with the so-called 2020 strategies. Psychic working environment, including sexual harassment, is basically a priority in the strategies and therefore also in the health and safety action towards 2020. Psychic working environment is a high priority in the Factory Inspectorate's supervisory activities at individual workplaces. Secondly, the Danish Labour Inspectorate carries out an inspection effort with a focus on the psychological working environment. Thirdly, the Labour Inspectorate has set up a hotline on bullying and sexual harassment, to which everyone can call for guidance in preventing but also dealing with sexual harassment if it occurs. Finally, an easier access to complaints for bullying and sexual harassment has been established, so that a complaint can easily be submitted via the Danish Labour Inspectorate's website, which will then be dealt with anonymously. What does the Factory Inspectorate do about supervision visits? The psychiatric working environment and therefore also sexual harassment are in focus on most of the Factory Inspectorate's inspections. If the Labour Inspectorate finds that there are problems with sexual harassment, it shall issue an injunction to the undertaking to prevent sexual harassment. Invitation to prevent sexual harassment will always be accompanied by a so-called counselling offer. This means that the company has a duty to use an authorised health and safety adviser to help solve and also prevent the problems. This is therefore a very thorough follow-up work. In addition, the advice injunction triggers a red smiley to the company on the Danish Labour Inspectorate's website. I am pleased about this, because it signals that this is a very serious problem in the working environment. I believe that these are measures that can help, and if there is a situation of sexual harassment, that we can reinforce and continue that effort. SF has also asked me to explain what the government will do in the future. I am very pleased that, together with the SF and the Enhedslisten in the 2015 Finance Act, we have allocated 77 million. kr. to maintain the level of appropriations allocated by the Labour Inspectorate in 2016. This means, among other things, that the Factory Inspectorate can continue with a supervisory effort with a focus on the psychological working environment, which then also includes sexual harassment. I would like to mention that in 2014 the Research Foundation for Safety and Health at Work has allocated money to a project to prevent and deal with sexual harassment in the area of care. The project is aimed at developing methods to help jobs in caring for the prevention and management of sexual harassment by clients. It's a project that runs over three years. The bill on the prevention of violence, threats and harassment has now been adopted and entered into force on 1 February 2015, and I have therefore asked the Labour Inspectorate in cooperation with the social partners to draw up a decree. Guidance material will also be prepared to explain how the rules are actually to be understood. Finally, I would like to mention that less than a month ago, the government concluded an agreement with SF and Enhedslisten on combating sexual harassment. Two million has been set aside. kr. We agree that information efforts can help prevent problems from actually increasing. In conclusion, I would like to stress that there should be no doubt that the government takes its task very seriously when it comes to prevention, but also to following up sexual harassment in the workplace. As I started by saying: that is not acceptable. We must do what we can to fight it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324180213	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments to the Minister for Employment and Employment. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324180235	Thank you. Short remarks come first in the second round. Of course, I also agree with the words of the Minister for Employment that sexual harassment is completely and totally unacceptable, which is why I am very pleased that the government is focusing on the problem and on the initiatives that the Minister for Employment has just presented. As Minister for Gender Equality, I also clearly see sexual harassment as an important part of the gender agenda. Firstly, it is more often women than men who are subjected to harassment in the workplace, and secondly, it is typical of them in women's professions, for example. SOSU employees and nurses most affected. This is also apparent from the study to which the Minister for Employment referred, namely the study on the working environment and health. It is totally unacceptable if sexual harassment means that men and women do not have the same conditions at their workplace. It is not okay to have a tone or a form of association in which women or men are made a laugh or belittled because of their gender. We have one of the world's highest proportions of women in the labour market, and it is absolutely crucial that both sexes participate both in the labour market and, as such, in society in general. That is why it is important to focus on the fact that sexual harassment does not only take place in the workplace. Sexual harassment and everyday sexism also occur in the public domain, where women in particular are harassed and threatened. As I said, this is not acceptable and can end up restricting women's opportunities to participate precisely in society, in debate and in the utmost consistency in democracy. To a large extent, this is about the way we deal with ourselves, about attitudes and mutual respect. We all also have a duty to say away from both the job and, of course, in the public domain if we experience or witness sexual harassment. In addition to the concrete things on the labour market that we have just heard about, I will also launch a study on how to address relevant target groups in order to stop everyday sexism and sexual harassment in public spaces. The aim of the effort will be to raise awareness of the problem, and at the moment there is a focus on everyday sexism in the public debate, and precisely this momentum must be maintained. That is why I, as chairman of the Nordic Council of Ministers for Gender Equality, also focus this year on equality in public spaces, as I mentioned in my previous speech. Here we need to discuss in concrete terms how we can contribute to equal opportunities for women and men to participate in public spaces. I have also, together with the British Minister for Gender Equality, just put hateful statements on the Internet and social media to debate on the global agenda in connection with a joint panel at a UN conference in New York. It is also an agenda that has an international focus. We also clearly sensed this with the feedback that came from that conference as well. Increased awareness helps to create awareness that it is okay to mark your limits and say from both the workplace and in everyday life. We have also seen in the past how campaigns and debates contribute to changing attitudes and behaviour, for example. violence in the home today is not a private problem, but, as such, also a social issue, which we all have a responsibility to help put an end to and, of course, to refrain from if we are witnessing it. Now the time has come for everyday sexism and sexual harassment to be said from the outset. Finally, I would like to repeat here that sexual harassment is totally unacceptable and the government is taking the problem seriously with concrete initiatives. In addition, it is important that we all, both in the workplace and in everyday life, are precisely aware of saying "no', as I have mentioned earlier. That is because we can only raise this agenda together. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324180656	Thank you to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Secondly, Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic, the rapporteur for the questioners. And then the debate starts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324180712	Thank you. The websites where you try to put together these experiences in relation to sexual harassment that people have are really, really shocking reading. Many of these people who are being sexually harassed tell about how the harassment has been going on for years; how they have tried to say no, but there have been a lot of people around them who haven't helped them, so they have been completely alone in that situation, and many of them have also ended up actually becoming very, very sick of it. First of all, I would like to thank the trade unions, particularly the 3F, who are fighting hard to put this on the agenda. Without their vote and without their efforts in relation to this problem on the labour market, I do not believe that this had been put on the agenda either. We can look at how things stand in relation to the extent of sexual harassment. I said before 70,000, but I really want to correct that. In relation to the occupational health and safety survey, 3% have been subjected to sexual harassment in the workplace in the last 12 months. That is equivalent to 60,000 people, not 70,000, as I said. It most often affects those who work in the service industry, SOSU assistants, nurses, physiotherapists, ergotherapists and special educators, especially younger women. According to a survey carried out in the EU, 26-37 per cent have. of Danish women were subjected to sexual harassment. It has to be said that it is outside working hours. That is the highest figure in the European Union. The journal 3F examined it and found that 20 per cent. of the female employees have experienced unwanted sexual attention in the workplace, but only 9%. has complained. When you look at the labour market survey that has been made and the figure, like everything else, says how extensive this problem is in relation to 60,000 people, then a lot of things are mentioned from the ministries. Then it is mentioned, there is a hotline, and that there is a supervision, and that you can do one thing and the other. But when you dive into the numbers, you can see that to the hotline that has to take all these cases, there are 1-2 calls a week. 1-2 calls a week, max. 50-100 a year. I would just like to remind you that the figure was 60,000 people who were subjected to sexual harassment in the labour market. And when you look at how things stand in relation to trials that end in a judgment, you can also see that it is first and foremost very difficult to determine it. This is also a problem in itself, for the way you record is in itself a problem with which many of the cases are also settled. But according to 3F's count, the average number is 3-4 per year. The figure was 60 000 victims of sexual harassment in the labour market. There has been only one case before the Equal Treatment Board on sexual harassment, and that is because the Equal Treatment Board is arranged in such a way that they do not interrogate witnesses. So that's where we have the other problem. On average, it takes approx. Two years to get a case through, two years. And when you look at how things stand in terms of recognition as an occupational injury, there are ten cases per year. When you put all these things together, you don't have to be a professor in order to be able to figure out in relation to these 60,000 people who are subjected to sexual harassment in the labour market that those who receive help, those who complain, those who receive compensation, are a minimal number. That is why we so much need to say here on the part of the Danish Parliament that if we really believe that this is a huge problem and I hear the ministers say that we must also put some action behind it. It is quite true that we have added 2 million. kr. together in a pool to make some conferences and some pamphlets and stuff. But we also need to look at who is responsible for sexual harassment. I have heard several lawyers talk about the need for an objective responsibility. This means that you can not only go after the person who has been sexually harassed, but also after the job in question, so that you can also carry out proper supervision. It's one way. In relation to the burden of proof, there are a lot of those who work on this issue who say that it is really, really difficult to lift the burden of proof, because now you also have to make medical statements and testimonies and all these things. And then there are the replacement levels, as the Minister said at the conciliation meeting was 40 000 kroner. Actually, they don't. They're not 40,000 kroner. On average they are 25,000 kroner. That is why I have called this in the hope that we could at least make a joint decision that we would like to have an action plan, and then we can try to put forward what such an action plan might contain. There I have mentioned something about compensation, about legislation, about burden of proof and a number of other things. So I hope for it and look forward to hearing the debate and, of course, I hope we will agree. That would be the best result.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181252	Then I would remind the rapporteur to read out the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181300	Yes, I read this straight: Suggested adoption The parties of the Danish Parliament agree that everyone should be able to go to work without being subjected to sexual harassment. In order to eliminate sexual harassment and find the most effective means to prevent and combat sexual harassment, there is a need to know the extent and nature of the sexual harassment suffered by Danish workers. A first step has been taken by the government with an agreement with the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten to allocate 2 million. kr. from the Prevention Fund to inform jobs about sexual harassment. Against this background, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to launch a survey of sexual harassment in the Danish labour market with a view to presenting an action plan to prevent and combat sexual harassment by the end of 2015. Parliament calls on the government to include the level of compensation in court proceedings on sexual harassment and recognition of sexual harassment as occupational injuries in the mapping and action plan. V 36). These are very modest demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181355	Then I just have to ask if it is right understood that it is on behalf of both SF and Enhedslisten. Özlem Sara Cekic Yes). Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we'll go over to the next speaker, sir. Peter Juel Jensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181422	Thank you. I would like to start by signing off on the fact that this question has been raised. And let me say straight away: no one is going to get sick from going to work. The legislation is clear: the working environment must be in order, both the physical and the psychological working environment. Last week we had a debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly on the working environment, and we were able to see together that the objectives of the 2020 strategy are being maintained. Of course, we all want no one to get sick from going to work, but unfortunately we also have to note that we are not yet in the target but the framework has been set. The objectives are ambitious and are binding on all those who have the opportunity to help ensure a better working environment. The challenge we are dealing with today comes under the category of bullying and sexual harassment, and let me make it clear that these two categories are very much affecting the psychological working environment. What may be meant as a joke or a bold remark may have fatal consequences, and we should not accept that. The government has put forward a proposal for adoption, and we support that in the Left. My Socialist colleague will come forward with the proposal for adoption later in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181544	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. The first comment is from Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181552	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. What really puzzles me is that sir... Peter Juel Jensen says that it is progressing on the objectives of the working environment. But now we are talking about sexual harassment; it is part of the psychological work environment and the psychological work environment has gone the wrong way. What does Mr. Peter Juel Jensen that means when we talk about the target for 2020, where we have to cut by 20%. On the mentally overloaded? Then it is strange that things are going in the opposite direction. I would like to hear what the rapporteur will say about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181636	So, the figures we debated last week in Parliament showed a slight increase, that is correct; but a number of initiatives have been taken since then, and that is why we had a common understanding last week that we were on the right track.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181653	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181654	New things have come out when we talk about the psychological work environment and sexual harassment. What are some new things that have emerged since we negotiated the question on the working environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181711	After all, the debate last week showed that some initiatives had been taken. More attention had also been paid to it. There were some BARs involved in making some material, etc., and these were the things that we agreed together last week were a way to ensure that we had fewer psychological injuries in the future. Then we are also currently negotiating a new strategy for the working environment, and there this will also play a major role. So all in all, we were confident last week. I agree with the rapporteur that this is not good enough, but let us now see whether the initiatives we are launching together cannot help to stem the problems we are dealing with here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181752	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181756	I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. The rapporteur mentions some debates and that Enhedslisten and SF have received 2 million. kr. in another debate. And there is such a little ambiguity about whether or not it also contains sexual harassment, and there are, for example, initiatives that are being mentioned. a hotline that takes one-two calls a week. I would not call that a success criterion, but it may be that of the Left. I would like to hear: why is it such a bad idea to have an action plan bringing together these initiatives? Why is it that the Left has something against it? Why is this a bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181833	I didn't say it was a bad idea. And I am incredibly sorry that the rapporteur's party is not part of the health and safety negotiations currently taking place. There we sit and talk about both the physical working environment, but also the psychic that this comes under. So it might be that the rapporteur should join the negotiations and then take it from there because there is, in fact, a broad majority in the Folketing who agree on that. And we are keen that we in Denmark get the best possible working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181903	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181905	There are some other reasons why we and Enhedslisten aren't here. But I would like to hear: does this mean that the rapporteur thinks that in the negotiating room in which they are in, one is thinking about how to draw up an action plan which brings together the initiatives? Because that sounds pretty positive, if that's what you're doing. What do you want to do besides mention it in a sentence and say that we should also remember sexual harassment? Are there some very specific things? Do we have to look at the levels of compensation, the practice of the courts, the burden of proof, the length of these trials? Is that what you do? Or what kind of thoughts are you thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324181954	Yes, see, the rapporteur would have had an opportunity to know this if the rapporteur would join the negotiations and take responsibility. What I have great expectations of is that we will have far more integration of the parties. Because we've made a law in here that says that the psychological work environment must be okay. We have made a law in here that makes there is attention on the working environment in general and the responsibility is very, very clear. What I have high expectations of is that we involve the parties much more, in other words ensuring that the parties have an opportunity to help ensure that the working environment improves. The BARs will have a more prominent role. And then I will not lift the veil further for the negotiations that are going on at the moment. I just think it is a pity that such a matter can be taken into the Chamber, but when we sit and negotiate and have to take responsibility, the rapporteur's party is gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182048	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. The next speaker is Mr. Jacob Lund of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182101	Thank you for the floor. I should like to begin by pointing out that, in addition to the fact that I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I am also doing so on behalf of the radical rapporteur. I will start by signing that SF has highlighted a very important issue, and let me make it quite clear: sexual harassment at work is completely unacceptable. In Denmark we have a tradition of a good working environment, and we must stick to it and develop it. We need to be able to go to work safely every day. That is why, here in Christiansborg, where we have a political responsibility to prevent sexual harassment, we must address the issue. And outside these walls, we all have to take co-responsibility from colleagues and employers and distance ourselves from sexual harassment. I really think that the Minister has explained very well both the scope and the rules of the area, and here I think it is important to note that sexual harassment is, of course, a criminal offence and that it must, of course, continue to be so. In general, the government has a strong focus on health and safety at work, and mental health and safety at work has been part of the work, among other things. in the context of the 2020 strategy. And it's really important. The Social Democrats want to help focus on a good psychological working environment and that this is necessary for a good workplace. In addition, the Minister has also explained a number of the initiatives that the government has put in place to ensure a better psychological working environment, and here I think it is important to note that we in this Chamber recently adopted a legislative proposal on the prevention of violence, threats and harassment outside working hours. It is not necessarily an easy subject to address at a workplace where sexual harassment is taking place, and therefore it is also very good to be able to help break down taboos and provide some tools to deal with the problems of sexual harassment in a workplace in a proper way. In addition, we must also sign for ongoing efforts to combat sexual harassment in the workplace with a comprehensive information campaign, conferences and various guidance material. As a Social Democrat, I am very, very strongly concerned that Danish workers have proper working conditions and including a proper working environment. That is why sexual harassment at Danish workplaces is, of course, totally unacceptable, as I said at the outset. This must and must be maintained in the future, and we must keep a constant watch on developments in this area. Against this background, on behalf of the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative and Radical Left, I should like to read the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that it should be safe, safe and healthy to go to work. The rules governing the working environment are clear and no employee should be subjected to sexual harassment. A majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, i.e. V, S, DF, KF and RV, agreed in 2011 on a strategy for health and safety at work by 2020. One of the priority areas of the strategy is mental health and safety, including sexual harassment. Parliament notes that a number of initiatives have been taken to improve the mental working environment, including the prevention of sexual harassment, e.g. An amendment to the Working Conditions Act to prevent work-related violence, threats and harassment outside working hours has been adopted, the specific supervisory activities of the Labour Inspectorate aimed at mental health and safety have been extended and a hotline on bullying and sexual harassment has been established. The Ministry of Employment is following developments in the proportion of women and men subjected to sexual harassment in the workplace and the Ministry of Social Affairs will generally focus on sexual harassment in the public domain. • V 34).
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182502	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182506	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur. I am told that the Social Democrats have set a 2020 objective together with the previous government and together with the Radicals. I just want to ask what has been done to achieve the target of the 2020 plan when we talk about sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182538	I must then admit that I am not the one who has sat and negotiated this and participated in the work and been a part of it. I am a bit of a substitute for the work that has been done, so I have to admit that I do not know the strategy itself. So I apologise for not being able to answer the question adequately.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182555	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182557	In addition to this, and in connection with the 2020 plan, I would like to say that so far the psychological working environment has gone the wrong way. Could the rapporteur not say why they do not want to make a plan of action when it comes to sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182620	We would also like to be involved in drawing up a plan of action. In this way, we have drawn up a plan of action in the strategy that I have at least understood. I think we should follow it, and we are a large group of people who have worked together on it. So we are following the work that has been done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182634	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182638	This is a little interesting, because the rapporteur starts by saying that he cannot respond adequately to the 2020 plan, as the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten asks what has been done to achieve it. He doesn't know about that, because he hasn't negotiated it. Afterwards, the rapporteur for the Socialist Group says: well, I see this as an action plan. We are discussing whether there should be an action plan in relation to sexual harassment. And what the government has done in relation to the 2020 plan is not an action plan. That is where the big difference is, i.e. whether to go in and say: we must try to gather various issues in order to come up with a paper on how an action plan might look. It is quite conscious that we have not put the substance in that we have not said that it should be that and that and that. I have mentioned some of the elements of my speech, but it is actually entirely up to the government to decide and say: an action plan could contain some legal things and something in terms of compensation and something in relation to witnesses. This could be done, and so I would like to ask: why does one not want an action plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182747	But we are following the strategy. There are ongoing negotiations in the conciliation circle about this, and SF and Enhedslisten are absolutely welcome to participate if they want to take the co-responsibility that lies in the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182801	Then it's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182804	Now I would like to know whether the Socialists themselves take responsibility. That is why I am asking the question. Now you are in those negotiations, and I would like to hear: is this something that the Socialists are going to propose for the negotiations, namely that you want an action plan? Then you could have all the credit yourself. I do not give a damn about that, as long as an action plan is drawn up, so I would like to ask: is this something that the Socialists are fighting for in the negotiations? Is that part of the paper from the government? Do you want an action plan or do you not want an action plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182834	There is at least one thing that is certain: we want to prevent sexual harassment in any case in all possible ways. We must ensure a good working environment for all workers on the labour market, both within and outside working hours. And sexual harassment is not acceptable under any circumstances. One case is too much, and that's all we have to say about this. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182857	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324182904	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the Socialist People's Party for raising this question debate, because I think it is actually an important issue. I have also been contacted by 3F, who has been running some posts on sexual harassment, and I have to admit that I just at first thought: Honestly! I mean, what's it like now if you're a little squeaky and a little clever in the remark, you're usually saying that when people are over 40, it's a staff benefit. You can laugh here because it was a joke. But then, when you start to think about what sexual harassment is, I also think it is important to take it very seriously, because I think those who are exposed to it are feeling very bad. In fact, I do not think it is very pleasant, and I must honestly admit that there are also some things that I have become much more aware of, in that we are debating it, because what is sexual harassment? What is it anyway? After all, it is not a secret that I married another member of parliament six months ago, sir. Kim Christiansen. Why is it that when we walk around the Folketing, there are many people who, when we say hello, also want to put a hand on my shoulder and explain how things stand and now I move my hand while nobody does it to my husband. What is it? Am I especially much dumber than him? Do I have to have things explained differently? What is it? Now it's a little bit personal what I bring, but I actually think it's something to think about when we move around like that, because sexual harassment can be so many things for the different people. I usually can tilt people off the stick if I think things are going to be too much, but I think it's worth thinking about, because there may be some who don't have it in them to say no or think that if they say no, they're also considered sloppy, or whatever to call it. So I think those who experience sexual harassment are feeling really bad. That is also why it is important that when we talk about working conditions, when we talk about people who go out to work and experience these things, we also help them to be able to quit and help them to learn how to deal with the problem. I think it is quite difficult to legislate out of it, in order to legislate on how people should behave towards each other, is very difficult. It is a question of pli, it is a question of how we behave towards each other and also sometimes a question of understanding each other's signals. Because it is equally important to understand: here and no longer. That's important, isn't it? And that's exactly what you have to do when you have to deal with sexual harassment. I think it is good that the Danish People's Party is part of the agreement on mental health and safety at work. I think it's important to do something about it, and I think it's important to try to get these 3%, as it's been for many years, down. It's important. But I also think it's good to focus on this from the platform, because I think there are many of us who haven't really thought about it very much. We have a culture of hugs in Denmark, one can say, if nothing else. We're practically hugging God and every man, but it's not certain that everyone likes it. We just take it for granted. And if you don't, you're a little weird. It's actually kind of weird to think about. So, yes, I hardly know what else to say. I think it is a good thing that the Socialist People's Party has raised this question, and I think it is good that we are debating it. I very much hope that by focusing on it, by looking at it more, and perhaps also by drawing up an action plan on it, we can get something done about sexual harassment, because I do not really think it is right at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183323	Thank you. So there is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183328	It is a good thing that the rapporteur says that it is a joke that it can be a staff good when you are over 40, because I was wondering whether you should cry or you should laugh about such a remark when you talk about sexual harassment. This isn't about being hugged. We are talking about people who, day after day, are subjected to verbal abuse and about people who are taken all sorts of places on their bodies and who go down on it, so I also think that one should be careful in the language that one does not neglect it by talking about hugs, because that is not what it is about; nor is it about what kind of signals one sends. There is no doubt for a moment that what you are experiencing is not very pleasant. I need to ask you something. The Danish People's Party disagrees that we need an action plan, otherwise they would be in favour of our proposal for adoption. The rapporteur says in the 3F magazine that she thinks we should raise the levels of compensation. I would like to know whether this is the official position of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183431	I have said that quite clearly. I find it strange that the amounts of compensation that exist have been the same for 20 years. I think that is strange, and that is why I have also said what I have done. So I think you should look at that. Then may I just make a small comment about this neglecting it. Yeah, I brought you a joke. It was a bad joke, and I actually tried to express that. I am not really trying to neglect sexual harassment, but I also think that the rapporteur should understand that sexual harassment seems to me to be different to many different people, because is it degrading that when you stand as a man and talk to a woman, you have to snoop on your back? Is this sexual harassment? It doesn't have to be, we can agree on that, and there are also some who think this is quite okay. It's also quite okay to hug, but there are also some who don't like it and don't like it, but don't like to say away. Of course, it's sexual harassment if someone's patting you in the back. There's no doubt about it. There is no doubt at all, but the other can be harassment, and it can also be something that destroys the working environment in which you are. There may then be an implied sexual orientation in it or underlying sexual sense with it. I think I was a little clumsy, but I hope the rapporteur understands. In fact, that may well be the case, and that is what I was trying to point out, namely that there are many ways. So it's certainly not to neglect it on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183605	The second brief remark by Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183609	It is quite clear that there are different perceptions of what sexual harassment is, and that is probably why it is rare for anyone who is exposed to it to be in doubt. Often it's the person who exposes the person to sexual harassment that says that now you're a little spoiling the good mood. I think, in this case, you have to listen to the person who is exposed to it. But do I understand correctly that if we table a motion for a resolution here in the Assembly, which raises the levels of compensation, the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183644	That's always a good question. It certainly depends on how it is financed. Unless we are doing something else, which I have the feeling that you are in the Employment Committee, where you look at compensation amounts, because I am aware that this is something you are working on over there, I think, depending on what else the proposal is about. After all, the rapporteur has not said a fixed amount, but I certainly think that we should look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183712	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324183727	In fact, I think it is a good debate we have, because several rapporteurs have been up here saying that we should make an action plan, and I also think that ministers should listen to that debate; Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party says that we should also look at the compensation for those who are subjected to sexual harassment. If I look at what the majority will actually do or will not do in order to avoid sexual harassment in the workplace, and at the proposal for adoption tabled by the majority, which says that no one should be subjected to sexual harassment, then that sounds like a good objective. But what do they do about it? Both when I look at the current government and, above all, the previous government, I think that far too little is being done about this problem, which is huge for those who are being harassed. The studies carried out by the trade unions HK, 3F and FOA, which organize many women, show that the problem of sexual harassment has actually increased in recent years. The new EU report, which includes 42,000 women from 28 EU countries, shows that 37 per cent of women are women. of Danish women have experienced a form of sexual harassment in the past year, and the report shows that 40%. Danish women have experienced physical or sexual violence against them since they were 15 years old by someone who was not their partner. This actually gives a dull first place in statistics; at the same time, 4 out of 5 Danish women have experienced sexual harassment since they were 15 years old. Only Sweden is higher with an 81% share. of the women. Unfortunately, these figures give a hint that the problem is greater than the majority's proposal for adoption. After all, they say that sexual harassment is part of the psychological working environment that they claim to be part of the objectives towards 2020. However, as we all know, a mid-term review shows that combating mental health and safety problems has gone the wrong way, so even if they have objectives, they do not have the means to solve the problem. We must remember that the objective is that there should be 20%. less mentally overloaded, but at the same time the figure has increased when it comes to mentally overloaded in recent years. According to the majority's proposal for adoption, it is considered that it is good enough for both the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Gender Equality to follow developments. Actually, I think it's thin. After all, we know that many women are being pushed out of the labour market because of sexual harassment and, above all, that this is happening to too many women who start work in the so-called men's professions. This is about a major problem for equality between men and women. I believe that we need an action plan to combat sexual harassment both at and outside the workplace. A first tiny step happens when we have made an agreement with the government and SF about an effort to obtain better knowledge of how to prevent and deal with the problem of sexual harassment. We've spent $2 million. kr. from the Prevention Fund to this, and I do not think that is enough. Of course, we must keep in mind whether this is developing further and I am in favour of extending the sanctions for employers who are closing their eyes or doing worse, namely that they themselves are using sexual harassment against their employees. Finally, I would like to quote gender researcher Anette Borchorst, professor at Aalborg University, who says the following: "We lack concrete knowledge of where sexual harassment is taking place. But from what I hear, there are particular problems at work. So I am not surprised at what the trade unions are experiencing, says Professor from Aalborg University. So, of course, I'm saying something has to be done to combat sexual harassment. The individual suffers, and too many are slipping out of the labour market with wounds on their souls.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184135	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Then we have Mrs Merete Riisager as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184152	When you raise a debate like this on such an important subject, it is also important to be clear what exactly you want to achieve and how you think about going to this topic. What are we missing? Is it knowledge, research, statistics, legislation, guidance? And then it is also important to try to define the concept of sexual harassment. What is sexual harassment? How do you understand that concept? In the Liberal Alliance, we understand this as abuse, threats, overstepping personal borders. This is a very serious issue which the SF has addressed here and which is important, as the rapporteur also points out, for those who are exposed to it and who have crossed their personal borders. This is also a subject to be expected to be addressed by the social partners. It is an issue that is extremely difficult to control and regulate in here from Castle, it is the individual employer who must take action if there is abuse in the workplace. SF is a party that addresses social problems, which also lies, you might say, outside the legislation, and these are important issues. Sexual harassment is an important issue, bullying, with which SF also works very hard, is an important issue, and it is also very good to have a discussion about it, because it is also our understanding of what changes in real terms. But it is also important to recognise that when it comes to the relationship between people, empathy, responsibility, orderlyness, we cannot legislate completely in relation to people always. This does not mean that we should not do anything, but it means that we must be absolutely clear what we have to do in here from the Folketing and what we have to do in the workplace and what responsibility lies between people. Because we sometimes fall short; we cannot, unfortunately, regulate ourselves to decency and orderlyness in all life's relationships, although we would like to. And this is something that we in the Liberal Alliance are taking with us. Personal responsibility fills something, it must fill something, so it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184447	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184453	Thank you for recognising that it is important to take such a debate and that words can also help to shift reality out there. The reason I am taking the floor is because the rapporteur says that this cannot be done by legislation alone, and I fully agree with that. Legislation can not only shift attitudes, but legislation often pushes attitudes and changes attitudes it cannot do it alone, but it has a meaning. That is also why I would like to ask whether, in relation to this particular part of it, it is not correct that if you have to do something about the levels of compensation, it requires legislation. If you are going to go in and look in concrete terms at whether it is the workplace that has to be accountable, then it requires legislation. So there are also some things that we need to do through legislation and that we cannot talk ourselves out of alone. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184553	That may be very correct, but now the SF has not put forward quite specific proposals for amendments to take place. So it could be exciting if at some point the SF tabled a motion for a resolution on what the SF believes should actually happen in terms of legislation. I would say that the issue we are dealing with today is an issue which must be resolved primarily by the social partners. That doesn't mean it's less important... it's very important... but it means that in here we have a limit on how we can regulate the orderlyness and decency that must be between people employed at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184629	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184631	It was quite conscious that we did not tell you exactly what was to be in the action plan, because we thought that the social partners, together with the ministries, together with the professionals, could sit together with the experts and tell us where it would do the most good in terms of an action plan. I myself have made some suggestions as to where it might be, and if we had done so, the Liberal Alliance would say: now it will be too concrete; that, that and that we cannot be involved in. For example: demands legislation on levels of compensation, so it is not only a question of whether the social partners can find out, but that we also provide a framework from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184711	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184713	It is also quite true that the SF and the Liberal Alliance certainly want completely different legislative frameworks. So we also believe that this is about the initiative where should the initiative come from? And it must also be said that the social partners have a responsibility and a right of initiative in relation to this, in relation to solving these problems, in relation to also describing what it should be. And I think that Christiansborg should be careful not to force things with which we are not in primary contact. The social partners have a responsibility here, and I expect any initiatives to come from them too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184749	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next speaker is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324184757	Thank you. This mental work environment as such, including sexual harassment, which is what we are specifically dealing with today, is one of the things that it is right to have both in the regulatory framework and in the general debate on good working conditions. For us, it is very important that the psychological working environment, including sexual harassment, is included in the overall strategy in the field of health and safety at work. It is also a priority area in the strategy for 2020, which we, the Conservatives, are part of with the agreement reached in 2011. Not so long ago, we have discussed this, as others have also mentioned, with the goals we have set for 2020 and how things are going. In general terms, in the field of health and safety at work, the trend is in the right direction, as others have also mentioned, but exactly in relation to mental health and safety problems there is a slightly increasing trend. It is very early to say very precisely what it covers, why it is there and what necessarily needs to be done to change it, but one of the things that one could at least get the feeling has a significance • now that the overall work environment effort is going in the right direction, while exactly in this area it doesn't seem to be doing that is that one should probably not be blind to the fact that it has fortunately become more comfortable to address psychological health and safety problems. It has become more and more recognized as such in our societies that mental illness is just as important and is just as important to people's health as physical. Unfortunately, in many areas, including health care, we have to call it taboo, but fortunately we are getting beyond that, and it can therefore also be imagined that some of the statistics cover up the fact that some of the problems that may not have arisen before actually do so now. Of course, it is really, really important that we keep an eye on whether this is the case or whether there are other reasons for the difference seen in statistics, but basically it is important to have a slightly more valid statistics over a slightly longer period of time before we really say too much about those figures. What we can do in the meantime is continue to focus on improving the tools to ensure a good working environment. This is, as others have also mentioned, one of the things we sit in the conciliation circle on the working environment right now discussing in a long area of the health and safety field, including the psychological working environment and sexual harassment. For us, it is important to look at it together, and therefore to the discussion about a specific action plan in this particular area, I might as well say from the outset that for us it is about seeing sexual harassment as part of the psychological working environment and thus also taking care of it as part of the psychological working environment, also because there are a lot of areas between something that can be sexual harassment and something that can otherwise be a bad psychological work environment, so that you can get into an evil spiral, where sexual harassment is just part of what you are exposed to. That's why it's really important to look at a concerted effort in this area. It is, of course, the case in the labour market that we generally have a model that makes it the social partners who take care of a very large part of the area. Exactly in relation to the working environment, we legislate more precisely than we do in many other areas, but still in a way in which we very much involve the parties in the reflections, the discussions that are being done and before we do the legislative process. And this is an area where it is of no use that we just so thank you from here for now having the debate, but also maintaining that it is important to take this topic into the overall overall picture of the overall work environment and not just look at it in isolation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185304	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185315	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate. I believe that it was Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic who initially referred to some websites, and then you will be fully aware that sexual harassment is something that can have and also has quite serious consequences. I do not think anyone is in any doubt about that, and it can therefore be said that there are several links where you have to work on this issue, and I suppose the debate has shown that. There is the fact that we, as legislators, have a responsibility that is about the responsibility that you assume as an employee in a company, that you focus on these things, and then there's the thing about having the courage to take these debates. The word action plan has filled relatively much in the debate. Of course, it is rather a temperament issue whether there is an action plan or there is no action plan, but I actually think that I was initially trying to be very precise when it comes to saying that, when it comes to sexual harassment and the supervision that we have from the Labour Inspectorate, it is not just a coincidence, but that the follow-up that is when you encounter it here is very precise, with the instructions and the way it should be handled, with the removal of smiley schemes, etc. etc. So it is actually taken quite seriously. And also some of the measures that we, among others, have taken. together with SF and Enhedslisten have got it done there with the 2 million. kr. lately, it shows that it is in a process. Then I admit that the figure of 3%. We have not really moved, and that is why we should continue to pay attention to it, and we are doing so, among other things. with a debate like this today, but also with concrete measures. I can only welcome the fact that, in the relatively short time I have been responsible as Minister for Employment, we have been able to focus on this through some rounds and have also been able to take some concrete decisions. This will also be needed in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185532	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185537	Thank you for the debate. I'd like to hear something, and I understand what it's like. It is said by the government that there are now these negotiations, and I look forward to seeing all the good results we're going to achieve with this; it's going to be fantastic. But I would like to know what the Minister's position is on this. When someone gets sexually harassed, you can go after whoever's been sexually harassed. What is the Minister's view that you can now go after the workplace so that you can also carry out supervision in this way? So, does the Minister think that this is a good idea, or does the Minister think that we should continue to have what we have today? That is one question. The second question is in relation to levels of compensation. Does the Minister think that there is a need to look at the levels of compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185624	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185627	I am not sure that Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic will have to expect so much concrete from the negotiations that we are having on exactly this area, but more generally than that we will continue to ensure a good working environment in Denmark. Perhaps I did not understand the middle question, because it is actually the case that when the Factory Inspectorate comes out, it is the company that has a responsibility in this area. It is also the company that is required to ensure that there is an advisory process if there has been sexual harassment, and it is the company that loses its smiley scheme. So the company is very much at the centre of this. Then, as far as compensation is concerned, I would like to say that it is quite specific that we in Denmark have a good tradition of what I welcome, and I also think that we should maintain it in this area • that it is essentially the courts that decide this kind of thing. I do not think it is wise that, no matter how sympathetic one might think it was, we should take out an area and say that here we legislate in relation to it. I really like the fact that we're three-waying power in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185738	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185741	The Minister says that nothing quite concrete should now be expected in relation to this. I would like to hear: what is the government's proposal? Well, what does the government think should be done? Because the government recognizes that this is a problem. The government says it is a high figure and also recognises the figures, i.e. 60 000 people who have been subjected to sexual harassment in the labour market in the last 12 months. That's a really, really high figure, and I'm really glad the government recognises that. But what does the government think should be done? And now I'm not talking about negotiations, but it's just what the government's attitude is in terms of what you can do. It might be interesting to hear a little about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185818	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185820	I am, of course, sorry that this question is being asked, because we have been discussing this for a number of hours now, and we are two ministers who have been on the platform. In any case, I heard myself being very analytical and precise about it, and I actually heard my colleague be it, and I have heard rapporteurs be it, and it is of course a pity that the rapporteur then asks that question. In fact, I think that, apart from the fact that we have had a debate which has been about attitudes and principles, we have also been precise. At least I tried to be so in my speech when we started the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185852	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the Minister for Children and Gender Integration and Social Conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324185903	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank you again for the floor and, in fact, also for a very, very good debate. I fully agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that this has been an informative debate. This is an important agenda, which is why, in line with everyone else, I am very pleased that we are discussing this issue today. As both I and the Minister for Employment have said, sexual harassment is deeply unacceptable. This is true, regardless of whether it takes place in the workplace or in the S-train, on the bus or in the nightlife on the open street. The government has addressed a number of concrete initiatives in the labour market, as the Minister for Employment has also mentioned, and I hope that we will of course also focus on the issue in general outside the workplace, so that we can also raise awareness of the problem in everyday life. As many have said, this can help to change the attitude towards what is acceptable. It is one of the ways to ensure equal opportunities regardless of gender. This also requires that we should join forces to refrain from sexual harassment and everyday sexism. That, of course, was also the call I made in my first speech, and of course I will also make it again. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190026	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190032	In fact, just before the Minister for Employment, I asked about the very concrete initiatives that the government believes are important in terms of getting rid of this. Then the Minister for Employment said that he had spent a very long time explaining that. In other words, both the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Gender Equality have said a great deal that it is unacceptable that we should do something about this, that we must fight against it, that we must prevent it. These are things I only agree with, but what I am asking about and now I am trying to do with the Minister for Gender Equality is: what is to be done specifically? What kind of initiatives are you working on? What is the government's proposal? Because what I see in your statement is that the Minister of Social Affairs will generally focus on sexual harassment in public space. So, what is to be done in concrete terms? Isn't there just one thing you could suggest?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190124	I can understand the Minister for Employment's answer, because the Minister for Employment actually explained it, as I did, and now I am doing it again quite specifically. What I want to do quite specifically, to answer it again, is to start an investigation. In fact, I mentioned that in my opening speech. I also put it high on the agenda when we take over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, which means that we will, of course, go through it, discuss it and recommend some solutions. So that's what I'm gonna do quite specifically from my chair off.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190206	Then it's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190209	I do not think we should underestimate the fact that it will of course help when the Minister talks about it, and the Minister must continue to do so. So you're going to do a study to map it out, and that's fine, but what are you going to do to fight it? That's what I keep asking. So, are there any specific initiatives where they say: okay, now you're gonna hear, the process is too long, and there's a problem with the testimonies? There are several lawyers who have been on the field and have asked: can you do something where you like to demand that the witness enter? Or you could say that the compensations were too low. There's a lot of things you can do. That is why I ask what you want to do in concrete terms, in addition to talking about it and mapping it out. Are there any other initiatives that will also be undertaken with the social partners? What will be done by the government? Because now I understand that you do not want to touch the legislation at all, but what else will you do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190259	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190301	The first question was what we would do. I have explained that first in my opening speech, and then I have done it again. Then it is in the nature of things that when you do a study, you do it in order to become wiser in an area, so you have a solid knowledge base on which you can then make some decisions from then on. If you already knew which decisions you would actually make, then it would not make any sense to have an investigation carried out. The study is done in such a way that you can become wiser and, in all humility, also learn more about this subject so that you can make some decisions again. It's basically very simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190339	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. I shall then hear whether the rapporteur for the questioners wishes to speak. 'Cause, yeah, you can round it up. The rapporteur for the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190400	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the debate and, above all, thank you for the fact that all parties think this is a problem and that all parties agree that something needs to be done. We do not entirely agree on what needs to be done, but basically there is also recognition by the ministers of the fact that there is, in fact, that there is something very positive. Then I would like to thank Enhedslisten for wanting to contribute to a plan of action. Because I think that's actually the way to go. But I also hear that there are negotiations in this area, and I look forward very much to seeing the very good results of that which I have no doubt for a moment that the government will launch. Because now you've talked a lot about what you're gonna do. Every time we have asked questions, we have been told that there were negotiations and that all sorts of things were on the way. So it will only be positive in relation to the matter. And I will also promise that I will keep an eye on what will then be decided, because then we will have a new debate here. I would just like to conclude by saying that I will contact the Committee on Gender Equality to see if we cannot hold a hearing on sexual harassment, so that we can sort out the issues that exist and that lawyers are working on in relation to the level of compensation, in relation to witness statements, in relation to the course of proceedings and all sorts of other things, so that we can have some concrete suggestions as to what we can do. But thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190536	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 26 March 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150324190557	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 25 March 2015, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
