ParlaMint-DK_20150116100003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100016	The debate is open. Sir. Martin Geertsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100028	Thank you. It is quite excellent that the government is now finally getting its act together, if I may say so, to take initiatives to combat radicalisation on Danish soil. But the picture remains that this bill is too little, it is too late, and it is too unambitious because the bill hits too few potential terrorists; too unambitious, because the penalties in the government's proposal are simply too low if you want to prevent young people from leaving Denmark and fighting on the side of Islamic State; and too late because the reality out there has been knocking on the door of the government for a long time without having dared to open their eyes and face reality. That is why we will be tabling amendments to the government's proposal. Our proposal, if adopted, will make the final legislative changes more than a little, will correct the fact that the government has put forward the proposal too late and will finally make it more ambitious. We will make it easier for the prosecution to prosecute people who have resided in the terrorist zones in Iraq and Syria, and we will punish them more severely than the government is proposing. We are proposing a ban on entry to areas in the world where there is a risk that expatriates from Denmark will return radicalised to the country with skills that enable them to carry out terrorist attacks. Specifically, on the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, PET and Defence Intelligence, the Minister of Justice must establish a list of the countries and areas covered by the ban. It must be a condition that there are widespread acts of war or terrorist activity in the areas. All Danes wishing to travel to the countries and areas listed must apply for permission to do so in the Ministry of Justice. If the journey is for what can be called a worthy purpose, then of course permission is granted, and if there is no authorisation or no application and there is still a journey to the areas concerned, it must be possible to impose a sentence of up to six years in prison. Of course, when a decision is made to include an area or country on the list, it must be clearly communicated to the public. Parliament must also be given the opportunity to remove areas or countries from the list, irrespective of the decision taken by the authorities. The same applies in and for foreigners staying in Denmark who wish to travel to designated areas. According to our proposal, they must apply for permission in the Ministry of Justice to assess the purpose of the journey. If the journey is for a purpose worthy of recognition, then of course permission is granted. However, if you travel as a foreigner resident in Denmark to the areas concerned without prior authorisation, you automatically lose your residence permit. This would mean that those concerned no longer have the right to enter and reside in Denmark. Of course, those concerned can apply for the return of the residence permit, but this will only be possible if there are exceptional mitigating circumstances. With this amendment we are doing three things. We're hitting the potential threats to Danes security that fly under government radar. We are correcting the fact that the government has come too late to face the problems and we are punishing more than the government is proposing by replacing the possibility of a fine with a penalty of up to six years in prison for stay in terrorist zones without prior authority approval. The other day, the Prime Minister of the country in Parliament's Question Time said that the government is open to proposals from the bourgeois parties. We hope that the Minister for Justice has listened to the Prime Minister and will ultimately include our amendments as part of the final legislative changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100443	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100447	Thank you. It could have been interesting to hear the Left's position on the bill that we are discussing here in Parliament today. I understand that it will not be today that we hear the position of the Left on it. But I just need to hear something: does this mean that the Left will vote against the tightening that we are discussing today if the proposed amendments are not adopted in the context of this legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100516	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100518	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100519	Is that something that should be understood in the sense that the Left will vote against the austerity of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100526	Yes, that was the question that Mrs Trine Bramsen asked me, and to that there is nothing but either to answer yes or no or yes. And, of course, one must be understood in the sense that, whether or not we adopt our amendments, we will of course vote in favour of the draft law put forward by the Minister for Justice here. However, we think that Mrs Trine Bramsen and her Minister of Justice would do well to listen to the bourgeois parties. For the truth is that with the proposal that the government has put forward here, we risk that some people, some potential terrorists, are flying under the radar of the authorities. And this bill hasn't taken that into account. Even if they have their passports removed or if they have their passports and leave, we risk a situation in which, unless you can lift a burden of proof that they have committed terrorism, they come back to Denmark radicalised. Our amendments take this into account. And I hope that Mrs Trine Bramsen and her Minister for Justice will listen to the very, very wise statements made by the Prime Minister of the country the other day that we will be listening positively to the amendments tabled by the bourgeois parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100635	Mrs Pernille Skippe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100638	Thank you. I have to admit that I may have a little difficulty fully understanding how the mechanism of the Left's proposal is different from that of the legislative proposal we are dealing with now. So maybe just to make it a little less technical, I'd like to ask Mr. Martin Geertsen, that a lack of permission will prevent people who have decided to sacrifice their lives for something as crazy as the organisation of the Islamic State, which commits rape and decapitation and ethnic cleansing, from leaving? Thinks sir. Martin Geertsen, that the people who have decided to support such an organization actively and even violently will sit down and say: Well, I was not allowed to do that, so may I stay home?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100734	In fact, I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper should try to put these two proposals to each other and then ask herself what is actually the most logical thing when it comes to the matter: is it trying to keep terrorists inside the country, or is it trying to keep terrorists away from Denmark? In fact, it can be said that what the Left and the other bourgeois parties are proposing is far less intrusive than ordinary freedoms. What we are saying here is that if you have left the country, you as a Danish citizen can actually come back, but then you risk a prison sentence of 6 years, and if you have a residence permit, you lose it. But it might be interesting to hear Mrs Pernille Skippe about what is really the most logical thing in Mrs Pernille Skipper's head: is it to keep the terrorists in this country, or is it to make sure that they do not enter once they have left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100826	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100828	Now I don't want to have shot in my shoes, that I've said something is more logical than anything else. On the contrary, I think that when we come to discuss the legislative proposal that is actually on the programme, I also have some concerns about it, but it is because I care about legal certainty, and others do not. So it's okay. Now I am asking about the Left's proposal, because we can of course adopt a whole lot of legislation, and that may be more or less logical, but I think it could be clever if it were effective. So I'm gonna try it one more time. Martin Geertsen, that the proposal by the Left that people should have a permit to travel to Syria will mean that those who intend to join the Islamic State will actually apply for that permission and stay at home if they do not get it? Thinks sir. Martin Geertsen, that Mr. Martin Geertsen's threat of a withdrawn residence permit is more effective than the government's threat of withdrawal from his residence permit, or does Mr. Martin Geertsen maybe that people who are so crazy in the ball to use a layman's expression that they're going to take down and support the Islamic State, don't give a damn about your threats of imprisonment and fines?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116100940	If they are deeply radicalised on top of their heads, they will probably leave in plenty of cases anyway, whether the penalty is 6 or 16 years old to return. However, contrary to the government's proposals, we are doing two things: we are making it much easier for the prosecution to press charges against the people who have gone to Syria and Iraq to commit terrorism and where the burden of proof that they have committed terrorism is difficult to lift. It will be easier with our proposal. With our proposal there is also a long, much harder sanction, both against Danish citizens and people with a residence permit in this country, if they choose to return to the Danish border. Then we say to them: If you have committed terrorism or resided in the areas concerned and yet choose to return to Denmark, you as a Danish citizen risk a six-year sentence; if you have a residence permit in this country and choose to return despite the good advice and guidance of the authorities, you risk losing your residence permit. I can see from Mrs Pernille Skipper that she has finally understood what our amendments are all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101058	Mrs Lotte Rod for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101101	It can be read in the newspapers today that the Left is sorry that we have not got started on the prevention of radicalisation. I would therefore like to know whether this means that the Left would like to help set the prevention initiatives in motion as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101119-2	I can assure Mrs Lotte Rod that the Left is, I believe, along with the other bourgeois parties. That is why I am particularly surprised that since we left each other in the Ministry of Justice at the beginning of December, when I personally at least had the impression that we almost agreed on the prevention effort, nothing has happened. The bourgeois parties had some changes that we understood from the Minister of Justice that the Minister of Justice thus acknowledged and agreed. And what has happened since then? Nothing. We have not had any kind of invitations from the Minister of Justice to close that deal. That is why I, too, must say frankly, am strongly pricked by the fact that the Minister of Justice is trying to bring up a conflict that is not really there. Why on earth doesn't the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Integration invite us over so we can close this deal? We are very flexible in relation to dates, I have just confer with my bourgeois colleagues. You can just send an invitation, we're ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101222	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101224	Does this mean that the Left is ready for us to start the prevention effort? Because then we can do it right away. The only reason why nothing has happened is that the Left has taken it hostage in the other political negotiations. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to confirm: have we seen such an agreement on prevention? Because then it's just getting started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101250	We almost agreed when we left each other in the Ministry of Justice at the beginning of December, and since then we have heard nothing from the Minister of Justice, we have heard nothing from the Minister of Integration. One would think that this government was interested in closing an agreement on prevention, and I think that we were close. That is why I simply do not understand that the Minister for Justice, both today and during this week in general, has tried to bring up a conflict which is not really there. It seems to me that the Minister for Justice really wants to get the most out of it, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101327	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101330	I just have to ask whether it is a clear answer or a clear yes to the package that lies, because it is not my impression that a clear indication has been given that you are ready to take this package as it is. Some of what the Left's legal rapporteur said this morning was that there was still an outstanding issue around the hotline because the SF wanted it to be anchored in civil society. I know I bowed to that meeting and said: it is okay that it lies with an authority because it does so in other countries. So isn't it the Left that's out running up something that's not a problem at all? So if you think that package is good, I would say: let us get it adopted. We are here on a very serious background. An attack has just been averted in Belgium, and this is actually about Syrian warriors. We need these preventive measures burning down. I simply think that we should get out of the pits and say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101427	Well, this is totally grotesque. Well, I have to say in good Danish that it's crazy crazy. Of course, the bourgeois parties have some views on the prevention package presented by the government. We discussed this at two meetings. We have among other things. indicated that some of it, to put it in good Danish, was slightly long-haired. The Minister for Justice acknowledged this at the meetings we have been to, and so we simply do not understand that the Minister for Justice has not invited us to any new meetings, as we at least thought that we were close to achieving this. Why didn't the Justice Minister invite us to those meetings so we could close that deal? That's grotesque!
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101505	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101507	But if it is not true that we wanted to link the negotiations on the soft initiatives in the pool with the bill we are discussing today, because we wanted some tightening and that the two things basically have nothing to do with each other. Both are part of the overall action plan, but the other should be clarified in the pool negotiations. Is it not true that that is why we have been blocking the progress of the soft measures and that this is why it has been messing with us for so long? Now we see, unfortunately, that these things have been delayed and that young people have been able to become more radical in the meantime. I think that is an unfortunate signal to send.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101550-2	Does Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt know what has delayed this question? It is that the Minister of Justice has been sitting on his hands since the beginning of December. After all, it is the Minister for Justice's responsibility that negotiations should be invited. Yes, I would say to the Minister for Justice, it is the Minister for Justice who sits at the end of the table and can invite negotiations to close both the one and, for that matter, the other. So it is simply not right, when it is more than suggested both in the newspapers today and here in the Chamber, that we should block anything at all. The Minister of Justice has not invited us to any kind of meetings, either to close one or the other, and that is what is at the heart of this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101634	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116101643	The terrorist threat exists and it is serious. This was far too tragically documented last week in France. Unfortunately, the threat of terrorism is neither new in Denmark nor in the rest of the world. Unfortunately, it is not new that extremists, with their evil and hatred, are trying to kill and destroy, and that is why we must do everything in our power to prevent the evil and undemocratic forces from succeeding in their unsympathetic actions. And above all, we must do everything we can to stop recruitment to the extremist environments. With the bill that we are discussing here today, we will ensure that the authorities are given new tools to better deal with those who want to join the holy war. This is necessary if we are to put an additional stop to the exits we have unfortunately seen to countries where extremist groups are fighting. The draft law we are discussing today is aimed both at Danish citizens and resident foreigners, as we see examples of both groups leaving. In relation to Danish citizens, we will allow the police to withdraw passports or refuse to issue passports if there is reason to believe that a person will travel to Syria or Iraq, for example, to fight. The police will also be empowered to issue a so-called exit ban prohibiting a person from leaving Denmark for a specified period of time. It is proposed that a violation of an exit ban should be punishable by a fine or a prison sentence of up to two years. In order to ensure compliance with Denmark's international obligations, it is proposed that, in specific cases, the police may allow specific travel, and it is proposed that there should be a particularly lenient access to refer the decisions of the police to the courts. In the case of foreigners living in Denmark and participating in holy war, the bill here proposes to amend the Aliens Act so that a residence permit or right of residence can be withdrawn. However, as we have also had the opportunity to discuss on several occasions here in Parliament and outside, this bill cannot stand alone. We must focus on all aspects of the radicalised and extremist environments. In the action plan presented in September, several of which have already been implemented, we have a central focus on prevention. We know, of course, that the sooner you get hold of the young people who are on the border of radicalised environments, the better the chances of getting them back on track. That is why the effort is massively strengthened, not least with a focus on social media, where we know that much of the recruitment is going on. Moreover, monitoring the environment, focusing on prosecution and rehabilitation are also key elements of the action plan. Unfortunately, there is no solution to this serious problem. If there was, there should be no doubt that it had long been introduced, and I hope that all the parties here in the Danish Parliament will agree on this. As politicians in this Parliament, we are responsible for ensuring that the toolbox of the authorities contains tools that can be used, depending on who the radicalised are and how far they are. With this bill, we are supplementing the toolbox with another tool to prevent extremists from successfully living their evils. With those words, we Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102028	There are three brief comments. First, it's from sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102032	Thank you. I want to concentrate on the punishment that the government is imposing for breaking the law. Penalty or imprisonment of up to two years shall be imposed. The people we are talking about are potential terrorists; we are dealing with people like those who were killed in Belgium the other day. Does the government think that 2 years of prison is hard in this regard? Does the government think this is a harsh punishment? Does the government think it is high compared to what we punish for in other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102113	What we have to bear in mind is that this is the only penalty for leaving. This is not the punishment for having participated in acts of terrorism, for example; there is a very high penalty which will, of course, supplement the penalty for leaving. This is simply a criminal framework for travelling out of Denmark. But it is clear that if it is a cardinal point for the Left that the penalty is raised, let us discuss it. You just have to remember that this alone is the penalty for leaving. It is not for having participated in holy war, it is a much higher penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102142	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102144	I'm not a complete idiot. I know. Of course, there is a difference between defying an exit ban and committing terrorism and killing other people, and, of course, the penalty framework must also be different. That's also why I used the words potential terrorists. And what we are talking about here is a punishment for potential terrorists; people that we know are planning to go out and participate in a conflict in Syria that is planning to join enemies of Denmark. What I was asking was whether the government believes that two years' imprisonment in this context is a severe punishment. For the sake of comparison, let me mention some of the other legislative proposals that have come from the government during this period. The government believes that cartel formation, i.e. the fact that some companies come together and agree on prices, should be punished by six years in prison. The government believes that if you are dealing with the sale of drugs to athletes and bodybuilders, etc., it must be punished by six years of imprisonment, three times as high a penalty as the one that is being proposed for punishing potential terrorists. Does the government really think that it is appropriate for it to be proportionate?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102251	May I not repeat that this is merely a penalty for the journey itself. In addition, there is a much higher penalty for what you then commit on your journey. I mean, we have a massively higher penalty if you join these extremist organisations, so I don't think you can put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102312	Sir. Martin Henriksen, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102314	Thank you. I want to hear the position of the Socialists. We will probably also very likely be tabling amendments to this bill by the Danish People's Party. But will the Socialists be prepared to expand the possibilities of depriving people of their citizenship if they have been down fighting for the Islamic State? We have seen that things are going a little sluggishly, to put it mildly, by depriving people, for example. have been convicted of violation of the terrorist paragraphs, their Danish citizenship. Will the Socialists take a positive view of such an initiative? In fact, I would also like to ask about the amendment tabled by Mr Beazley on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). Martin Geertsen mentioned this, because it is part of a joint venture in which the Danish People's Party is also involved, and which simply says: "You must not go to certain areas, and if you do so, then we will take you away, for example. your residence permit if you are not a Danish citizen. How do the Socialists view such a proposal? Is that something you want to support? I know you have said that you are a little positive and something like that, but is that something you want to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102414	I must start by saying that I am surprised that the Danish People's Party has not voted for dual citizenship if the Danish People's Party would like to contribute to the sending of more people out of Denmark, because this is a central proposal in this context. What we have stated very clearly is that we are happy to discuss with the other parties of the Folketing how we can tackle this issue with common ground. This also means that we are open both to amendments, but also to proposals that may be included in other legislation. So we don't close doors; we open doors. But I would also like to say that we have a very concrete legislative proposal on the table here. Some of the amendments I have heard have been able to fit into other legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102459	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102503	It is good that the Socialists are open to further tightening. That's great. If you wanted to do it, it would be even better. To Mrs Bramsen's remarks on dual citizenship, I would like to say that this is the case, and Mrs Trine Bramsen knows very well that there are plenty of people who today have dual citizenship, including Denmark. That is the reality. However, one might say that it is not exactly the case that those with double citizenship who commit crime are queued up to get out of the country. So if Mrs Trine Bramsen's arguments were to have even a little such reasoning, then it should be made easier to deprive them of Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102545	I think that was a comment, not a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102549	Then it is Mrs Pernille Skippe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102553	I would like to ask a few questions about the proposal and how it is related. Mrs Trine Bramsen says, in fact, even here in the last speech, that there are the things you commit on the journey of terror, war crimes, and if you join the IS, you will certainly fall under some of the paragraphs but that is not what this bill is about. I believe that the former Minister for Justice, Karen Hækkerup, said something in the sense that the good thing about this proposal is that we do not have to prove anything. At the same time, I also heard the representatives of the government, when this was first presented in the press, pointing out time and again that legal certainty should be in order. But you don't have to prove anything. Lawyers and the Institute of Human Rights are today out to say that this risks hitting people who have no intention of doing anything wrong, because the evidence requirements are so vague, the grounds of suspicion are so vague. Mrs. Trine Bramsen, is legal certainty okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102707	I think it certainly is with this bill. I would point out that there is, of course, an opportunity to go to the courts and try the basis on which your passport has been taken, and thus I think that the balance is completely intact. I do not recognize the criticism that has been made when we keep it in mind that we are dealing with a very serious problem which we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102733	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102735	I am not trying to belittle the problem of Syrian warriors, certainly not. Allow me to question, as I have done once today, whether taking the passport from people who have such crazy ideas as it is to take down fighting with the Islamic State will actually mean that they will then sit down and stay at home. That's another case. Now we are talking about legal certainty, which we agree should be in order. Mrs Trine Bramsen says that you can go to the courts, that you can complain to them. We're agreed, aren't we? And when we adopt very easy evidence requirements, a very vague basis of suspicion, the courts cannot say that there must be more requirements to prove it than with the requirements of the law. Don't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102829	We fully agree that the courts must assess the basis that exists, but it is clear that this must be a credible basis. There must be a reason to believe that you are on your way to joining extremist movements. That is the starting point for this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102850	Sir. Martin Geertsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102853	On a question from Mr. Martin Henriksen said a moment ago that the Socialist rapporteur was open to looking at the bourgeois amendment to impose an entry ban on Syria and Iraq. Does this mean that the government will then resume the negotiations that we had in progress, the good talks in the Ministry of Justice that we had in progress, on prevention and on this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116102929	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Martin Geertsen is right now confirming that the reason why we did not want to join all the preventive initiatives contained in the wage-pool agreement was precisely that we wanted to bring criminal elements into this. So, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Martin Geertsen confirms it. What I am saying, and as I say very clearly, is that it is not time to close doors. The Prime Minister was saying the same thing here in the Assembly Hall. However, for us Socialists, it is absolutely essential that we have a good discussion about the proposals that might come, that it is on an enlightened basis, and that means that all the consequences of such a proposal have been examined in legal terms, and what I am saying at the same time is that should we reach where we find a common ground on some of the proposals that the Left is making, it might be that the legislation was better at home elsewhere than exactly in connection with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116103026	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116103028	But is it not true, Mrs Trine Bramsen, that good talk in this way presupposes that we actually meet? Both the Prime Minister, Mrs Trine Bramsen and other good Social Democrats have over the last few days been causing over open doors and good talk and stuff. Is it a 'yes' or 'no' to the fact that the Socialists, with the Minister of Justice in the lead, are going to resume the course of negotiations we had going on, or are you just going to make controversy out of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116103103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116103105	Now, sir. Martin Geertsen and myself are neighbors here in the Folketing, we have office right next to each other, so Mr. Martin Geertsen will be welcome to my office for a cup of coffee. Unfortunately, I can't invite you to coffee at the Justice Department. It must be up to the Minister of Justice to invite his own guests, but what I think is crucial is that we do not confuse the gamble pool debate, which deals with preventive initiatives, with criminal initiatives. These are two different things, and they must be negotiated separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116103140	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116103158	Thank you. We think that in the legislative proposal we are discussing today there are a number of sensible measures. We do not think that is enough, but it is, after all, something that is moving in the right direction. In particular, it lays down: up to the possibility of taking the passport from a person or refusing to issue a passport to a person if one considers that the person will go abroad and participate in activities that may be terrorist activities, or it may be other activities that in different ways pose a threat to the security of the State or a significant threat to public order. That is quite reasonable, because if anyone breaks such a ban, if they also have an exit ban, that is to say they go out and come back, then there is a possibility that they can be punished. That is quite essential. It is therefore also proposed that the police should be given the power to supplement a decision to refuse the issue of passports with a so-called exit ban. In our view, these two things should always go together. It is also suggested that a residence permit may be taken from a foreigner if he or she is staying or has resided outside the country and where there is again reason to believe that he or she has taken part in activities which may endanger the security of the State. It may in turn be terrorist activities, or it may be that one has taken part in fighting for the Islamic State. It may also be for other terrorist movements, as we read the bill. Then we understand the bill so that if it is that a foreigner gets his or her residence permit withdrawn... it is quite excellent if that happens, then finally get started... then in most cases it will be the case that, on the basis of the principle of a permanent entry ban. We believe that this should always be the case, because if it is that you are deprived of your residence permit because you have taken part in some of these activities, then you should never return to Denmark. So there we think it is possible to tighten up the legislative proposal put forward by the government. Then there are some other things in the draft law of such a minor nature that we will be asking about in committee. However, we think that we need to go further than what the government has proposed. We would very much like to see the possibility of depriving people of their Danish citizenship extended. If you are out fighting for the Islamic State, if you have fought against Danish forces, then I think you are clearly crossing the border. That is where we should extend the scope for depriving citizenship. We can of course see in some of the cases that have been that it is either very difficult for the courts to understand the signal from the Folketing, or the legislation is not good enough to actually take citizenship from people who are convicted, for example, of violating the terrorist clauses. Well, then, sir. Martin Geertsen mentioned an amendment. We in the Danish People's Party are involved in this when it comes to ensuring that there is an exit ban, so that you do not travel to some of these conflict zones, and if you do, you have to lose your residence permit, and if you do so and are a Danish citizen, you have to meet with a consistent and tough prison sentence when you return. We very much hope that the government will be accommodating to this. We also think that the discussion that has taken place in the last few days fits in very well here. There have been some new reports from the government that it is believed that those who go down to fight for the Islamic State are traitors. There we would very much like to clarify the legislation by the Danish People's Party, so that it is more clear that attacks on Danish troops and also on our allies in connection with the action in Iraq are treason and therefore can be punished by up to 16 years of imprisonment. We also have a number of other measures to tighten up penalties for terrorist training, etc. But in relation to this bill, there is no reason to hide the fact that we are fundamentally positive, and if I have a question as to whether the Danish People's Party will vote yes when and if it comes to the vote, then the answer is: Yes, it does the Danish People's Party. As I said, we will table some amendments. In relation to the negotiations that are not being discussed anywhere but here, I would say that, in our opinion, they can be concluded relatively quickly. The last meeting we had in the Ministry of Justice, I remember that there were some comments from the various parties that were accepted. We also had some comments from the Danish People's Party which were accepted. And in recent days, there have been some signals from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice, and also from the Socialist rapporteur, in relation to the amendment which has been mentioned a few times here on the platform. If you add all that together, I see nothing more than that negotiations of this kind could be concluded very quickly. I think that is the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116103635	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments today, and then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116103654	In Denmark, we believe in and celebrate democracy and the corresponding fundamental freedoms. Denmark engages in the world when other people fight for the same rights or are cruelly oppressed or killed by extreme groups, who want exactly the opposite of democracy and freedom. That is why, of course, we cannot accept that Danish citizens or foreigners living in Denmark go out into the world and fight side by side with the extremists, sometimes even against Danish soldiers. That's why the government is proposing with this bill, L 99, that it should be possible to withdraw or not issue passports to people suspected of going to Syria or Iraq, for example, to fight. If you are not a Danish citizen but a resident resident, the bill lays down that the basis of residence may lapse if you leave for the same purpose. It is a relatively new situation that so many Danes or people living in Denmark leave to fight with other armed forces, and we will have to take this very seriously and therefore counter them with actions that have very strong consequences. But before most people get there that they will travel from Denmark down to participate in an armed conflict, there is, after all, a period of short or longer duration in which some have convinced them of the right thing to go. As with all other policy areas, the Radical Left believes that the best thing would be if we could prevent anyone from leaving at all. That's why this bill can't be left alone. In September, the Government published a new action plan on the prevention of radicalisation and extremism, including: includes concrete actions against recruitment to armed conflicts abroad. The action plan provides for a strengthening of the authorities' exit efforts so that people who have ended up in extremist environments are helped to leave the environment again. There is also a desire to strengthen efforts to combat online radicalisation, including: by allowing PET to monitor the use of the Internet by extremists to spread radicalising material and recruit new members. Furthermore, we would like to set up a mentoring corps on which the municipalities can draw if an urgent need arises for a mentor for a person who is at risk of being radicalised or already associated with an extremist environment. Finally, the plan also contains a national hotline that parents and relatives can call with their specific concerns. We are doing all this to emphasise that we still believe that a great deal can be prevented, and our intelligence service is actually very skilled in this effort. Unfortunately, all these good preventive elements have not yet become reality, as this requires consensus in the pool of movements, and unfortunately we have seen more political teasing here than genuine commitment to getting the initiatives launched. Radical Left and government are ready. Let's get started. The Radical Left can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104023	There are two brief comments, first from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104028	I think it is a very interesting debate to follow. This is almost coming to be about who's teasing who at which meetings in the pool of rates. And I actually think it's a little embarrassing to watch. A recent attack has been averted in Belgium, and last week there was an attack in France, and the best thing you can talk about in the Parliament hall is who is teasing who politically. No, we must now take the juice to get into work and then sit down and consider whether the initiatives that are being put forward are enough. That is why I just want to ask because we can see that there is a big difference between red and blue in the Chamber today and that the bourgeois will go further than the government wants: is the government ready to pull the work clothes and actually take seriously the threat to Denmark that we have to say is imminent in every way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104125	This is my work clothes and it is quite clear that that is why we are in the Chamber today: it is, of course, with a specific legislative proposal and it just needs to be adopted. In the autumn, the government presented concrete proposals to prevent radicalisation; to prevent some leaving. That's being in the work clothes. It has been four months and we have been broadly in agreement since at least the beginning of December. Why is it that there can't just come a nod from the bourgeois parties so we can get started?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104156	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104158	Well, as I hear the debate, it sounds like this is a bill that everyone is going to support. I have not yet heard a single party that has gone up and said that this is a bad legislative proposal. But I think that it is easy for a number of political parties not to ask themselves that, in fact, it is quite important whether this is enough; whether this will ensure that we do not experience an attack such as that which we have seen prevented in Belgium and what we have seen in France. And I just don't hear the government parties say: this bill doesn't mean that it happens in Denmark. It is only then that I call on the Ministry of Justice to actually sit down with the legal rapporteurs and take the decisions that ensure Denmark and which can greatly counteract Denmark's being attacked, as we have seen elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104248	Is that enough? Mrs Mai Mercado asks. No, the government doesn't think so. We don't think this can stand alone. We think that a great deal of preventive action is needed, so that very, very few people will be able to feel the consequences of this bill. So this bill just can't be left alone. We need all the preventive action. We would very much like that to be adopted tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104318	Mrs Pernille Skippe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104320	I will start by feeling a little overlooked by Mrs Mai Mercado, because we as a party have at least tried to express a bit of scepticism about legal certainty in this. I would also like to wonder why the Conservatives are including an attack in Paris, which, for the time being at least, apparently has nothing to do with the war in Syria and Northern Iraq, and that has nothing to do with Danish Syrians either. I think we should be careful not to confuse such things if we want to avoid creating a panic-like atmosphere. Now I spent half my speaking time on it, and fortunately the Conservative rapporteur will also have to take the floor later. I would like to ask the Radicals about the problems of legal certainty. This was something that the Radicals were very clear about when the proposal was presented in the press in the first place. This is something that, despite the many changes that have actually been made in this bill, is still being criticised, among other things. by the Institute for Human Rights and several lawyers. I am sure that the radical rapporteur has actually read it. It would look like the Radicals to care about something like that. Could we not have an explanation of how the Radicals can agree to such low standards of proof, then vaguely suspect, because it does not look like the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104438	It is very difficult to write a precise wording of when it is that there may be a suspicion, because it can be very, very different. It may be that the intelligence service has some information that might make it possible for you to go out and say: Now we will withdraw your passport. It may also be a worried mother who calls in and says: I am simply so afraid that my son will leave tomorrow. There are very, very different ways of getting this suspicion, and therefore it can't be more concrete. What, on the other hand, has been very important for the Radical Left has been that one can have one's case tried quickly for a judge so that we can be sure that the courts are inside and ensure legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104523	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104527	What I am actually hearing, and I would like to thank you for this, is a recognition that the grounds of suspicion are vague, that it is very low. When you say'reason for taking', it certainly doesn't take much, especially if we compare with other interventions that we find in, for example. the law on the administration of justice. After all, we agree that this is an infringement of the right to move freely. I would then like to hear what is being done about 1) that this may mean that you can hit innocent people, to whom there is no reason to restrict freedom of movement, and 2) that with justice. Once again, I would like to have confirmation that the courts cannot therefore make more demands on evidence than there is in the law, and that is what is the problem, namely that virtually no demands are made on what needs to be done until it is OK. to have his or her passport removed, to have his or her passport removed, to have an exit ban imposed, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104630	For me, as a politician, it is very important to have this distinction between the three powers in Denmark, and that is why it has been a cardinal point for the Radical Left that there was a possibility of judicial review; furthermore, the fact that if the information on which the passport had to be taken into account is of a nature which makes the individual cannot be disclosed, for example. Because they've come from the police intelligence service, they can't be used to include the passport. This is an essential legal certainty that we have not seen in the past in legislation on matters that are heading towards terrorism, and we are pleased with that in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104712	Sir. Martin Geertsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104715	Thank you. Now the radical rapporteur also mentioned the question of the negotiations that were once under way in the Ministry of Justice, and also the radical rapporteur is beginning to accuse the bourgeois parties of leghold traps, and I know what. I think the truth is quite different. I believe that the truth is that the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party do not agree on the conclusion that we were very close to reaching under the Minister for Justice's leadership in the Ministry of Justice back in early December. Is that an image that the radical rapporteur can recognise?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104753	Not at all. The agreement we had at the beginning of December is fully agreed by the Radical Left and the Socialists, and the government agrees with it. It's just about getting your nod off, and we can get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104808	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104809	But that is also why I am surprised that we have not received half a piece of paper from the government since the beginning of December, so that we could hold a meeting in the Ministry of Justice and get the nod, as the radical rapporteur says. Why can't we have that meeting so we can get started?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104828	The Radical Left will gladly stand for such a meeting, even tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104839	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116104846	Thank you. It can be said that the treatment of this bill has suddenly become extremely topical after we have seen yesterday that a terrorist case has been rolled up in Belgium. After what can be read in the press, it is certainly about a couple of Syrians who were planning a terrorist attack. This time the authorities were out in time. Unfortunately, that was not achieved in France, where a great many innocent people died. In Denmark, unfortunately, we have seen a rather influx of young people who have been attracted to travel to Syria and fight for the Islamic State. This is serious for their relatives, who are often left powerless and desperate, but it is even more serious when they return home, because then they bring with them some skills that can be used in the extreme for terrorist attacks. We therefore need to act on that challenge. In fact, we have been relatively fortunate with the preventive action, the so-called Aarhus model, which has practically stopped leaving Aarhus. The whole world is looking towards Denmark to learn from the experiences, and that is very good, so we must of course have more of that effort. But we must also be true that we have not really been prosecuted yet for leaving, and there are also young people who have been there several times. I think it sends a boring signal that it is virtually risk-free to leave. This is also the reason why SF is voting in favour of the bill here to take residence permits and passports from those who want to travel. I must also be honest and say that when it comes to such dedicated and targeted young people with such extreme attitudes, it probably takes more than these initiatives to prevent them from travelling. If they want to go, I'm afraid they'll come too. But I do not think we can sit and watch citizens from Denmark travel out and contribute to the atrocities that Islamic State stands for or come home with even more twisted ideas. The Islamic State commits massive human rights violations and war crimes. They decapitate enemies and they sell women as slaves. Then we can just prevent one young person from leaving because we have taken the passport, then we think it is worth considering. We must have a broad range of opportunities to combat this, which is why I think I should like to pay tribute to the government for a very wise action plan, which I think contains a number of preventive initiatives which are very good, among other things. this hotline, which we have discussed, which creates an entrance to helping parents and relatives and more opportunities to intervene with exits, both before you travel, but also in relation to those who come home, so that we can move young people out of the extreme environments. These are important initiatives which, unfortunately, are gathering dust right now because we have not received a clear reply from the right. I sense that we are getting that now, and I think that is really, really good, because otherwise the problems will grow. There has also been some criticism of legal certainty in the proposal. That is a concern to which we are also listening in the SF. Fortunately, there is access to justice and we will also see an evaluation of the proposal. And then we're willing to admit that these are tough means. That is why we are also tabling a proposal together with a majority, you can read in the press today about a sunset clause. This means that the law will cease if we do not actively choose to continue. Then we will actually have the opportunity to abandon the law if the situation in the world changes or if it turns out that the legislation is going to go wrong. It is important for SF when we take such a drastic step that it also has the desired effect. So a yes from SF to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105238	There are three brief comments. First, it's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105242	I would also like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt about the level of penalties. Does SF mean there's a connection? There is a risk of two years in breach of this law, but SF has also been involved in introducing a six-year prison sentence three times as long for cartels and doping.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105306	In my view, the proposal put forward by the government is sensible and, if you read the comments, you will see that the level of punishment is also significant in relation to the rest of Europe, where it is punished by between half a year and a year in prison for a violation of an exit ban. And here you add up to 2 years, so it is actually significant if you compare with other countries. I have little problem with the fact that there are differences in the levels of penalties in different cases. If you're going to choose that angle of attack, there's a lot of things you can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105344	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105346	Well, I think that's what you should do. It is quite crazy that, for crimes such as cartels and doping, which may be bad enough, but which are of course not something that endangers anyone's life, six years of imprisonment are at risk, while in order to go down to a holy war in Syria with a great risk of returning and being trained to commit terrorist attacks such as those we have seen in Paris and which, fortunately, were averted in Belgium, in other words, only two years of imprisonment are at risk. It's totally out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105423	The Left is welcome to pursue the objectives which the Left once has. I think it is a good thing that we are actually putting forward a significant penalty here. And then we should remember that, if you join the Islamic State, this is a terrorist organisation, and then we are in quite different and more serious clauses. So I actually think that there is enough basis to be able to go after these people in criminal law and also with quite considerable penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105451	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105453	I have to ask the SF again about legal certainty in this legislative proposal, and again it is not to belittle the problem of young people, in particular, who are going to Syria or Iraq, but I would still like to ask whether we should not now ensure that the things we are doing, on the one hand, have an effect and, on the other hand, keep legal certainty. Today is among other things. The Lawyer's Council and the Institute of Human Rights in the press and repeat some concerns about the evidence requirements, and one of the quotes says: "The more imprecise the bill is formulated, the greater the risk of us hitting completely innocent people. To quote once again the former Minister of Justice, Karen Hækkerup, who originally presented the proposal, I can say that she formulated it somewhat in the sense that the good thing about this bill was that you didn't have to prove anything. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is, in fact, a little concerned about this now too. This bill is not about those who commit terror or join the Islamic State. It's about some people you think maybe you're going to leave because you think they might want to do something because you think it might have an impact on them later on. And the evidence requirements are very, very small. Has the SF ever considered legal certainty in this bill? Are there any concerns?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105619	Yes, we have been considering the consultation answers, and I can see that they all point to a place where they think that legal certainty is very thin in this proposal. I now believe that Mrs Karen Hækkerup, the former Minister of Justice, has taken her mouth a little too full when she says that no evidence is required at all, and we should bear in mind that this can be brought before the courts. After all, the SF did not vote in favour of the terrorist packages at the time, but I believe that, as far as many of the tools contained in the terrorist packages are concerned, it has actually been seen that the courts have managed to make it land properly. Among other things: I know that the first cases of terrorist financing have made a real, real effort. If you read the judgments, you can see that they are very, very long and complete when you try to figure this out. So I actually have faith and faith that the courts can handle this. But having said that, we also say in the SF that we have to take a position on this bill and have a sunset clause, because if it turns out that there are challenges, of course we have to respond to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105728	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105729	I respect that answer, but could not Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt then confirm that the problem of a vague suspicion or claim, as it says, that there is really not much to do until the conditions laid down in the legislation have been met, does not change in court proceedings, so that the courts cannot interpret the law differently from what it says; on the one hand, when a bill is adopted stating that there is just reason to assume it and that it is enough to have a facebook update pointing towards perhaps going, the courts cannot say that it is not enough, for example. Such a facebook update? Is it not true that then we are not any safer anyway? I don't suppose judicial review can make an unjust law just. Am I right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105830	I think we will see that it will be possible to land properly with judicial review and that, after all, some kind of proof will have to be provided that he or she intends to leave. And then I think we should remember that this is about including a passport for one year, you might say. I do not think anyone dies of not being able to travel for one year, and a cat door has also been made, so that if you have a worthy purpose, if there is a death, or if you need to travel because of your work, that is possible. I do not think we will see that this is going to happen in a hurry, but politics has taught me that we should never be completely sloppy about what can arise from cases. Sometimes only imagination limits what sort of situations you get into, but I do have a reasonable confidence that the courts will be able to manage this in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105935	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116105939	After all, the rapporteur was concerned almost primarily with the anti-radicalisation package and not so much with the legislative proposal. Apparently, there have been a number of different forms of partisanism in recent times, and that is why I would like to hear from the SF's rapporteur, who is waiting for me to understand a 'yes' vote from the bourgeois parties, whether the SF, unlike the Liberal Alliance, has received a new version to which you can say 'yes' or 'no'. I have not received that, which is why it is a little difficult to give an undertaking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110014	As I recall, we have not received a clear 'yes' from the bourgeois, but there were a lot of things that you would have liked to have looked at and you could not say clearly whether this package was something or not. I hope we get a meeting quickly so we can clarify this. It has to be said that this is not the first time there has been a bourgeois smurf when it comes to a radicalisation plan, and I can have the bourgeois suspicion that they are not very concerned about these soft initiatives that have actually seemed to work. In 2010 the right-wing actually made its own plan, where after two years 16 out of 53 activities had been carried out. So I really think you should sweep for your own door only when you're screaming so hard for the government, which has actually done something to get this thing put in the lake.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110102	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110104	Yes, you can understand if the government is happy with its support party, because unfortunately I think the rapporteur is continuing with the party party, because what I am saying is that we really did have a very good meeting on 3 December last year, when I also felt that there was a hearing and also some of the objections raised by the Liberal Alliance, but I have still not been allowed to see what it really is that we should say 'yes' or 'no' to. As the rapporteur did not answer my question in the first place, I actually see it as confirmation that the SF has not been told what to say 'yes' or 'no' to. In fact, we think it is extremely important to have the anti-radical part, with the prevention part, and I do not think anyone has been able to question that in what we have said, both in the Ministry of Justice and in the Ministry of Social Affairs and external affairs. So please, stop that partisan. Unfortunately, we are not in the government, and that is why we do not have the right of initiative. Now we're trying to take it because it's not going so fast. But we still haven't seen anything you can say yes or no to. Does the SF have it? Can we just get a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110214	Well, I just have to say that I think this thing about negotiating in the press in this way is a really, really weird approach. The only thing I've ever seen is that you've shrunk and dragged this over because you'd basically have an opportunity to negotiate on this bill. We have had several months to say yes to this in connection with the rate pool, but it was the right-wing who demanded that we sit over in the Ministry of Justice and tamper with the bill that lies with a lot of good preventive initiatives. And I know that the right wing was conspicuous by its absence at the PET conference on Syrian warriors that preceded the summer recess. There was not one of the right-wing rapporteurs who could be told about the need for some of the soft things that lie in this package.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110258	Mrs Mai Mercado, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110300	I'm gonna stay out of this kind of political teasing and this kind of political scam, 'cause that's not really what matters. It doesn't matter who sent a letter or who hasn't been invited to a cup of coffee. Well, why don't you grab that cup of coffee and find common ground, I feel like I'm gonna say it. I just want to ask you something, because the SF's rapporteur's speech places a great deal of emphasis on these soft elements of prevention. I think there are a lot of people at home in the rooms who are really worried about the attack that was averted in Belgium, but also about what was seen in Paris last week, and there are also many people who are worried about whether it can hit Denmark, and so I would actually just like to ask: does SF mean that it is enough with the bill and the anti-radicalisation package, the prevention package that hopefully at some point falls into place when you get tired of teasing each other? Will that be enough, or will you go further? Will it support the bourgeois proposal that it should be punishable, for example, to stay in these areas without official approval?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110409	I think we will always have to adjust our efforts, but in fact I think that the government has put forward a plan of action that is well thought out and that is going on two legs, and we in the SF consider this to be really, really important. There are both a lot of preventive initiatives that get around well, and that is what the whole world is screaming for, and then there are the a little more tough measures that we are dealing with here today. I am not convinced that SF will say yes to more bourgeois tighter proposals. We must, of course, look openly at what is being put forward, and we will most likely do so with this proposal, but I really think we are well covered on the criminal side. Where our greatest challenge lies is, of course, in relation to the burden of proof. We simply cannot lift it, we cannot have any prosecution, and I think it is a huge problem. Because it sends a signal to young people that they can leave risk-free, and that is a huge challenge, and I do not think it solves it, that we will then have even more paragraphs with an even tighter wording into the legislation. I just have to be honest with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110523	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110526	In fact, I think it is very important that the soft and hard measures should be followed together. I also think there might be some people who can sit around and don't care if you get a fine because you leave the country. On the other hand, it may be important if you are at 6 years in prison when you get home. So that's why these two things go together. Then it is simply not true that there is no evidence that anyone has been there. There are some very important social media today such as Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and other channels where you can simply document when some of them are gone. I think we just have to recognise that the time has come for us to make it very clear that we will not accept going to holy war abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110611	But then maybe I should call on Mai Mercado to apply for a position with the police or with PET, since then she has such knowledge that she says it is easy enough to find the evidence. I think they are fighting everything they can to get it in place, and I do not think anyone is as frustrated as PET and the police are, that they have not yet managed to get to where they can get some of these people. I think they have picked up the political signal that this is really, really important to all of us. So I think we should not be politically indifferent to it. I simply do not believe that it will solve the challenge of having a thousand new measures in our criminal law. However, we must, of course, have adequate criminal protection, and I am also pleased that the government is looking at several initiatives in connection with the review of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110704	A brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110709	Thank you. I think it is remarkable that there are a number of parties who say, on the one hand, that the prevention initiatives are not part of this draft law, but, on the other hand, have themselves recognised in an agreement text that they belong together, and here in this Chamber too they talk a lot about this in relation to the legislative proposal which, of course, tightens up slightly in relation to the current case law. Prevention is fine, but you have to meet in order to negotiate. That's the way it is. But I would like to ask the SF's view on immigration. Because when we have some of the problems that we have today in Danish society, it has something to do with the immigration of the past and, as such, also the current immigration. I would venture to claim that strict foreign policy is the best form of prevention. The influx that we are seeing now from, for example. Syria, but it may also be from elsewhere, is one of the things that helps to create the holy warriors of the future, to put it a little square. But that's the way it is. Does the Socialist People's Party share the concern of the Danish People's Party? Because right now we are discussing the consequences of past immigration. Can't Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt see that what is happening now, for example, with what is happening? Does the influx of asylum help to exacerbate the problems in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110824	I recognise that we have a challenge with extremist environments. They exist in Denmark, but they are not an expression of how all new dancers or immigrants in our society think and act, far from it. The majority goes to work, sends their children to school, provides for themselves and does everything they can to be integrated into this society. So I think one should be very careful to take such debates on top of such serious matters as we see here. And by the way, it has little to do with the bill here, so I would like to ask for some questions for the bill so that we can discuss it, and then we will have to take the other debate another time. I think we will also have ample opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110906	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116110908	But basically this is the problem if you cut right to the bone; it is, of course, that there are some politicians in here who do not want to see things in the right context. It is quite obvious that the immigration of the past to Denmark has helped to create some of the parallel societies, some of the ghetto areas that we see today. That's the way it is. Well, at least it's a little hard to get around that fact. It's obvious. It is also obvious that where we see some of these very radicalised environments, there are indeed in some of the parallel societies. Well, that's obvious too. If it is then that you have an influx to Denmark, as everything else is equal, that in the long term it will happen that the current ghetto areas will become larger or new ghetto areas will emerge, then there will also be a breeding ground for new parallel societies and new areas where radicalised environments could emerge. Does Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt not see that connection at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111004	I think that what we should do is take action against those who are extreme and take action against those who violate criminal law. That is where the challenge and the solution to this problem must be, and that is what we are standing here today discussing: it is actually a legislative proposal on how to slow down that traffic. We support this, and we also believe that more needs to be done with regard to the preventive part. So it's not that we don't take this challenge seriously, but we have to remember that it's a very, very small group of new dancers who support this. The people who are extreme do not represent anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111041	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111055	The government has presented a 20-page action plan to prevent radicalisation and extremism, which has also been mentioned several times today, and by far most of these are really sensible initiatives, among others. builds on what we call the Aarhus model, this very well-functioning cooperation between East Jutland Police and Aarhus Municipality, where you follow young people who are at risk of being captured by Islamic extremists, and keep close contact with their families and networks. The government has an intention to dress social workers, teachers and job center workers better to pay attention to young people at risk in the risk zone. In order to sign up as IS warriors in Iraq or Syria, you can say that a nationwide team of professional mentors is also on the drawing board and then such an actual exit centre, which we in the Enhedslist have actually been shouting for a number of years. We think this is really, really positive. That it is the government's intention to finance it by taking money from an already starved social pool, which means that the money will be missing from some of the most vulnerable groups in Denmark and the pool is financed by people affected by illness or unemployment etc., then we leave today. The fact that when you stand outside this work, you have to hear all day today with a bill that is as controversial as it is that the other parties spend the most time talking about who is responsible for them not getting any further, and then I start getting a little tired. In the Enhedslisten we support all the initiatives that lie and are being negotiated right now in the movement pool, and we do so because there is good reason to be afraid of the Islamic State. It is a frightening group of people, they are spreading horror and fear, ethnic cleansing is being committed, young women are being raped and even children are being killed. I am also afraid, and I believe that all my colleagues in the Enhedslisten are. We are also afraid that they intend to commit terrorism in Denmark, and when we talk to some of our members or families who are of Syrian or Kurdish descent, we feel an even more present fear. There are people in Denmark who have family and friends and acquaintances in these areas and who are very, very scared. No one should belittle the seriousness of what is happening in Syria and Northern Iraq. However, we also need to talk about what is not a problem. No one is talking about it, and we should be able to agree that this is not a problem. It may be stupid, but it is not punishmentworthy if there are people who go to war zones, perhaps to protect their family and friends, perhaps to help humanitarianly, and so I would like to reject the suggestion that the very journey to Syria or Northern Iraq should be criminalised. Because we need only imagine what we would do ourselves if we were sitting in Italy and something so scary happened in Denmark. We all wanted to go to Denmark and help. Lately, I need to talk about some of the legal problems that exist in the legislative proposal that lies here. This is a very unclear area of application. It lacks a real clear definition of what is worthy of punishment and what is worthy of recognition, that is, the concept used in the legislative proposal to grant exemptions or to say that it is not covered by the legislative proposal. We do not really know which relief organizations are worthy of recognition and which are not. Are there any forces in Syria or Northern Iraq that can be joined without it being covered by the bill, or is there not? It can be said that the draft law has little difficulty in pointing out what it is that is actually supposed to be illegal. If one compares the very unclear scope with a very weak basis of suspicion, that is to say there should be only reason to assume, which is therefore an innovation in relation to similar interventions, then the legal gaps will be fairly large. The Ministry itself writes in response to the criticism in the hearings that the purpose is precisely to avoid the demands for evidence normally made in criminal proceedings. As I have also mentioned earlier, former Minister Karen Hækkerup has said it even more clearly when she stated something in the sense that the beauty of this proposal is, of course, that you do not have to prove anything. Then it is said that the courts must deal with the ambiguity, but we have to make it clear that the division of power means that the courts can only judge on the basis of the legislation we adopt and we adopt unjust legislation, they cannot do so fairly. Enhedslisten has asked about 40 questions about this bill. We want clarification as far as possible, but we must also say that we are very sceptical right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111624	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111628	Thank you. It is fair to say that there are some concerns about a legislative proposal, but I would really like to ask: what is Enhedslisten's bid to prevent young people, for example. are radicalized? Does Enhedslisten even agree that you can, for example: should deprive them of their residence permit? Does Enhedslisten agree that it should be easier to deprive them of Danish citizenship? What exactly is Enhedslisten's offer of those things? Does Enhedslisten think that when a person goes out and fights for Islamic State, or whatever it may be, it's okay that he returns? Or does the Enhedslisten think that it would be very beneficial if we could, through the legislation, keep them out so that they cannot return?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111707	Now we actually want to introduce some things that work. I do not think that people who have decided that they will fight together with the Islamic State, which is taking completely crazy action, will stay at home because they take their passports away from them. I don't think they stay home either because they're being threatened with a few years' imprisonment. After all, they've decided that they're willing to sacrifice their lives for this crazy stunt. So I don't think that's gonna work. What we know works are some of the real preventive measures, and we would be delighted to be involved in that. It is exit programmes, anti-radicalisation efforts and the focus on young people who are at risk, because there are some factors that make young people end up in the arms of such shimmering crazy • if I may use a slightly alternative expression • people with such attitudes as here. So it is not just something that one day wakes up to and has decided. That's what's working. These aren't as pretty headlines as you, sir. Martin Henriksen gets created with his idea that you can forbid yourself from everything, but that's what works in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111822	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111823	In my view, this was not very specific. Can't Enhedslisten see that if it's that we're introducing a rule that they're not allowed to go out, and we're trying to prevent people from going out, and they're still doing it, I kind of agree that it's probably a lot of them who are going to do it anyway, they're breaking the rule. If they come back, we can punish them, or we can take the residence permit from them, and then we can keep them out. That is also the important part of tightening up both through the bill that the government has delivered, but also through some of the measures that we have taken from the Danish People's Party. Can't Mrs. Pernille Skipper see the logic of that? And does Enhedslisten even think it's okay to take the residence permit from people? Does Enhedslisten even think that it is okay to take citizenship from people? Is it okay to do so when they go out and fight for example? Islamic State? That was one part of the question. The second part of the question does not remind me that I was given an answer, and I may not do that in the second round, but if I can just get an answer to one thing, it would be nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116111928	It's funny. Now I have been accused of not answering anything that I do not know what is, but I can only apologize for that and I am sorry. If sir... Martin Henriksen had asked the question again, I should have done my best to answer it in the second round. I understand that sir. Martin Henriksen does not think it is particularly concrete to talk about exit programmes or mentoring schemes that can spot the people who are in the risk zone, etc. I am well aware of this, and it is because the Danish People's Party only thinks that something is concrete as long as it concerns the penal code and contains some kind of prohibition or can be in the line space corresponding to the title of one of the Danish daily newspapers. This is how the Danish People's Party conducts politics. But that's what's working, though, sir. Martin Henriksen doesn't understand. I don't have time to answer the rest of the question. I can only regret that, and Mr. Martin Henriksen, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112015	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112017	Thank you. I do not think that Mrs Pernille Skipper is the only one in this Chamber who can get tired when she hears other people's views. I might also get a little tired when I hear Enhedslisten talk about that it doesn't help, it won't keep anyone at home etc. The question could then be asked with the same right: why put people who have committed terrorism in prison at all? Because if you are so twisted up in your head that you choose to leave and commit such cruel acts, it is not the punishment in relation to prison that makes you not do so. Yet we're punishing. A question was asked by Mr. Martin Henriksen: What do you want? And then we were told that we want to prevent, and so do we. There is no doubt that it will work, but it will not work tomorrow, it will take some time. But what does Enhedslisten want? For example, would you remove residence permits for people who have been in Syria and have posted pictures on Facebook and Twitter, and what do I know where they proudly pose along with comrades from the Islamic State? Is this something that we want from the Enhedslisten, or is it going to go too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112127	I'd like to correct sir. Jan E. Jørgensen: I have never said that I was tired of other people's views. I have said that I was tired of the discussion being about something other than this bill and a process discussion. But I'm sorry if mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is tired of Enhedslisten's views, I'll try to make them more interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112150	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112151	Well, I'm tired of asking questions that you don't get an answer to. So I think Mrs. Pernille Skipper should answer. I asked fairly clearly whether the Enhedslisten was prepared to take a residence permit from resident foreigners who have been in Syria and have been with the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112216	If you travel from Denmark to Syria and participate in acts of war with the Islamic State, you will in all probability have committed terror under the Danish penal code, and then you must be punished for your actions, you must be prosecuted. And we have a problem proving what people have done if they go to Syria or to Northern Iraq and participate down there, and I recognise that, and I think we should try to solve that. But we are not going to solve that by making legislation that risks hitting innocent people. I'm sorry, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen looks a little displeased, I am actually trying to answer the question, and the answer is: yes, if you violate the penal code, commit terrorist acts in Syria and Iraq, then we think you should be prosecuted and punished. We know that there is a problem, and we will gladly help to try to resolve this, but we must prove in a constitutional state that people have violated the law before they can be convicted and imprisoned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112311	Mrs Mai Mercado for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112313	I was just about to say that it is typical of Enhedslisten to be against such a bill and not to make anything concrete in the rapporteur's speech. But Enhedslisten's rapporteur did so fortunately and said "exit programmes" and "mentor schemes." Then I'm just wondering if the best thing you can come up with is some mentoring. Because there is a need to show that we will seriously put an end to those who are leaving. I do not really think there were so much answers to the questions raised by the good bourgeois either. Therefore, I just want to ask whether Enhedslisten will help to ensure that fewer people come back and continue their daily lives here in Denmark... a very simple question... yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112358	I would like to reject the fact that the fact that we do not want to put legal certainty out of hand should mean that we will not do anything to stop people going to Syria or Northern Iraq and fighting with the Islamic State. It's actually slightly insulting. Having said that, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I have some things that we do not think are worthy of punishment. We cannot, we believe, blame people who want to take down and protect their family from the Islamic State; we cannot criminalise them as the bourgeois bloc would like. We do not believe that relief work should be criminal. No, those people we don't want to be involved in punishing, maybe they're doing something stupid, but it's not worthy of punishment. And yes, we think we should be prosecuted and punished if we commit acts of terrorism. Yes, we would very much like to contribute to this. What we want most is to prevent people from leaving at all, but we do not do that by telling them to take the passport away from them. We don't think that's gonna work, but if it did, it's gonna work. But legal certainty must be in order. What we are questioning here is whether we now have legal certainty with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112517	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112519	Well, what Enhedslisten is bringing in today is very, very soft and bordering on the unconditional naïve. There is, of course, a very clear difference. That is also what is being heard from the proposal that it should be illegal to leave without official approval. There will then be a distinction between relief workers and those who go to holy war. I actually just asked a simple question, and I understand that it may be unpleasant to answer, but I have to ask it again. Will the Enhedslisten help to ensure that fewer of those travelling out actually come home to a daily life in Denmark, i.e. that more are kept away? It's a very simple question. That's a yes or a no. And then we should not talk about mentoring programmes and exit programmes, but simply tackle those who go out in concrete terms. Should we try to prevent them coming home to a daily life in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112621	You can always blame each other for not answering questions. We would very much like to ensure that people do not go to Syria; that they do not commit ethnic cleansing; that they do not rape; that they do not execute children, and that this is prevented by preventive work. We want those who do so to be punished for their actions. But there is no point in making sure that no one comes back. So, what about all the Danish citizens who have left, are they also to be kept out? We cannot do this within our contractual obligations. So Mrs Mai Mercado can stand and pretend that Enhedslisten will nothing and Conservatives have invented the deep plate, the problem is that what you are proposing does not even have on earth, but you sound really tough, of course, and that is great.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112713	Sir. Martin Geertsen, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112716	Well, it's just to follow up on sir. Jan E. Jørgensen and Mrs Mai Mercado's question to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. For the rapporteur himself said in one of his remarks here before that it is very difficult to lift a burden of proof in relation to terrorism. There we say that if you as a Danish citizen stay in these terrorist zones alone, it is punishable and you lose your residence permit if you are staying in this country. After all, we distinguish between Islamic State and Doctors Without Borders by saying that if you have a prior authority approval, of course you have the opportunity to stay in these areas. Isn't that a very logical way to deal with the problem we have with the fact that it's hard to lift a burden of proof in relation to terrorism? And is it not, in fact, far more logical and coherent and legally correct than what the government is proposing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112822	Well, I really do not want to have to answer whether that is more legal certainty. 'Cause that's gonna happen, among other things. On the basis of what grounds of suspicion one intends to adopt in relation to whether people have even stayed somewhere. What does it take to prove you've been going? I mean, I guess it's gonna be okay, whatever bill it is, and I haven't seen anything from the Left there. So I'm not going to make that assessment. In relation to the proposal itself, we are not criminalising the actual actions, but we in the Left want to criminalise ourselves in certain areas. I think that is very, very dangerous. Firstly, there will be problems of proof, which will also be difficult to lift, but which, in my opinion, must be lifted, regardless of what you are trying to prove. Secondly, there is also the risk of hitting some people who may not have obtained the derogation but who have also done nothing wrong, and thirdly, we need to clarify exactly what the objectives of recognition are. I'd like to suggest to you, sir. Martin Henriksen to read some of the many questions which Enhedslisten among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this proposal, in which there is also the problem of clarifying what is worthy of recognition. In the conflict in Northern Iraq and Syria, it is not the case that there are the good and the white and the black and the bad, and then it is completely separate. Unfortunately, this is a very, very complicated conflict, so I am not sure that we can clarify what is worthy of recognition and what is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112957	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116112958	But that is actually exactly what I think we are addressing, that is, the position of proof, in the proposal we are making, contrary to what is being done in the government's proposal, where, for good reason, one can discuss it with the fact that one takes the passport from people depending on some suspicion. Our proposal is, in fact, quite square by talking about residence alone, because it cannot be graded. Either the authorities can prove that you've been in these areas or they can't. And isn't that a much more logical way to address this issue again than what the government here is doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116113042	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116113044	Once again, I would very much like to be discouraged from assessing the two proposals with each other, especially considering that the intention of the Left is to implement both the government's proposals and its own. So it's not even an option for the Enhedslisten to say that if only the Left were a little bit better, we could choose it instead of the government's. So I don't know why I have to make that balance. I would say that if the Left makes a real legislative proposal with comments and so on, so that you can see what the grounds of suspicion are, what proofs are being made, then you can make that assessment. I don't know why I'm being asked to answer who's the craziest person in his proposals if I'm to be honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116113128	There are no more brief comments to Mrs Pernille Skipper, so I thank her and give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Pernille Skipper. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116113140	The Western world is threatened by today's totalitarian mainstream, namely Islamism, whether in the form of threats, war or terror. The Danish intelligence services consider that returned warriors pose the greatest threat. Europol has upgraded the threat picture and considers that particularly returned Syrian warriors pose a serious threat. These are truly extraordinary times and, in exceptional times, there may also be grounds for extraordinary legislation, and that is what we are dealing with here. This is something that we, the Liberal Alliance, wish to share, but it is important for us that we also bear in mind fundamental freedoms and legal certainty, because it is high for us. We must remember that the fight against Islamism is the fight for Western freedoms. That is why I am also looking forward to the Minister giving the discussion on the basis of suspicion a few words along the way in the final speech, because I think that is what is needed. That is why we preferred an entry ban rather than an exit ban because we are on safer grounds. And that is why we have joined with a large number of parties to make a majority for this bill to be equipped with a sunset clause. There has been a little discussion about whether this proposal solves everything, and it is exactly like being back to the discussion on Wednesday when we had an urgent question, and had the discussion on the Grimhøjmoskeen, because there were also some who said: Ahr, that proposal does not solve everything. And in both cases that is absolutely correct. There are a number of other things that need to be done, both in relation to • we believe that we are punishing those who threaten and intimidate other people not to be able to use their freedom of expression, but we must also remember that punishment cannot stand alone. Something must also be done in the field of prevention, and this is where the debate on anti-radicalism has been appropriate, and it has also been up and running today. I would just like to emphasise once again that, for the Liberal Alliance, the preventive part in anti-radicalisation is very, very important, and we hope that the parties can agree on a solution as soon as possible, including on this issue. However, we are inclined to be positive about the proposal, especially when we get the sunset clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116113446	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. There are no brief comments, so we can move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116113504	The Conservative People's Party can support the bill for strengthened efforts to prevent residents of young people from travelling to conflict areas and participating in conflicts abroad. Unfortunately, there are some young people who are radicalised Islamists and believe that they should go, for example. Syria to participate in the conflict. They should not do so, partly because it does not solve the conflict, but merely prolongs it, partly because participation in conflicts has the consequence that those concerned acquire military skills which, together with strong radicalisation, raison d'être and readiness for violence, can help to create major problems in Denmark when they return. It is therefore important that everything possible is done to prevent travel. On the one hand, preventive measures must be taken and, on the other hand, travel must be prevented by including the passports of the persons concerned and by granting the exit bans in question. At the same time, the authorities must pay particular attention to taking action against those people who radicalise young people in this country and instill so much hatred in them that they want to travel to the areas of conflict. Many consider that radicalised Syrian warriors who return to Denmark pose a very great threat, and this is understood well. They're hardened, they're even more fanatical, they're weapons experts, and they're trained in a terrorist nest. The Conservative People's Party expects the authorities also to prosecute those who are calling for others to leave and, in addition, we also want it to be punishable to stay in areas such as Turkey. controlled by IS, without prior authority approval. The Conservative People's Party also supports the part of the bill that allows residence permits to be withdrawn in this country, and in this respect we would call for that provision to be applied as far as possible. We would have liked the draft law to also address the possibility of including citizenship with the people mentioned, but we must then work on that. Finally, it is rather strange that six months ago the government rejected our proposal to include passports in people suspected of wanting to travel to areas of conflict, and then put forward the bill itself today. But now, you can get smarter, and that shouldn't stop us from supporting the bill. But as we see it, the work is only half finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116113711	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. There are no brief remarks to her either. And then we move on to the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116113724	Yes, where do you start your speech on top of this debate? Of course, one could start by answering such a little more internal Christiansborg questions about a course of negotiations, about a pool of measures in connection with anti-radicalisation, or one could answer some of the specific questions. I could also give the speech written in the Ministry of Justice, where I examine the bill meticulously. There are, in fact, many possibilities. I think I will start a whole fourth place, namely by stating that what must be our most important task in the current situation in Denmark is to do what we can on the part of the government and the Danish Parliament to ensure the safety and security of the Danes. Because there is a serious threat to Danish society. We have all just witnessed an inhumane, undemocratic, radicalised and serious attack on not just French cartoons, against not only the free French society, but against all the values and ideals on which Denmark stands and must build. PET considers that there is a serious threat to Denmark; not that in our respective everyday lives we should be afraid, but understood that, like a number of other societies, there is a serious threat to Danish society. The West has been mentioned several times from the platform today with good reason. We have seen an attack on the Jewish museum in Brussels, we have seen several attacks in France. But this is not just a question of the West, and this is not just a question of Islam. A short time ago, they were schoolchildren in Pakistan. And while the rest of us have been concerned about the terrible conditions in France, perhaps thousands of people have lost their lives in Nigeria. We are not in a conflict between Islam and the West. We are in a conflict between a small totalitarian, reactionary, undemocratic and inhumane minority who are using their religion to suppress all of us on the one hand, and all of us, fortunately, who are the majority on the whole global stage, on the other. In this situation, of course, we must weigh our democracy, our open and free society and the tools we have from it, but at the same time we must not be naive either, because the current threat is serious. One of the things I'm most concerned with, and it's of course on the basis of police intelligence and their assessments, are the returned so-called holy warriors. If the young Danes, the young resident foreigners who turn their backs on Denmark, our democracy, leave to Syria and Iraq for example, go to the wrong side, fight for Islamic State, perhaps with serious crimes as a consequence, return to Danish society, then they risk constituting one of the biggest threats to Danish society. We know that they are radicalised; we know that there are undemocratic tendencies. And on top of that, we risk coming back with skills and competences that can be used against Danish society and our freedom. That's why this bill is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116114122	Let's get some rest, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116114124	We need to prevent young Danes leaving Syria. We need to prevent young Danes or residents from leaving Iraq. We would like to thank the government and I would like to thank for the general broad support it gives our authorities the opportunity to refrain from issuing passports and to withdraw passports and at the same time ensure that foreigners cannot return here if they do not comply with the rules. There are specific questions about the basis of suspicion and whether legal certainty is in place. It is in particular the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten who have asked that question. It is clear that with this bill we are going down a road that we do not have a tradition of in Denmark, because normally it is the case that a burden of proof must be lifted in order that a trial can be initiated at all and, of course, not least that people can be judged. When we need to take advantage of another way of working here, it is of course because if we are to be able to take the passport from people who intend to travel to Syria, we will not be able to have the same amount of evidence as we would need to have in many other contexts. There we must be able to respond to assumptions, not so that it is enough just to have a feeling that people might want to leave, because of course the police and intelligence services must have a clear presumption that this is what is going to happen and that it may have consequences either for the security of our own state, for public order or for the security of other states. Is this a path we must pursue in all sorts of contexts? No, of course not. This is a road we need to take because we are in a current and serious situation. Then there are a number of parties that want us to go further than the bill here. Among other things: in writing. - (PT) The Left Party has expressed its desire to impose a definitive entry ban on Syria and Iraq. I'm not dismissive of that idea. I find it very difficult to see the legitimate basis on which we need to leave Syria or Iraq today, and I do not deny at all that it should be added to the other initiatives we take from the government. It's also a big step. So, just as it is a big step to be able to deprive people of their passports on suspicion of activity in Syria, so, and I think we should be honest and say that in the debate, it will be a very big step when a state decides to ban entry to other countries. It's a big step. And I guess this is an approach that we know most from totalitarian societies. This does not mean that it cannot be a necessary way to go, but we must think very carefully. It must be designed in the right way and we must make all the necessary adjustments. That is why I will by no means promise the parties of the Folketing that we will have to make such a substantial change to our legal policy just with an amendment to a completely different draft law. I need to think carefully. I also hope that the Folketing will take on that task, because that is a major change in our way of working, which the Left and other bourgeois parties are proposing. That is why I fully agree with the statements made both by the Prime Minister of the country and also by myself that we are, of course, open to discussing all good proposals, but we do not come from the government to legislate with our heads under our arms or without making the necessary adjustments. I think that most people in this Chamber feel the same way as I do, namely that we want to react quickly because the problems are so serious. And we must do so with all the speed we can provide, but we must also do so wisely. On the other hand, what I do not understand is the desire for a sunset clause, that is, for this legislation to lapse in a few years' time. Why would you do that? If we believe in the need to prevent radicalised, reactionary and undemocratic indigenous forces from going to areas of conflict, who believes that this situation cannot also be found in 2, 4, 6, 8 or 10 years? New conflicts may arise and ongoing conflicts may take longer, and I would strongly urge that this legislation should not simply lapse. I am always willing to evaluate, I am always willing to reflect on our legislation, and I am always willing to discuss with the Folketing whether the legislation we have in the field of justice meets the needs we have. But to decide that legislation which I at least consider to be absolutely necessary in the defence of Syrian warriors, per. Automatically should lapse in a few years, I think is a strange way of working. Nor do I think it is entirely in keeping with the bourgeois desire to go further. So I would like it to be reconsidered in all its substance. I think it has been an excellent debate. I am not quite sure that there is popular support for the more internal Christiansborg discussion on a specific course of negotiations, and therefore I will not devote much effort to it either. I would just like to appeal for this matter, like others, not to be taken hostage. We have presented an action plan and we have had good meetings. I heard the rapporteurs say that too. First we had a long round in the Ministry of Social Affairs and then later in the Ministry of Justice. We have met a number of wishes, and I think that, overall, we have made the plan better together. And it suits the Folketing when we are able to bring different views together and qualify a proposal from a government, whether red or blue. So thank you from my side for a good and constructive course of negotiations. When we had our last meeting, it was my clear opinion that we were in agreement. There was something technical, we can say about the implementation, the design, among other things. of our desire to focus more on exit strategies, i.e. how to get back to the more normal society by one's own conviction or enticed by others. There have been some technicalities, and some of them have not been answered yet. But I do not think that is preventing us from making the general political agreement on an anti-radicalism plan, which we have proposed and on which we are in fact in agreement. Therefore, my appeal will be that we adopt the bill here so that the authorities have new tools in the totally, absolutely necessary democratic fight against the Syrian warriors. Let us agree on our anti-radicalisation plan with the changes that both the SF and the bourgeois parties have wanted. On top of the new proposal that has been put forward, for example on an actual entry ban, let us do that work in a qualified and enlightened way, and then it can be discussed afterwards. With those words, I would like to thank you for the treatment and I am listening to the broad support for the draft law here. In all silence, I would just like to note that the Enhedslisten does not want to back it up and, like other rapporteurs, I think we need some answers from the left on how they will deal with the problems that exist. Because I just want to say that in this case prevention is not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116114919	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116114925	I am also wondering whether I should put a question to the Minister for Justice, which is about the process and about the discussion that the Minister himself started in the Chamber the other day, when the Minister for Justice was hanging out at the bourgeois parties. I am also wondering whether I should blame the Minister for not having transmitted any material whatsoever on what we agreed on, or whether I should ask the Minister for Justice about the amendment that we are going to table in connection with this matter, which concerns what the Minister for Justice quite rightly calls an entry ban on Syria and Iraq. Will the governing parties vote in favour of that amendment, or will the governing parties vote in favour of a motion for a resolution that we are putting forward here in the Assembly on the same subject? Or what process does the Minister of Justice envisage with regard to what the bourgeois parties have proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115027	Well, first of all, I would like to say that I am not blaming the bourgeois parties for anything in this course of negotiations. I am just appealing for it to be completed. The only ones I blame in this context are the Syrian warriors and the adult people around those who do not take their responsibility seriously in dealing with the problems we have with radicalisation, for example some of the statements we have seen in connection with the Grimm High Mosque. I do not think there is any basis for us to blame each other for anything in the Folketing in this matter; I think we work well, constructively and wisely together, and we are in the process of providing a much better legal basis than what has been in the past. It's just to get it right. Will I then help to make a very fundamental change to our legal policy on the basis of an amendment? No, I certainly will not promise that, because it is now my job, even when we want to work together quickly, to be the one who, as the country's Minister of Justice, keeps his head cold and ensures that we make our decisions and make our deliberations on the right basis. I do not reject the idea of an entry ban, but I would like to make sure that, if we are to introduce it into Danish law, we do so in the right, the wise and the thoughtful way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115139	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115140	That is precisely why I would like to ask the Minister for Justice what kind of process the Minister for Justice is so imagining that we could start. I can almost hear between the lines that the governing parties intend to vote against the bourgeois parties' amendments on this, i.e. the entry ban, and will probably also vote 'no' and the Minister of Justice will have to correct me if I am wrong about a resolution if we table one. But what more concrete process does the Minister of Justice envisage so that we can initiate together, in the best, loving, cooperative spirit of this Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115219	Congregation and unity are abundant; I do not know whether it also needs to be loving, but if that is what it takes, we will also use the working method. We're on it. In other words, the Ministry of Justice has actually begun to identify what we should be thinking about if we want to introduce an entry ban. A practical legal work is under way. I think the idea is so interesting that we have to uncover it. That is why I have asked the Ministry of Justice to take up the considerations that must always be considered when making changes to our legislation, especially as radical as what is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115302	The next brief remark is from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115305	Thank you. I would therefore like to acknowledge that the Ministry of Justice has started to uncover the possibility that the amendment that we are several parties wishing to be implemented can be done in the view of the government. I think that makes sense. I would then like the government to do some work to see if better opportunities could be provided for, for example. to withdraw citizenship. That may be too much to ask for in this round, but that would now be quite reasonable. I'd like to ask about something else. It's about when the law comes into force. I can read that the law will come into force on 1 March of this year. I would like to know if the Minister for Justice really does not see any reason why we are working towards the entry into force of the bill a little faster. Because I think it would be very sensible, and it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party think we have been waiting a long time for this, but we think it would be very sensible if we sent the signal that we are working towards it coming into force as soon as possible. And it must be possible to do this more quickly than by 1 March.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115407	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115408	I can answer that very briefly. I would also like it to come into force as soon as possible. The second point I want to make is that I have not said that I will be voting in favour of an amendment. I have specifically said that I think the idea is interesting. It may also be necessary. I would like to provide an adequate basis for decision both for us as a government, but hopefully also for you as a Parliament. Basically, I find it very, very difficult to see that we are making major changes to our legal policy in Denmark with amendments. There, I think, this is the ordinary way of legislation we should go. So I am not saying yes to an amendment, I am saying yes to testing that idea, but to do so on a qualified and enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115453	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115455	Thank you. That's not what I signed for either, so I haven't made myself clear enough, but it was the legal process that was set in motion in the Ministry of Justice that I signed for. After all, it is always a start. It's gotta start somewhere. However, I also heard that the Minister for Justice was in this way in favour of the legislative proposal coming into force more quickly, if possible. Then I would like to ask whether the Minister for Justice will go back to his ministry and see if there is a chance that it can enter into force more quickly. Because if we all agree that we need to act quickly with some initiatives, there is no reason to wait until 1 March.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115528	I'll be happy to find out if we can make it even faster. There are some things that we need to have in place, and that is why the date is 1 March. But I'll be happy to check it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115539	Then we move on to the next brief remark, and it is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115544	After all, it was genuine news that came from the Minister for Justice that we are examining our proposal for an entry ban. I think that is a good thing, and I would like to acknowledge that. I have some sympathy for the fact that the Minister of Justice cannot stand on the floor today and say that we are voting in favour of an amendment. What the Minister for Justice could then do was to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution, because a motion for a resolution makes it possible for the Minister for Justice and the Ministry of Justice to get the ball together and to put together a bill which will be right, wise and well thought out, to use the words of the Minister for Justice now, because there is no way, as an opposition, of putting the whole of the office in motion to draw up its legislative proposals with comments and so on. So if we could land it there that the Minister of Justice expresses his support for the idea, but that the process itself must of course be right, wise and considered with talented people in the Ministry of Justice as pen leaders, then I think we can reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115651	Yes, but we need to know what we are dealing with, because just as easy it is to say that the authorities should be able to deprive people of the passport, just as easy it is to say that entry bans should be applied. But we will have to legislate I will do so, at least as the Minister of Justice of the country knows: what exactly is the material content of the legislative changes we want? And that's why this has to be properly unveiled. Because even if we end up there, if we end up making the decision that we want to make that ban, then it's going to be far-reaching. It is very, very violent that a state tells its inhabitants where to go and where not to go. That is why we must do it with great care, and I want to know the material content before I take a position on it. I would say in general terms that I do not think that any of us can afford to say in the situation in which the world is in and Denmark is in, that because it is a political opponent who makes a proposal, one will not consider it. My prime task as the country's Minister of Justice is to take care of the safety and security of the Danes, and if there are other parties in the Danish Parliament who can come up with good ideas to achieve that goal, then I am not the one who rejects them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115808	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115809	Well, I think it's nice that you don't reject things because they come from a political opponent. Imagine if it could spread and become a habit that would be positive for the whole people's regime. But when the minister talks about what is far-reaching, it is basically more far-reaching to take the passport from people and say that they are not allowed to go anywhere, but are allowed to stay in Denmark rather than say: You can travel wherever you like, but you should not go down there where there is war and trouble, because there we are afraid that you will join a fight which is a battle against Denmark. What the government has proposed is more far-reaching than what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115854	I think you have to be careful to compare the two, but that's what I said in my speech as well. That is what we regard as one of the more fundamental aspects of exercising our right to travel freely. That, of course, is why Mr. Martin Henriksen and others think that things are taking a little too long, because here too a number of necessary considerations have had to be considered about the scope of the proposal and, of course, also the possibility of having it tested in the courts. It is and I feel that, although it is far-reaching, I am fully behind the draft law because I believe it is necessary that we put in place adequate safeguards to prevent people leaving for Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115940	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116115944	I hear the Minister say that this bill is not enough, but I hear the Minister also say that we cannot immediately support a bourgeois proposal, but that we will now look into it in the Ministry of Justice. I can also be a little optimistic about the fact that such a proposal will hardly be uncovered if it is not also politically sympathetic to it, and that is why I think it is actually quite easy to say today that it is a good proposal that the bourgeois people have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120015-2	But listen, and forgive me, but the situation is in its own unhappy way far too serious for such ordinary political teasing. When I, as Minister of Justice, start my speech today by saying that there is a serious threat, including to Danish society, it is of course my main task to uncover all the facts that we can initiate and implement in order to avoid the threats that exist. And we are a long way in Denmark, we have an effective intelligence service, we have a skilled police force, and tools have been provided along the way that have helped to counteract attacks, including against Danish society. What we are doing right now by the government is building on an already strong and good foundation. We have our own ideas for which we seek the support of the Danish Parliament. I'm glad we're getting to this very vital bill. And then I have the basic view that, when ideas come in from others, they are tested. I will not take a position on a very, very far-reaching change in Danish legal policy until I have a proper professional basis to stand on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120123	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120125	Well, I don't think the Minister should ever see this as a political joke. For me, it's really just important to find out how far the government is prepared to go. Well, now we heard Enhedslisten, but we heard SF say that they thought that with this law we were in the finish line, and then you didn't have to do any more. I just have to say that the Conservative People's Party is of a slightly different opinion. In fact, we think there is still some way to go. Of course it is good and fine with the soft elements, but it also means that they need to be coupled with the hard elements and that we need to try to counteract it to a much greater extent and take a hard stand against people who are leaving. That is why I am really just trying, both for the sake of what has happened in Belgium, but also for what has happened in France and which we should not like to see happening in Denmark, to find out how far the government is prepared to go. It should not be seen as political teasing; it should actually be seen as a genuine desire to see what the government is willing to do, and I hope that the Minister will get it out of it at least today, that there are a number of parties who would like to stand behind the Minister in doing something that is more hard-hitting than what has been achieved so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120230	What is my approach and, as a matter of principle, my starting point for the discussion, including with regard to the intelligence service and our fight against terrorism in the coming years, is the following: the serious forms of crime we are facing, not least with regard to terrorism, are cross-border in nature; they are, moreover, in every possible way cross-border, but also physical. There are hard-boiled criminals and the risks associated with terror. They are constantly finding new ways, constantly taking new initiatives and constantly finding new tools. Our task is to ensure that we have authorities in Denmark that match what the others can to prevent, to counteract, but of course also to respond. There will always be a balance between legal certainty, personal freedom and our ability to counter terrorism, but my very principle is that we need to be able to match the darkened forces that do not wish the Danish society well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120333	Well, then, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll also asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120336	Thank you. After all, we have had a little discussion of each day, and as far as prevention is concerned, it may have been a little sharpened up, but if we end up getting the process going then it is actually a good thing. At least I expect one of the days here to come an e-mail from the Justice Department so we can move on. As far as tightening up is concerned, we have said that we want to take part in this, and that is also the signal I have sent here today. Then there are questions of legal certainty and freedoms, which are of great concern to us too, and we have therefore, as one, proposed a sunset clause, and I am glad that we are avoiding the Minister. However, the second is what I also asked about earlier, that is to say, the question of the basis of suspicion, and I would just like to emphasise that I agree with the Minister that we must be able to react quickly. But that is not actually the part of what I am so worried about; it is more what is going to happen in relation to the grounds of suspicion in subsequent judicial proceedings. It may be easier to ask some written questions in order to get closer, but I hope that the Minister will be prepared for us to be able to take some discussions of that corner, because that is at least something we are concerned about in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120443	But I fully understand that they are involved in this. It goes without saying that when we choose something that I believe to be far-reaching, the question of legal certainty is of course absolutely crucial, both because of the scope of the proposal, but also for more fundamental reasons, and I am very happy to answer specific questions, including in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120504	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120506	I noticed in the consultation process that something has actually been clarified in relation to the scope, which is why it might also be possible to clarify something in relation to the grounds of suspicion. I am not here to throw off the Minister a promise of something, that is to say, because we are having a talk about it here, she has already promised me that something is going on, but it might well be that when it comes to the grounds of suspicion, as in the area of application, we could come to the conclusion that we could just clarify it and thus actually satisfy ourselves in relation to some of the concerns that we and others have expressed, and I hope that there is an openness to that. Because you shouldn't be able to deny that we can actually find each other, even on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120552	I certainly do not reject that. I do not have anything that I myself worry about in this context, but like what applies in all other processes, I am always responsive if there are important opinions or good proposals. Let us take it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120610	As no one else has asked to speak, I thank the Minister for Justice and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120634	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116120659	It is always the case that when we deal with cases which have a certain connection with each other, in the immediate wake of each other, there will also be a number of repetitions in the speeches. What we are discussing here is part of the same problem as what we have just mentioned, namely the situations in which Danish citizens or residents with a residence permit in Denmark travel and, for example, contribute, as we are currently seeing, with the Islamic State in the Middle East. I have the basic and clear position that Danes should not, of course, be able to participate with impunity in armed struggle against Danish soldiers. That goes without saying. It is basically an absurd and grotesque situation that this happens when we send out Danish soldiers, Danish material, at the invitation of the Iraqi Government to defeat the Islamic State. It is an organization that, in thought and action, is inhumane, committed and commits enormous crimes against humanity and is a threat to all of us. We do so on the one hand, and on the other hand, there are young Danes or residents of foreigners who go out and call themselves so-called holy warriors, go on the wrong side, fight against democracy and, in concrete cases, also against Danish soldiers. When it takes place, it seems to me to be treason. That is why, of course, we must do what we can to prevent those concerned from leaving. We have just discussed this and we must also do everything we can to ensure that those concerned are prosecuted when they return. So none of us, I would like to say, disagree, I think, in the aim of this discussion, but perhaps rather in the approach. The Criminal Code already contains a number of provisions which, depending on the circumstances, can be used to punish individuals engaged in armed struggle against Danish soldiers. And let me just say in this connection that several different provisions of the criminal code can be violated by the same act. We have, for example. It is a clause that can be used if a person commits or contributes to acts of terrorism, and it also applies to section 114 e of the Criminal Code, among other things. to promote the activity of groups or associations which commit or intend to commit terrorist acts. That provision will be applicable if a person takes part in armed struggle on behalf of a group or group that commits or intends to commit terrorist acts and thereby promotes the activities of the group or association. This is true even if the person himself does not help to commit the acts of terrorism itself. Also, when there is no direct terrorism, Danes will be able to be punished for taking part in armed struggle against Danish soldiers, as the case may be. The general rules of the Criminal Code on violence and killing also apply in that situation. As the legal rapporteurs are well aware, the criminal code does not directly apply the concept of treason. There is a clause 102 which contains a provision for assistance to the enemy during the war, which among other things. include serving in the armed forces of an enemy military force. That paragraph has a few years on the back. It has been established immediately after World War II, and I and the government think it is essential to identify and define whether we can also use the provisions in relation to the situations in which Danish soldiers are involved today. That is, for example, the case. the question of war. Does it also include armed conflicts against a non-governmental group, and does war include armed conflicts which are not in practice liable to affect Danish territory? Therefore, the Government has asked the Criminal Law Council to assess the question of the criminal treatment of Danes' participation in armed conflicts abroad. Here, too, we are dealing with a rather difficult legal balance, among other things. in relation to the basis of international law, and we need to have that in place. The Criminal Code Council works at a pace that may sometimes be a little incompatible with my own a little impatient being, I must be honest and say. I have great respect for the fact that you have to do your job in the right way, but of course I would like us to get on with this issue as quickly as possible, and that is why I have actually, and not as often as the Minister of Justice has asked the Criminal Justice Council to advance the work so that they will be able to give a partial opinion on the very issue of participation in and recruitment to armed conflicts abroad. This work will be completed before the summer of 2015. Then, of course, my hope is that we will have an even stronger and clearer basis than is the case today. It is important, I think, just to say two things in conclusion. It is not the case that there are no provisions in place to punish those concerned today. There is. I would just like to have many ways into possible prosecution, because I think it is crucial if the burden of proof can be lifted at all, that people are held responsible for any atrocities they may have done, for example in Syria or Iraq. The second thing I just want to say in conclusion is that there is one area in which I think it is important that we take the right position as a society. Of course, we must in no way accept the totally unacceptable behaviour that is behind it when Danes or resident foreigners turn their backs on Denmark and fight for the Islamic State, as we see right now in Syria and Iraq. There is only reason to distance ourselves from such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121305	Thank you, Minister. There are at least a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121311	It is to the question of what is so commonly referred to as the country-rogue or treason clause in the penal code. 'Cause I saw the Minister of Justice tone out in the best airtime at 9:00 a.m. 21.30, I think it was, the other night, and say, contrary to what the government has said earlier, that if you are up against Danish forces abroad, it is treason. That's what we've been saying for a long time. So it is only good that we have now dragged the minister to the trough. And now we also need the minister to drink from that trough. So I would like to ask the Minister whether he will use his powers and authority to ask the prosecution to bring a trial.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121352	I would just like to arrest the premise that there should be a turnaround on the part of the government. At no time have we spoken against the use of the concept of treason. There was a situation in the autumn during such a rather semi-umultarian scenes here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where what we were actually gathered to discuss was to be able to contribute to the international coalition in Iraq. That is when the Left wanted a debate on the treason issue, which is, in fact, relevant. And what the discussion was about in those hours was whether to delay the entire Danish participation in the coalition or not. At the time, the government said very wisely, I think that it would of course be necessary to include the Criminal Law Council in the work, because this is also a relatively complex matter. So it is not a turnaround, although I have seen the concept used in several different places.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121451	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121452	Now my question was essentially whether the minister will use his powers to ask the prosecution to raise a trial so that we can test whether you can judge these traitors for treason or judge them according to the provisions of the penal code which are mentioned in the bill of lading • are about treason.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121517	I am generally very, very careful to ask the prosecution for something. So am I in this case. It is a matter for the prosecution, as soon as the evidence is available, to have the cases brought.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121534	The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121538	Thank you. If the Minister for Justice really means what the Minister for Justice says, then I am almost tempted to ask the simple question whether the Minister for Justice does not support the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, because everything else will put some pressure on the government itself, and it may well be that in some internal struggles in the government it might help the minister. I don't know, but you could have that thought. Sometimes I have it with the government, as the Minister of Justice has it with the Criminal Law Council, that it sometimes goes a little sluggish, so the minister is not alone, I would say. But I would like an answer as to whether the Minister can indicate whether the government will support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. Then you can put action behind words. At any rate, that process is getting off to a good start. And my second question is whether the Minister really will not now ask his officials to start making a proposal on how to clarify the text of the legislation, possibly make some new paragraphs and then in the comments on those paragraphs write very clearly that what we are also aiming for is the conflict currently taking place in Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121648	It is always the case when we make our general legislation in Denmark, for example. in the area of criminality, it should not be provisions and clauses relating to a specific event. They must be able to be used from a general point of view that there are forms of crime for which we do not want to be punished. You can't say it any more clearly than I do. I believe that it is to be regarded as treason if, right now, you go to the Middle East and fight for the Islamic State against Danish forces. And it is not only in the situation where you directly attack or shoot; it is also when you assist the enemy against the Danish forces. So clearly it can be said and so clearly it is said on my part. The Criminal Code Council has been asked to advance their work so that we can have a partial opinion within a reasonable period of time, and then, of course, I am ready to take the necessary initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121744	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121746	The Minister says this very clearly, and that is, in fact, the clarity that we believe should come into the legislation. That is why the question remains the same: does the Minister for Justice support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party? When you listen to what the Minister for Justice says, it would of course make a lot of sense if the Minister for Justice actually indicated that she supported the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution or otherwise would quickly start to ensure that the legislation was clarified. I would just like to say that this cannot be the first time that the comments on a paragraph provide some concrete examples of how the paragraph can be used. It won't be the first time. That's why you could do it if you wanted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121823-2	We do not support the motion for a resolution, but we have initiated the process which we believe to be the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121833	Then there is at least one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121836	I understand the Minister's reply to Mr. Martin Geertsen's question that the Minister will not ask the prosecution to try to raise a case. The Minister rejected that, and I would just like to know why. Why not test whether the current legal basis is strong enough to convict people of treason, when the Minister for Justice clearly says that, in the view of the Minister for Justice, it is to be regarded as treason if you fight against the Danish troops? Why, then, does the Minister of Justice not use his influence and opportunities as a minister to ask the prosecution to raise a trial? Why doesn't the minister want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121912-2	There are two reasons for this. The evidence must be present and I will always be careful to take the step of asking the prosecution to do something concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121924	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116121926	But I guess we'll only be able to see if the evidence is there once it's been tried by a court of law. I have a little fear that this may be due to the Minister's concern that the prosecution will report back and say that the law is not strong enough. But that's all if and if and if. It would be rewarding for the debate if the Minister of Justice were to say now that, as you can understand in the media, we know of a number of people who have been there, some of whom have returned. Why not try it out in the courts to find out whether the evidence is there, whether the law is strong enough for the legislation in force to be able to convict these people under the rule of treason, which we are now, fortunately, all agreed is what is at issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116122016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116122017	I have a very, very clear expectation that the authorities will raise the cases to be raised if the evidence is present.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116122024	Then there are no further brief comments, and I thank the Minister for Justice. We can then move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116122046	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for having put forward a proposal which we in the Left perhaps most of all interpret as a hint with a rod to the government that the necessary proposals must finally be put forward in order to combat, within the framework of the rule of law, the so-called holy warriors and radicalisation in general. We are in favour of this and we are voting in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal. In fact, as I mentioned in the previous paragraph, we have repeatedly appealed to the government to take the situation seriously. But I have to say that, in general terms, there are more harsh words than hard deeds in the country's Minister of Justice. Let me just give you a few examples. The other day, the country's Minister of Justice in this Chamber accused the bourgeois parties of blocking an agreement on prevention. I think that, in fact, and I have mentioned this before, namely in the previous paragraph, is quite wild. It's almost over in the horror. When we left our last meeting in the Ministry of Justice at the beginning of December, it was and I think I am speaking on behalf of all civil parties with the feeling that we almost agreed, that we would soon be invited to a final meeting on prevention, and that the Minister of Justice agreed with us on the objections we had to the original proposal from the government. Since then, we have heard nothing from either the Minister for Justice or the Minister for Integration, absolutely nothing. No invitations, no meetings, nothing. It is therefore strong cases when you have to listen to the fact that it is the blue parties that delay the process. But let's just leave it alone. I would just like to urge and urge the government to invite the final negotiations as soon as possible so that we can get this prevention process on track. My question is: will the government accept the invitation of the blue parties to conclude the negotiations yes or no? Let me take another example. The other day, the Minister for Justice said that she regards it as treason, if Danish citizens and people staying here in the country are also to be understood as fighting Danish forces abroad. Among the bourgeois parties we think: Better late than never; let us finally get to grips with some cases before the Danish courts after the so-called country fraud clauses in the penal code. But when you see, as we did just now, the Minister of Justice goes to the blade and asks if she will use her authority to the prosecution and ask for a case to be brought, the answer is between silence and no. Can we not ask the Minister for Justice or any other representative of the government parties here today to inform us in clear and unambiguous terms whether the Minister for Justice will ask the prosecution to raise one or more cases against returned Syrians after the reported national frauds clause yes or no? Let me take a third example. The other day the Prime Minister of the country spoke in the Chamber on a question from the Chairman of the Left, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, that the government is open to looking at the opposition's proposals to combat radicalisation, including, in particular, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech in the previous paragraph, to prohibit residence in terror zones without prior authority approval. But what does "openness " mean? Is that a 'yes' or a 'no' to the proposals of the blue parties? From a political point of view, are we in the governing parties for or against the proposals of the blue parties? You have to tell the Minister of Justice that the Minister of Justice works well on TV. The Minister of Justice says the right things, the Minister of Justice seems tough on the flint, but is that anything and more than talk? Let us have answers to our questions, and the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party is quite an excellent one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116122439	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116122455	The Danish People's Party will require the government to make legislative proposals which make it clear that Danish nationals or persons with a residence permit in Denmark who, directly or indirectly, through an organisation are in armed conflict with Danish forces abroad, are thereby committing a criminal act. To fight against Danish forces cannot and must not be defended. It is difficult to find words for how unacceptable and cowardly it is when Danish soldiers are turned into targets for Danish extremists. That is true, no matter what reason one has for going to holy war... it must be condemned in every way. Let me start by stating that it is a criminal offence, and it must also be a part of the distasteful struggles of the terrorist movement. In addition, the Criminal Code already contains a number of provisions that can be used to punish persons taking part in armed fighting against Danish soldiers. This also applies to section 114 of the Criminal Code and the general rules of the Criminal Code on violence and killing, and they also apply, of course, to attacks against Danish soldiers. So what we are discussing today is not whether it should be a criminal offence to go to war in Syria or Iraq, for example; that is what paragraph should be charged against. As I hope it is clear to everyone here, the government already asked in the autumn of the Criminal Law Council to assess the issue of the criminal treatment of Danes' participation in armed conflicts abroad as part of the government's action plan to prevent radicalisation and extremism. This work has now been put on turbo and the opinion must be given before the summer break. Let me repeat that the penalty for participation in so-called holy war is high. We Social Democrats support the investigation into whether the legal definition of treason can also be used as a punishment, and on this basis we would like to see a possible adjustment of legislation. There should be no doubt that we are strongly opposed to participation in the fight against Danish soldiers. However, we are rejecting the resolution here today because we want a solid legal basis before we start amending the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116122716	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116122735	Thank you. Normally, when the Danish People's Party makes motions for resolutions at least within the rapporteur's areas, which I cover, it does not usually take many seconds until I know for sure that I am against. That is the way we are two parties, which are in many ways opposites. But when I got this motion for a resolution in my hand, my immediate thought and listen now to the Danish People's Party that we couldn't possibly be against it. Because we believe that participation in armed conflict should be avoided, but we recognise that it is most right at times that Denmark engages, also militarily, in the fight for a world in which more people can live freely and democratically with each other. However, our fundamental hesitation towards militarism applies, of course, and even more so to Danes who are fighting with weapons against the Danish soldiers that we have sent out into the world to fight for us and for what we believe in. And that is why I thought in the first place that it could not possibly be true that, under current legislation, you will not be punished if you fight against Danish forces abroad. I was able to see that, but I think, as the Minister for Justice also said in his speech, it is important to examine whether the legislation also takes sufficient account of the situation in which Danish soldiers have to fight against other Danes who are on the side of the enemy. The government has put the Criminal Law Council to investigate this, and the Minister for Justice has now speeded up this investigation so that we can get a statement from it before the summer. We are awaiting it in the Radical Left and therefore we cannot support the motion for a resolution anyway, although we actually share the view on the grotesqueness of Danish soldiers sent by the Danish Parliament being placed in armed conflict with other Danes. We are willing to look at how to avoid and, if necessary, be punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116122954	I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur from the SF, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123008	We have already had a long debate today on various initiatives, and I think we have been talking about many different things. I think that there is a good plan from the government, which contains both a new criminal justice defence, but also something preventive. I think it is important that you walk on two legs in that effort. In fact, I am also pleased that the Criminal Code Council is looking at the issue outlined here in the resolution in question. We look forward to it. I have recently stated in the press that I would like to help look at how we can use these so-called traitor clauses in a new version or how it might be. There is no doubt that if you can arrange them in a way that makes the burden of proof easier to lift, it will be very, very good, because, as I said, it is a problematic signal to young people that we have not managed to bring anyone to account yet. So we support the presentation that the government has sent to the Criminal Law Council and, although it was a fine proposal from the Danish People's Party, we cannot support it. We are going to wait for the work of the Criminal Law Council, but we agree in principle that it should be seen after.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123131	We thank Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. This did not give rise to any brief comments either. We move on to the next rapporteur, and this is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123141	I will not spend too much time repeating what several people have said from up here. The Criminal Code Council is looking at this, and it's perfectly natural to wait for it. So let me just note that there is no need to worry that it is not criminal to go down and fight with the Islamic State in Syria or North Iraq and commit the atrocities committed by that organisation. It will fall within the scope of terrorist regulations or war crimes, so it is not because people are going free while we are awaiting the Criminal Law Council. Of course it must be prosecuted and punished if you commit such atrocities. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123230	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. Then we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123241	It seems as if there is a broad consensus that it should be punished if you attack Danish soldiers abroad or help to do so, that it should also be punished more severely, and that the discussion is then apparently primarily about the passage in the motion for a resolution, which is that it should be amended by a legislative proposal in this session. Others would rather wait for the Criminal Law Council to be completed, and that would apparently not be until the next session. Instead of saying in the motion for a resolution that the government was required to table a bill in the next parliamentary assembly, I suppose it would have been more or less just expressed in the government's policy that sounds at least as if. You can hope that you have to interpret it that way, because otherwise it's just outside talk, so it's just an excuse that you really don't want to be there, but you want to act like you want to do something about it, and you want to act like you want to tighten up. However, if we are to take the words at face value, in fact both from the Minister and from the Socialist and the radical rapporteur, then we must assume that in the next Assembly the parties, even if they do not have to sit in government at that time, will support such a proposal. And then everything's fine. We can back up already now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123400	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. There are also no brief comments, and we go to Mrs Mai Mercado, who is rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123408	We in the Conservative People's Party fully agree that it must be possible to prosecute those involved in armed conflict against Danish forces abroad. And we must recognise that there is a need to look at whether the rules are good enough. In this context, we have noted with satisfaction that the Minister for Justice has asked the Criminal Code Council to assess whether the rules in force in the Criminal Code provide adequate safeguards against participation in and recruitment to armed conflicts abroad. In this context, we would like to call on the Minister to ensure that this task is given a very high priority. The motion for a resolution is a good opportunity to see whether the rules are good enough or whether there is a need for tightening up. We agree with the aim of the resolution, namely to ensure that participation in armed conflicts against Danish forces abroad is punishable and, at the same time, to ensure that the persons concerned are actually indicted if it is possible to lift the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123459	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. Nor did it give rise to brief comments. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123511	Thank you. And thank you for the positive comments, including those from the Radical Left. Then I've tried it, too. That's great. What this is all about is that I should say it very briefly; I think it is now clear to most people, but nevertheless for the sake of good order it is that for example. The Center for Terror Analysis, CTA, which is, after all, part of the Police Intelligence Service, that is PET, let me start there, after all, has assessed in an analysis of the terrorist threat to Denmark of 12 December last year that the threat is serious and that the conflict in Syria and Iraq is the main factor in the threat picture. The CTA estimates that the total number of persons who are or have been left for the conflict in Syria and Iraq is at least 110, but also points out that the figure can actually be higher. At least 15 of the expatriates have, according to PET's assessment, been killed, including in connection with e.g.: suicide actions in Iraq for the Islamic State. So it's like making it clear that these are the kind of people we're dealing with here. Participation in the war can indeed be an act directed against Danish forces, that is, against Danish soldiers who have travelled out with a mandate from the Danish Parliament. So far, none of the so-called Syrian warriors have been charged and convicted under Danish law for having participated in armed conflict against Danish forces abroad. And if these acts are not criminals under current legislation, the necessary changes in the criminal code should be made, which clearly criminalises actions directed against Danish forces, against Danish soldiers abroad. We believe that it should hit people if they are Danish citizens or they are people with a residence permit in Denmark. So the changes, which come either with this resolution or with the initiative taken by the government, must ensure as far as possible that it is easier to lift the burden of proof in these cases. In reply to the Danish Parliament, the Minister of Justice states that the question depends on whether it can be proved that the persons concerned have committed a criminal offence and that it is ultimately based on a concrete assessment by the courts. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that this supports the need for the proposed changes in legislation to clearly criminalise actions directed against Danish forces abroad. It can by its very nature be difficult to prove that a person has committed a criminal offence in the presence of an armed conflict, and if the relevant legislation is not sufficiently clear and clear, it will not be easier to lift the burden of proof. That is why something needs to be done and something needs to be done quickly. And although I welcome the positive comments that the Danish People's Party's proposal has received from all parties, I would still like to call for the process to be speeded up so that it can be clarified more quickly than the government has proposed, so that we can come after these people. And this should preferably be done in this assembly. The Danish People's Party considers that the government's efforts in this area are not sufficient. There is a need for the government to take the initiative quickly to bring the changes into effect, so that it is clear that Danish citizens or persons with a residence permit in Denmark, who through an organisation are in armed conflict with Danish forces abroad, commit a criminal act and will be prosecuted if they return to Denmark. That's it, sir. President.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123834	Yes, one should be careful not to listen with both one ear and the other ear, but nevertheless, Mr. Martin Henriksen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. So, I'm gonna say thank you to sir. Martin Henriksen. As far as I can see, no one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123909	I understand that, despite the very long title, it has to be done in five minutes for all the rapporteurs, so I look forward to that with great pleasure. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116123940	Thank you. After all, we in the tax group have some experience in dealing with legislative proposals in the field of taxation, which relate to a great many things at once. Everything good from the sea we usually call them, and it can be said that we are also dealing with it here. Perhaps there were other things that could have been more exciting to discuss today than the individual elements, but I will come back to that. I think, then, that if we have followed the debate that has taken place in the area of taxation during the week, we know that it might have been more interesting to discuss the very changing attitude of the government towards the possibility of making anonymous reviews online. There is certainly a government meeting I would have liked to have attended, because it was first abolished and now it is being reinstated, but we will have to discuss that at another time. We have to take the bill that lies ahead of us. All good things from the sea can be called it, but there are a number of clarifications, relaxations and adjustments that basically make very good sense. First of all, the draft law amends the rules on exit tax for natural persons. So that's the tax you meet when you leave the country, if you have unrealised gains. So far, the rules have been such that one had to settle the tax completely when one left Danish tax liability. There has then been an EU judgment which says that the Danish rules have been too rigid and prevent free movement, and therefore there is a proposal to relax the rules on how the exit tax is to be paid. Instead of falling due in one chop, it must be distributed over seven years. On the Left side, we think it is sensible to relax when criticism has been levelled at it, but also to ensure that the Danish tax rules do not hinder freedom of movement. So we agree with that, and I can actually tell you now that we can support the other many parts of the proposal. This applies to reductions in the interest relief rules, the adjustments resulting from the amendments to the parent and subsidiary directive, so as to ensure that no double non-taxation is achieved. I guess it's just too lenient. There must, of course, be clarity that the tax will be deducted in the country in question, which has a tax liability, but so that we do not have the possibility of double non-taxation. Then there are relaxations in the application of the stock principle to exchange rate changes. This is an area which, for some, has caused some problems and asymmetry in tax legislation. By relaxing the rules, an inappropriate approach is being put in place and an opportunity is being given to companies to act in an appropriate way also fiscally, without causing them any problems. In the case of district heating plants, the proposal means that they will be able to separate secondary activities from a subsidiary, so that the tax exemption on the core activity of district heating plants is not altered by side activities. It also meets a desire from the industry, and it makes sense that the tax freedom that applies is not challenged by any side activities, so that what is the main activity also suddenly becomes subject to tax liability. The fact that it's being prepared makes sense. Finally, I would like to mention the rules relating to what is called the leaser rule, which is also slightly clarified and relaxed. As the bill says, they have become too tight and have not quite followed in time. I must also say that when you look at the consultation answers generally given to the draft law, you see that there is generally good support. A number of the objections to the concrete form of the project, including: against the tenancy rule, has been complied with in relation to the bill which has been sent in consultation. It is always positive when consultation responses, which come up with proposals for clarifications and adjustments, are met, so we are sure that the legislation we adopt is also in line with the intention. I think it is nice to note that this has also been met. In general, I have to say that it is a mixed country trade, but with a number of sensible adjustments, clarifications and facilitations that make sense. That is why we in the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124419	I note that there is one brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124425	In this way, I agree with the rapporteur of the Left in the vast majority of what has been said. There is just one thing that I think we should spend a great deal of energy on together, and that is the change regarding exit tax, that is, taking a huge asset out of Denmark; the very biggest cases that have been around transfer pricing, that is, where you move taxable things out of Denmark to avoid paying taxes, have been about exit tax. Do we not agree in the Committee on Taxation that we need to use all the energy we need to be sure that we are not opening up here an opportunity for more taxable assets to be withdrawn from Denmark without paying tax? I certainly hope we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124509	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124511	Well, it's hard to disagree in principle with sir. Frank Aaen in the view that, of course, the tax should be paid. There's gonna be, among other things. in some of the consultation answers, raised some issues in relation to exit tax, but the tax minister says it is outside of this bill, because what is the challenge legislatively is the current rules on how an exit tax should be paid. And there is therefore a European judgment which says that what is happening today is too rich, that is to say, that it should fall immediately and that, instead, it should be settled over a seven-year period. I think that makes sense. The discussion on whether the exit rules should in general be changed is outside this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124601	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124603	Now I am not so enthusiastic about all the decisions of the European Union, as the rapporteur of the Left is, and I think we can sometimes challenge them. And what is the danger here is, of course, that an exit tax that is due will disappear, so that it simply cannot be recovered. That is just why I am saying that we may have to join forces because, of course, we need somewhere to comply with the various regulations of the European Union, but I really think that this is the most important part of this bill that we need to ensure that our protection against people cheating, and I would like to use the word cheating, in order to pay the tax they are going to pay in Denmark, is extended. And I think we agree on that. It wasn't so much a question, it was more of a statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124648	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen gets the floor anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124652	I can confirm that the tax to be paid by Danish companies and citizens must, of course, be settled, but I think that in the context of the EU judgment there is a point that if all countries operated with an exit tax that should fall due the moment when a citizen is in this case, when it is natural persons or company moving, it might impose restrictions on freedom of movement, which is clearly in favour of an economy such as the Danish one. That is why I have no problem with us responding to the EU judgment that has fallen. That doesn't mean you have to say okay that we let our debts disappear, but just that it has to be paid over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124738	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then I can give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116124747	Thank you for that, President. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left that with this bill we are once again getting around a great deal. I think I have previously called these bills, where we change and adjust many laws, rum bullets, and here we are again on a Friday with a lovely rum ball in the Chamber. Overall, there is, of course, a common feature for all the elements of the legislative proposal here: a desire to clarify a wide range of tax rules for business and to bring our legislation into line with EU law, both the directives and the judgments we know about. The rapporteur of the Left has, in fact, made a very good point on the vast majority of matters, so I would just like to say that it is true that, in relation to exit tax and graces, we are now correcting Danish legislation to suit the EU judgment that has come and to allow you to have a grace period of a maximum of seven years for traders. It is, of course, entirely in line with the grace regime which I, but other tax rapporteurs, together with the Minister, dealt with in this Chamber last February for the payment of exit tax by companies. We will also be implementing an amendment to the EU parent/subsidiary directive. It is, of course, a directive which was introduced to avoid double taxation when dividends are paid between parent companies and subsidiaries. Frank Aaen was talking about now. At home we have implemented the directive as a tax exemption for subsidiary dividends, but in July last year an amendment to the directive was adopted to ensure that double non-taxation cannot be speculated on, that is, that you cannot plan your way out, speculate as a company both on the payment side and on the tax freedom of the recipient. This can be described as common sense or, as it is, an important effort in relation to tax speculation. This is a change that we have helped to adopt on the Danish side, which is why it is also very good that we have it implemented in the legislation now and can thus stem the tide of cross-border tax speculation. Then there are a large number of other shortcomings in the current tax rules that we will have corrected. I think the rapporteur of the Left has looked at this very well and commended Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen for having gone through it in an exemplary way. I don't want to spend the time of the thing repeating all the details, but just say that the set aside for many of these changes is precisely the desire of the business sectors to update the applicable rules, because the time has run out of them. Overall, they contribute to greater clarity on the rules, and hopefully there is a very great deal of agreement here in the Danish Parliament that it is a question of having the clarity so that we can comply with the rules as we should. So, with that said, I cannot say quite surprisingly that the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116125042	I would like to thank Mrs Astrid Krag and give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Astrid Krag. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116125052	As the previous rapporteurs have said, this draft law deals with a number of different tax measures, and I do not want to go into all of them in depth, as the previous rapporteurs have mentioned many of the important things and outlined what this is all about. I will stick mainly to two of the measures. The first is the harmonisation of exit tax rules, whereby natural persons must be able to opt for deferred payment of the exit tax on the assets they take out of the country against a return on that amount over seven years. This is a change that comes on the basis of an EU judgment of 2013, which says that it is contrary to the freedom of establishment in EU law. It is, of course, the case that we have already adopted rules on deferrals for companies, and this is the case that we are now getting the same opportunity for business people as well in terms of working people. So it is a harmonisation of the rules that we in the Danish People's Party think is positive and therefore we can support that part of it. Another point I would like to mention is the adjustment of the rules on tax exemption for subsidiary dividends resulting from a change in the parent/subsidiary directive, a directive which was, after all, made in order to ensure that double taxation was avoided. But it has turned out that there have been some cases where it was found that some people also received double non-taxation. This bill will then change that, and it is quite reasonable to do so. As I said, there are a number of other steps in this proposal that we have no comments on, so I can say that the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116125233	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. At first sight, I do not see any rapporteur from the Radical Left or, for that matter, from the SF in the Chamber. On the other hand, I see Mr. Frank Aaen, who is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, so I will give the floor to Mr Aaen. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116125259	As I said in one of the brief remarks, it is probably the issue of exit taxation that concerns us most. Now I am not going to say that I have quite grasped what this law is changing in this area, but in some of the biggest cases that have been about avoiding paying taxes in Denmark, as with Intel, Microsoft and some of the other companies Novo, we could also mention, by moving assets out of the country and then saying that they are virtually worthless or at least have a very low value, they avoid paying taxes, and then later they get a huge income from the assets in question in other countries where the tax is lower than it is in Denmark. Now I have spent some time on the fact that Coca Cola does not pay taxes in Denmark, that Nestlé largely does not pay taxes in Denmark, and that other multinational companies largely do not pay taxes or pay 0 kr. in tax in Denmark. But where most of the money has disappeared out of the country, it is really about what you call exit tax, because you avoid paying taxes on values you have created in Denmark, have deducted from taxes in Denmark, that is to say the cost, and when income comes, earnings are moved to a country where the tax is lower. That's what worries us most in this bill. Although what we also mentioned here is an EU provision that apparently forces us to do something we did not want to do in advance, we must be absolutely sure that we are not doing anything that opens a tax gap unnecessarily large in relation to companies being able to avoid paying taxes. Then there are other things in the bill that just seem like common sense to change. The fact that there are some who, through double taxation agreements, can avoid paying tax on certain incomes, that it is changed and it is closed, of course, we support. That is why I am also counting on us to support the legislative proposal in its entirety, but we will work a little with the exit tax in committee, that is to say with the possibility of moving income out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116125511	Thank you, sir. Frank Aaen. There are no brief comments here either. Then we move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116125518	The Liberal Alliance can vote for the bill. We agree with what has already been said here by the rapporteur of the Left, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who has carefully examined the content of the draft law. We also agree with the reasons for voting in favour of it, and we will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116125537	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Nor can I see any rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party immediately. It looks at some of the movements around the Chamber as if if I were to speak slowly before we go further, there is a possibility that someone might appear; it would be exciting if there could be such a little criticism of this bill, if only for the sake of entertainment value. However, I think I have to say that there is no rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, so we are giving the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116125615	Yes, I have at least tried to approach the platform at a sufficiently slow pace, along the lines of the President's rather slow speech, in order to ensure that if it were to be the case that someone was standing in the back, it could have been reached, but that does not seem to be the case. So I would like to begin by expressing my thanks for the positive reception of the proposal by the parties present, and this is, of course, about the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Socialists. And I have the feeling that the Radical Left too supports the proposal, even though they have not been present. To Mr. Frank Aaen, I would like to say that I will, of course, make sure that this is clarified in relation to the issues that the Enhedslisten might wish to have clarified in relation to this bill. When it comes to exit taxation, in other words whether it should be in written form alone or whether there may be a need for some things of such a more technical nature that we are going through in committee, we will also be happy to come over and do so if necessary. Because, of course, I would also like to make sure that Mr. Frank Aaen feels comfortable with the present, so that one can vote in favour. After all, the overall aim of the proposal is precisely to ensure more appropriate tax rules for business, even when it comes to improving the rules on business taxation in a number of areas, and the main element of the legislative proposal is thus the harmonisation of exit tax for natural persons, particularly self-employed persons. In this context, a general retirement scheme is also introduced for economic operators in the interests of EU law, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. In addition, the proposal implements an amendment to the EU parent/subsidiary directive aimed at countering a combination of deductions on the payment side and tax exemption on the recipient. This is a really sensible change which we have helped to adopt and which affects certain forms of cross-border tax speculation. In addition, the proposal contains a number of other proposals which remove various inappropriateities in the existing tax rules for companies and traders. It is therefore a proposal which I can understand, as a whole, that almost all the parties in the Danish Parliament have now decided to support. We are, of course, waiting for the Enhedslisten to receive answers to their questions in this context, and I am of course happy to answer all the questions on the proposal, including the more technical ones, during the committee procedure, which I look forward to very much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116125859	I thank the tax minister. No one else has asked for the floor, and that means that the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we have come to item 4 on the agenda and now we have the small problem that we may need a minister unless there has been a ministerial raid, and that is not there, because the tax minister left. However, this is a little problematic, because it is difficult to get started on a point when the Minister is not there, and since it is the case that he has not arrived, no matter how slowly I speak between all the speakers, we have to postpone the sitting. Yeah, we'll have to when the minister's not here. It is, of course, regrettable and we will repeat the representations made by the Bureau to the Prime Minister that it is totally unacceptable and totally unacceptable that this should happen repeatedly. Because I understand that this is really frustrating for the rapporteurs who have come forward on time. Then there was some time, but it did not change anything about the Minister not being here, and then we cannot deal with the bill, which is why I am postponing the sitting for three minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116130316	Then the sitting is resumed after the Minister has arrived. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116130330	Thank you. Since the Left's family rapporteur is unable to be present, I have promised to take the matter on behalf of the Left. This bill translates into an agreement concluded between all parties of the Folketing to counter, minimise and limit the conflicts of parental interaction. Unfortunately, it is a well-known fact that for many cases of association, there are major conflicts between parents and that in some cases there is so much delay and even harassment that it harms the child's ability to grow up safely. Although it is important that there is no constant change in this area, we in the Left believe that it is important and proper to respond by the Danish Parliament when we find that there is legislation that does not sufficiently support as good solutions for the child as possible. The legislation cannot, of course, prevent conflicts between biological parents in all cases, unfortunately, but the legislation can set a framework which minimises the potential for conflict and reduces incentives to carry out harassment, because it must be the goal of all legislation in the area to ensure the best possible protection for children. It must not be easy to oppose association between the child and one or both parents, since association with both parents is important. The bill includes a series of measures aimed at improving the conditions for children's association with both parents. It is important that contact is maintained and that association is conducted in safe forms, where the child can be safe in future contact with both parents. The draft law includes, inter alia: the obligation to meet in the State administration in cases under the Parental Responsibility Act, so that meetings are not cancelled for no valid reason, thus delaying the proceedings. A deadline shall also be set for a temporary decision by the State Administration on contact-preservation in cases where there is no contact between the child and one parent. In addition, temporary decisions will be re-made to speed up the processes and ensure the child's certainty for the future. The bill also ensures that canceling association, which is not the result of the parent's association, automatically triggers compensation intercourse. Thus, a parent cannot prevent association by perpetuating obstacles. The draft law will also mean that fixed or agreed association may be terminated only when the parents have agreed or when the authorities have decided to do so. Finally, parents are offered advice at home before possible consummation by compulsion. For coercion is the last resort, which is why it is important to maintain a dialogue with parents on friendly solutions that do not harm the well-being of the child. The Left supports the proposal, and we very much welcome the fact that the Folketing can come together broadly on common agreements in an area such as this, because it is of such vital importance to parents, but certainly also to children. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116130635	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116130653	Our child and family rapporteur, Julie Skovsby, is unfortunately prevented from taking part in the discussion of the bill, so on her behalf I will read out our rapporteur's speech. Poor mood, insecurity and stomach ache. A break between mom and dad can be one of the worst and most intrusive things a child can face, but if Mom and Dad can't work together after they've broken up, it can get quite unbearable. The proposal we are dealing with today deals with cases where one parent deliberately tries to harass the other parent out of the child's life, without there being any reason for it, in powerlessness and in affection or simply for revenge. Fortunately, most parents can find out not to involve the child in their conflict, but in the unfortunate cases when the child is in the midst of the hurricane's eye, it is important that we, as a community, stand on the child's side and insist that the child is innocent. It has no part in the fact that Mom and Dad can't find out anymore, and therefore it's not fair that parents' disagreement should lead to the child's losing association with one of the parents. The aim of the proposal is that the child should continue to have both parents in his or her life, and the proposal should make it clear to parents that the responsibilities that go with having children still apply, even after breaking up. The proposal contains several parts, e.g. automatic liability, to ensure that the child's contact with both parents is not interrupted by one parent canceling association time and time again or not complying with his or her obligation to attend in the state administration, so that one of the parents no longer has the opportunity to use the cancellation of meetings as a way of prolonging the entire procedure. One of the things I would particularly like to highlight is the child experts' advice that the state administration will provide in future in situations where the next step is that the bailiff will go out to pick up the child. We must do everything we can to prevent a child from experiencing the violent experience of being met by this huge system of police, community and bailiffs. That's why we're giving the parents an emergency brake they can pull in if the case is going completely off the rails. Counselling is offered to parents in their homes, separately, and should be seen in the context of autumn's rate pool agreement, where we set almost 50 million. kr. of to conflict management even earlier in the process. Divorce is a family problem, and so it is best done in the family by talking to each other. With this proposal, we take the child's side in the unfortunate cases in which divorced parents use the child to fight with each other, and we make clear to the parents that they have a shared responsibility for their child, that it can continue to see both parents, even if the parents do not want to see each other in any way. That is why, of course, the Social Democrats can support the proposal and are very pleased with the broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116130946	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116130957	In many stories and adventures the endings are often... and they lived happily ever after. After having gone through so much to find love and get each other, perhaps despite opposition, the couple has reached the point where bumps on the road are forced and the light is glimpsed ahead, that a life together for good and adversity awaits, and that a family can be established with children and perhaps later grandchildren until death separates them. That's the story of the fictional fairy tale world. Whether you are a believer or not, for all ages there is a certain attraction and fascination with this depiction. Why are we caught by the story of adventure? There may be several reasons for this. I think it is something very individual, something that stems from the history, experience and upbringing of the individual, including the influence of the parents. Today, when we consider a proposal which has been subtitled "Conclusion of cooperation harassment, etc.," there is little fairy tale in my ears about it. Reality is catching up with us, including us as legislators. There are things that don't match the stories of the old adventures. There is a reality that is not light and where it all does not end well in the end rather the opposite. These are people who may not have gone through so much gruesomely to get each other, have found the great love and have completed this love for each other in establishing a family and having children. I guess it can't be much better. For those of us who have tried it, it is a daily joy, and being able to create new life and follow that generation after generation is something very special. Unfortunately, happiness and love are gained for some of the inevitable break-up, where one realizes that for one reason or another one no longer has to live together. Despite the ties that bind when you have children together, more and more couples come to the realization that a decision must be made that you no longer have to live together and share the joys and sorrows of everyday life, that life for good and adversity cannot be understood and that a break is a way out. It is unfortunate in the present, but fortunately we also have to note that for many people a break is the only right thing to get out of a relationship of dignity for both sides and to ensure a good life for children. I shall not be the one to decide whether it has become too easy for everyone today to break out of a relationship, whether there is paper on it or not. However, I must express my concern about some of the legislation that has been made here recently about marriage, namely that immediate divorce has become an option. When the Danish People's Party is included in this agreement, which was concluded in September last year, it is with the wish that we, the legislator, do what we can to ensure that the children involved in their parents' divorce suffer as little as possible that it is the child's best interests that must be at the top of the list, that it is the child's right to both parents and not the parents' right to the child, which must be the crucial element for a child's living conditions after a divorce. It is important that parents are aware that there is a shared responsibility for the child and that the child is in contact with both parents and that a conflicting relationship is not being worked up where the child is taken hostage in the parent's bride. In this area, as legislators, we can help to tighten up the requirements and conditions for the parties involved in a divorce. That is why we have also put forward broad political initiatives to help ensure the best interests of the child. These initiatives do not mean that we are in line with the parental responsibility law, but I think that is a step in the right direction. Several people are going to, and therefore we continue to work with the area, come up with new initiatives and follow the development and impact of agreements we have concluded, including the development of reducing the processing times, which are very dear to the Danish People's Party. I must also say, however, that, in addition to legislation, there is a major task for parents in particular, as these are feelings. On the political side, you cannot legislate out of emotional conflicts. One can help prevent divorce from turning into harassment and conflict. Furthermore, there is a great difference between how children experience the divorce of their parents. It may be because of the age of the child at the time, its personality, its network or something else entirely. There is no doubt that two divorces are not the same, which is why it can be difficult to incorporate all matters relating to divorce into legislative formulas. I would like to make it clear that the term for the child's good must be understood in such a way that it is always what is best for the given child to have all the facts clarified, and thus also that there may be circumstances in which it is not for the child's best to have contact and association with both parents. Unfortunately, we know that some children are subjected to abuse, physical or mental violence or abuse, and here there must be an opportunity to protect the child, and that may be to cut off a parent from associating with the child, because it is considered not to be for the child's good. Any suspicion of abuse or the like must always be taken seriously by the authorities and assessed very quickly. The Danish People's Party attaches immense importance to continuing to be essential and not underestimated in its zeal to guarantee the child's right to both parents. In conclusion, I must appeal to the parents who have loved each other and who together have created life, that there is a struggle to ensure that the common child is a safe and good upbringing, and that their own feelings and disappointments and perhaps defeats are put in the shadow, that the child can have a life of happiness and joy, and that the situation is such that the best thing in the child's perspective is that the family is together, cannot work for the second best to become a reality, namely that mother and father are happy individually and can communicate with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116131532	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116131543	It can be really tough when your parents get divorced, and for some children it becomes even worse because parents are upset because they disagree about who may see the child when and therefore end up in the state administration. Sometimes it goes so far that one parent deliberately tries to harass the other parent out of the child's life. You can do that, for example. do by dragging it all over, or if you, as the parent with whom the child lives, arrange to leave the holiday at the time when the child should have been with the other parent. It is not fair to the other parent, and it is not at all right to the child who wants to be with both parents. The purpose of this bill is therefore to make the children better by not losing contact with one parent for no reason. It's about people. With the bill, we want to make both parents active and loyal in dealing with their case. Of course, we cannot legislate out of the emotional conflicts, and I am therefore, as a radical, very pleased that we have set aside money to prevent conflict management. This bill is based upstairs by changing the rules so that one parent can't harass the other. A good example is automatic replacement interaction. Fortunately, the vast majority of parents can work together and be flexible about moving or canceling association, but there are examples of parents harassing each other in connection with association, so that the child loses contact with the other parent, and so we propose with this that in future you have automatic replacement intercourse. This does not alter the premise that all decisions should be made on the basis of what is best for the child. In cases where there are reasonable doubts as to whether the association is actually best for the child, it must, of course, be assessed as thoroughly as it has had to be so far. I would like the bill not only to change the rules, but also to send a very strong signal to parents as to how important it is that they cooperate and make an effort to make it work. We owe it to the kids. The Radical Left is therefore happy to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116131803	There is one question so far, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116131811	I think that last year's documentary has shown that there are some really big problems in this. We have also acknowledged this in the rapporteur's circle, and we have tried to deal with this bill, version 1.0, if you can call it that. But I also believe that we must be honest and say that this is not enough. Even if we launch this bill and it gets passed, the harassment doesn't stop here. Some of what you can see in the hearings and some of what you could see if you followed yesterday evening in the incredibly sad documentary, which I think caught everyone who followed, about the heart, is after all what the hearing answers say, and that is also what I said there is a need to think more about how we can change the whole system rather than just make some tiny changes. I just want to know whether the Radicals are actually involved in basically looking at how we can best secure this system so that we can overcome these tiny incremental changes and get all the balls thrown up in the air and said: what can we do as politicians to create a system for the benefit of those children who are currently missing either mother or father?
ParlaMint-DK_20150116131925	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116131926	I agree with the Conservatives and look forward to having this conversation throughout the circle and also with the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116131935	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116131936	Then I should like to ask whether the Radicals will support examining the prospects for a family court in Denmark. It's in England. There, a number of family forms have been created in which the system has been reformed and an independent family court has been set up. This would mean that the cases that go to the ordinary courts here in Denmark would then have to be brought into one unit, that is, a family court that would have to look at this. It is really just a question from me to the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will be willing to have a look at this when we are going to start the next process within the rapporteur's circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132010	I would very much like to take part in discussing this, which is why I think that, when we hopefully get to the goal of version 1.0, as Mrs Mai Mercado so well calls it, we should also have a talk about the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132024	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Mach of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132029	I am very pleased with the broad agreement on initiatives to deal with the harassment of cooperation in cases under the parental responsibility law and also with the amendment of the law which the SF supports and which we are ready to adopt together with the other parties. I am pleased that there is broad agreement on the basic content of the agreement. However, it is important for me and the SF to emphasise, as several other rapporteurs have also done, that work does not stop here, because it does not solve all the problems we see in the area of divorce. That is why we, together with the other parties, will follow the area closely and work further, in particular to ensure the children's perspective and their rights. Although we all know it well in here, it cannot be emphasized often enough: the Parental Responsibility Act is about the child's right to both his parents and not the child's perspective is very important to us in the SF. This is a perspective that we should spread as much as possible. That is why we should also pay particular attention to the part of the draft law on compensation. After all, we hear from a part of the children's organizations that it also gives itself a little bit that compensation can run the risk of conflicting with the children's interests, for example. by falling on planned social activities. And, of course, we must not underestimate the importance of this; we must keep a close eye on it, for it is no good that the good intentions behind the replacement are contrary to the interests of the child. Although the proposal here hopefully reduces the number of cases where parents are harassing each other, I do not think we are in the end. Unfortunately, I think we will never achieve the goal if the aim is to eliminate harassment and conflict completely. Divorce is about feelings, broken love and broken relationships, and it cannot and must not govern completely. Christiansborg cannot solve family tragedies or guarantee that divorces will in future take place without friction, conflict, harassment and great sorrow, but we must help as best we can. And here, in the SF, we believe that we need to work even more on prevention. The best thing is, of course, to solve the problems before they grow too large that they risk having massive negative consequences for the children involved. That is why I am also pleased that with the 2015 rate pool we set aside almost 50 million. kr. to an experimental project on conflict management as prevention in matters of parental responsibility. I have high expectations of the project and hope that it will provide a basis for the dissemination of good experience in preventive conflict management. It is for me to see the way forward in large parts of the social area. In conclusion, I would like to repeat that I am pleased that we agree in the Folketing to correct the shortcomings, shortcomings and non-interms of the parental responsibility law, but it also emphasises, as several of my colleagues have said, that it is complex and that it is sensitive issues we are dealing with and therefore work must not stop here. So we also look forward in the SF to join the Minister in addressing the second round of work on the divorce area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a single questioner so far. Mrs. Mai Mercado, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132324	Thank you for a very good speech. I agree very much, and I think we are also very much on the same wavelength on this issue. You can see from the consultation answers that a lot of organisations say that you have to fundamentally rethink the system and that you can't just keep making these patch solutions. I would therefore just like to ask, as I also asked the Radicals, whether the rapporteur would be prepared to turn every stone and also throw the balls up in the air and see if we could go more radically and establish a new system and examine whether it could be an opportunity to establish a family court here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132401	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132403	I very much agree with Mrs Mai Mercado, and if Mrs Mai Mercado, with the expression of radical action, does not mean it in party political sense, then we in the SF are ready for that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132412	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132421	I have to say on behalf of Mrs Pernille Skipper, who is unable to be here, that Enhedslisten supports this bill. We have a few comments to make. Of course, we agree with what is involved in tackling so-called cooperation harassment in matters under the Parental Responsibility Act. Parents who are in conflict with divorce can today sabotage in many different ways association agreements made about shared children. One can fail to reach agreements in the State Administration, cancel association and the like, and this kind of conflict and harassment is first and foremost unhappy for the children affected and affected by the conflict between parents. That is why we think it is a good thing that all the parties in the Folketing have agreed to do something in this area. That's what we need. With the amendment of the law, we reach in line with parts of the legislation that we have said had to be implemented in order to counteract the harassment of cooperation. The Enhedslisten is pleased that there will be a meeting obligation to the State Administration and that in other areas the focus is on contact-preservation. We are also pleased with the part of the legislation that allows both parents to be advised in their homes before enforcement of association. Other improvements are also needed in the area of counselling. We would like all families who address the State Administration with a request for a decision on parental responsibility or association to be subject to mandatory advice. The fine results of trials of counselling to divorce families should be taken into account and disseminated to apply in all cases also cases where there is no immediate prospect of the major conflicts. It is very well known that divorce conflicts can be disgusting for parents and, above all, children, who are left with extreme trauma because of their parents' inability to tackle the problem and ensure proper cooperation. So we believe that as much prevention as possible is needed, and we also believe that there is a need to increase prevention efforts and that more money is still needed for this area, for example for mandatory conflict resolution and advice, which, in our view, should also have been part of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132717	Thank you, sir. Frank Aaen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116132728	Our usual rapporteur in this area, Mrs Merete Riisager, cannot be here today, but she has written a speech which I will read out. Bill No. L 103 is based on the best of all intentions, namely to promote both parents' involvement in the child's contact with both parents. It is a good and real intention, all the time children should always have the opportunity to have contact with two well-functioning and loving parents. This should be the way childhood should be for all children, whether parents are divorced or not. That is just not the reality, and when we see an explosion in the number of cases in the State Administration and in the media in these years, it is no coincidence. The many unfortunate cases are primarily rooted in the fact that we are more often divorced than we used to. There is no need to idyllicize marriages 50 and 100 years ago, when the opportunities for divorce were different. However, we must also note that the fact that many parents are divorcing today has some costs for children in particular. Another important factor in relation to the increased number of cases where parents do not agree on the distribution of association with children is the welcome development that fathers today want to be parents, as much as mothers do. In the past, when both parents and societies had some kind of consensus that children were primarily the mother's responsibility, the solutions were also more equal. It's not like that today. The vast majority of children grow up with present fathers who take part in their childhood. This relationship, of course, both children and fathers want to continue if parents divorce. Much suggests that the new role of fathers, although not so new even, cannot be contained in the existing system. An alarmingly large proportion of the fathers who get a case dealt with in the State Administration state that they do not believe they have received fair treatment. The decisions also indicate that there is still an imbalance between mother and father when they enter this system. Bill No. L 103 contains regulations to ensure that a parent cannot be prevented from seeing his or her child for a longer period of time due to processing time or because the parent of residence is absent from meetings. We in the Liberal Alliance are well aware that the legislative proposal does not solve the many and major problems in the field of association, and we do not imagine anything, but we support the proposal because it is a step in the right direction. But we are also ready to discuss the area further, recognizing that the problems are far from being solved. First of all, it is important and necessary to say that a system can never resolve all conflicts between spouses or former spouses who hate each other. So people who have married out of love and have had children together, and who then end up fighting each other, also have a personal responsibility for how they and especially their children are doing. The vast majority of parents are concerned with protecting their children, even when they are in the middle of a divorce. The majority of parents who divorce work together and solve everyday problems in a memorable way, even if this may mean that they have to put themselves in the background or swallow their pride. Some parents are unable to do so. They become engrossed in hatred of each other and forget the consideration for their children. Whatever solutions we find, we must remember that responsibility for children is the responsibility of parents, even when they are divorced. But the system can be improved. In the Liberal Alliance, we propose, like the Children's Terms, that it be thought all over again. The citizen and the child must be at the centre; greater transparency must be provided so that citizens know exactly what is going to happen and what their possibilities are; cases must be immediately divided into the light, difficult and conflicting cases so that they can be dealt with properly; disputes must be given special attention and assigned special resources; all case workers must have completed mandatory training courses; and all parents who contact the State Administration must have access to a voluntary digital information course in what their possibilities are and what costs they may have for their children if they do not contribute to solving the problems. The financial conditions for Mom and Dad in connection with divorce must be reviewed with the aim of reviewing them. The current rules are rooted in a time when the economic differences between mother and father were far greater than they are today. Finally, the State Administration will have to carry out a review in which more demands are made on both managers and case managers. We cannot live with a system that deals with such important matters and where a large proportion of citizens feel badly treated. In other words, changes are needed in this area, ranging from the recognition that each parent has a responsibility, to both economic and organisational changes. We in the Liberal Alliance are ready to participate in both the value-based discussion and the practical negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116133224	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116133233	800 children live without seeing either father or mother because the authorities have decided to stop contact. There may be many reasons for this, but there are many children, and it is a sad situation that they find themselves in, which one can only get really bad in the heart over. And it's a tough reality for everyone when Mom and Dad fight in the state administration. Fortunately, with the documentaries that have been shown over the last year, there has been a greater focus on this area, which also means that we, as politicians, receive many comments and comments. Some of the comments and remarks I have received are that now Mom and Dad must also stop the war, that it must stop for the sake of children. But I just don't think it's that simple, because what parents don't want the best of their children? I believe basically that parents want their children well, but I also believe that their perspective on what is good for children can be changed through an ugly divorce. In addition, it is also difficult to pass judgment because it is a difficult problem. Is this a real concern for the child, who keeps one parent from giving it up, could it be psychological violence, could it be physical violence, even abuse, or is it mere harassment from a vain, vindictive parent? These are very diverse examples that we are meeting, and so are the consultation responses. And you just have to say that the Association Dad has a completely different focus than, for example, the National Association of Women's Crisis Centres has and indeed for good reason. So the question is, how do we contain and stop the harassment? Prevention and divorce courses early are part of the solution, but what about the parents who are already in deep conflict with each other? As politicians, we have a responsibility both to prevent conflicts and to dampen them once they are in progress. This bill is a good step on the way, but there are also many of the consultation answers that say that it is not enough, and I actually find that responsibility that the social rapporteurs want to take on. Today we are dealing with the first harassment package; the Minister for Social Affairs has announced that there will be one more, and that is very positive. In fact, I also see a great deal of consensus among the rapporteurs about wanting to do something in this area, that is to say that we want to change the system. I would just like to say that I think we need to turn every stone around and rethink the system, because right now, with the decisions and the legislative proposal before us, it seems that a system that has some built-in and obvious shortcomings is still being patched up. The use of children's conversations and their quality have been questioned both by the bailiff and the State Administration and the various conclusions they can throw away. And a one - stringed system may be needed to avoid being a throwing ball, both as a parent and as a child. An unacceptablely long waiting period is being pointed out. It is pointed out that it can be difficult to approach and be taken seriously in the State Administration and that it pays to oppose one parent or another. We Conservatives have proposed looking more generally at this area and, following a British example, we have proposed the setting up of a family court. I must also acknowledge that it is not, of course, because so far there has been a great desire to examine this perspective. That is why I could not help asking SF and Radicals about this, and I hope that what has been said today will also stand up to believers when we come to the negotiations, precisely that we want to examine that possibility. The proposal for a family court to ensure that competences are brought together, so that the Court's staff will be both experienced and dressed to deal with those matters quickly and effectively, is also about full information, that is to say, that the court has the opportunity to obtain all the information, that it should not run a mess between the court and the state administration, and, above all, to reduce waiting times and to strengthen legal certainty for everyone. As I have heard, the proposal is supported by the Dad Association, and although yesterday's documentary, which is called "With the children as weapons," was primarily about mothers who were cut off from seeing their children, we know that this also applies to fathers, and that unfortunately there is also a tendency for there to be a pre-distribution. I therefore hope that we will see a Parliament that takes responsibility and will actively work to help the many children who are currently trapped in the harassment between mother and father.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116133654	Thank you to the rapporteur. Perhaps, before it becomes the Minister's turn, I should like to make it clear, as there are now four rapporteurs who have replaced their specialist rapporteurs and, for some, have also read out a speech on behalf of this rapporteur, that this does not, of course, prevent other politicians from challenging the rapporteur on the platform. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Conditions, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116133724	Thank you for that, President. Clarification is always good. I would also, of course, like to thank you for the discussion that has taken place today, and indeed for all the good rapporteur speeches. I would particularly like to congratulate Mrs Karin Nødgaard on her speech. She kept the habit of believing a really, really fine speech, and I think that has been held all around. It shows somewhere that this is something that concerns us all. In any case, we have discussed it so much. This is the case both with the parental responsibility law and also with the cases dealt with by the State Administration. They always give rise to a debate, and there is nothing surprising about that. We have also been able to see this in the television broadcasts, most recently yesterday, which Mrs Mai Mercado also mentioned, because it is precisely about our children. That is also why, in the spring and summer of last year, we had it as our starting point when we discussed the whole situation of the problem of cooperation, when the debate actually ran. And we agreed very quickly that we really wanted to look at that. We would like to look at what could be done so that children do not lose contact with one parent for no reason, as we were told at a meeting that we were able to actually do. It is actually worth harassing a parent out of the child's life, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. That is, in fact, what is happening today. The draft law will give effect to the agreement that we all saw subsequently in September, when we were precisely screwing up some things and coming up with some initiatives precisely to deal with these unfortunate cases. I am really, really glad that we could also so quickly agree that it is completely unacceptable if one parent tries to harass the other parent out of the child's life, without, as I said before, that there is a reason for it. With this proposal, we are dealing with very, very simple and, on the other hand, with effective measures the very special situations in which parents deliberately fail to cooperate and keep the child away from the other parent. You can say in goose eyes that somewhere this has been the easy part of it. I think everyone's been talking about it too, because of course there's also work that needs to be looked at with regard to this whole area. Of course, the situations that we are facing now take account of the cooperation and of the children's interests. Of course, the proposed changes here also have the same overall focus as the Parental Responsibility Act, which has always been our aim and must remain our aim: the best of the child and the child's perspective. All decisions must therefore continue to be made on the basis of the child's best interests and the child's perspective. We must ensure that this is always clarified in each case. And in cases where it is not good for the child with contact, things as before must be remembered, and I also think that is what the SF was talking about. As we have agreed, we must follow the development and impact of these initiatives in connection with the annual status meetings on developments in the area of parental responsibility law, and I am, of course, very pleased, as I said, that there is such support for the bill, which hopefully means that the bill can be adopted and come into force as early as 1 October 2015. In those words, of course, I would like to thank you once again for the debate and, of course, I look forward to the continued examination of the draft law in committee and make my habit of questions and comments available here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134130	There is a question from Mrs Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134135	In spite of the President's request, it is not, of course, because today's debate is very much on the loose. However, I would like to ask a question, because this is an extremely important area, and I think that many people are caught up in the stories, the stories that we all, as social rapporteurs and as some people working on social policy, are encountering in these harassment cases. And these are very incremental changes, i.e. tiny, gradual adjustments to an already existing system, which we are currently legalising. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs if he could imagine that at the meetings we will have in the next round we could think more of a way out of the box and wonder if we could structure the system differently for the benefit of these children and also for the benefit of the parents who are still being kept out of the lives of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134232	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134234	Now, hand on heart, I can't quite remember if Mrs. Mai Mercado was at the very first meeting we held, yes, she was, okay. Then, of course, the rapporteur will also remember that a piece of paper was placed on the table more or less blank, and that I also called for thought to be given out of the box, as Mrs Mai Mercado also calls for, and all the things that we have talked about in the last 6-7 months about the exact law of parental responsibility and harassment, and whatever else there may be. We had some different elements up, and of course we have worked on them. That process goes on, of course, because, as I have said over the last few days, I do not have anything ideological or sacred for me in which direction we should go. What is important to me is that we do everything we can to avoid these unfortunate cases which are so damaging to the children. So I shall endeavour to do so. But I would just like to quote in the end, Mrs Karin Nødgaard, who said that it is not possible to legislate completely out of emotions. Ole Birk Olesen said so and I fully agree with that, but we can at least try to do it as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134357	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134359	It should not be understood as a criticism, and I really think the process has been good too, meaning that first we took the light stones on the road and moved them with the promise that now comes the slightly larger discussions. And I very much hope so, because I also saw some concrete kicks coming along the way in the negotiations, as such a little was shot to the corner, and I just hope that they are not shot so far to the corner that they go into some jam jar and never come up again. This is an area in which we are very, very concerned about solving the problems and also finding new solutions, and that is why it has been very important to me that, when we are going into a new debate, we do not risk ending up with just a very tight negotiating space, but that we are actually also trying to look at how other countries have organised it here and what it is that makes us basically have those problems embedded in the systems. So it is simply a major structural discussion that we are going into.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134455	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134457	Well, I didn't take it as a criticism either. It was simply a service message if some people were watching or sitting in the gallery, so that we did not speak so in agreement with each other. After all, we are in complete agreement that something must be done and that we must throw all the balls up in the air. What I just really wanted was for us to have the ideas that had to come to the bottom; that we are doing exactly that, so we have a solid knowledge base to stand on, so that we can again make some decisions so that we are not in these situations where we must constantly try to patch the hole, and so that we can get something done properly once and for all. So I will seek that knowledge, and I actually hear that everyone else will.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134542	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134544	Thank you. I also think that, despite the fact that we are not many social rapporteurs present, it is nevertheless a fine debate and that it is good that we have it. I am also very pleased that we have made this agreement, and I look forward to the meeting that we will have next week, which has been planned for a long time in relation to this area. I'd just like to hear about something from the minister. After all, the legislation we are making now is not retroactive legislation. There's no such custom for us to do that. What often fills us very much is that when these broadcasts come, when we are confronted with some terrible tragic cases, and when we think, as I said in my speech, that we cannot understand that they do not think about what is for the best of the child and so on. etc. I would like to hear something from the Minister. Can the Minister tell us what opportunities such parents have, which are actually in a mess now? Are there any things that can be done? Is this something you have to look at separately, or what do you actually do in this whole area? For that is also one of the things that we, as rapporteurs, are faced with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134645	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134646	It is absolutely true that we are confronted with this. So do I. And the rapporteur himself gives the question and also the answer, namely that it is quite impossible to legislate retroactively. It can be done, but there is just another element when it comes to these matters, namely that some decisions have been made, and that also means that some children and some adults have started to live a life, and that is something you risk, so you have to relate to that in some way. I think that the rapporteur is almost assuming that I am referring to the two cases which were last night when it was about the children's conversations, both of which were really unhappy. I do not know what the situation is, and it is sometimes the case that, when matters are brought to light in the media, we do not get the whole matter clarified. We get some elements of it. So it is quite difficult for me to answer that, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134744	Thank you, Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134746	But I am grateful for that too. That is the kind of thing we must bring into the discussion, that is, what we do, etc. At least in the future we will have to ensure that. The second thing I really want to hear a little bit about is what the Minister is saying about examining the ideas to the bottom. It is clear that we are elected and something like that, but we are not specialists. I would like to know whether the Minister has any plans to perhaps involve some more of those who may be specialists in this area, so that we can have some joint meetings, and so that it is not just the Minister who has his own meetings, and we, as committees, do some consultations and so on. Because that's what we've done. I would like to make it clear that I believe it should be those who can look at it in such a very nuanced way, so that it does not become the very emotional thing. Because I know that there may well be parents who want to enter and get involved in a debate, but it can get a little emotional. But it is for us not to be told afterwards that we have only made such a patch solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134839	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116134840	I fully agree, yes, completely, especially with the emotions. I think there's really a lot of emotion in this. We're also seduced by those feelings. I think somewhere and I would really like to acknowledge that, despite the fact that we have been seduced, everything else just in the negotiations we have had, we have kept an overview and have also had the recognition that everyone has heard one thing and the other, but that there is also the other side. I'd like to sign for that. What I am in any case suggesting is that the knowledge that we now need must of course be provided in the best possible way. I haven't decided that it has to be certain. I will look forward to having our debates, and I will of course reach out, as usual, to all the rapporteurs, and have good ideas as to whether it should be one or the other. I think we've proven that exactly with this, we have a common approach. I also think we have proved that we could stand together and have a good result both in terms of divorce package 1, as it is baptized, in terms of divorce package 2, as it is also baptized in the pool of rates and then in terms of what we are about to do. I look forward to that very much. So I'm just gonna sign.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116135011	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions and no more have asked to speak. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150116135033	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 20 January 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
