ParlaMint-DK_20150703110004	The meeting is open. I have received notification from the Prime Minister of the appointment of the new government and of the division of tasks between ministers. The communication is presented in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). The Committee on the Verification of Credentials has delivered: Report and recommendation on the parliamentary elections of 18 June 2015. B1). The report and the recommendation will also appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. On the other hand, it is decided by Royal Resolution of 28 June 2015 that the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, Minister of Economic Affairs and Interior Morten Østergaard Stigel, Minister of Finance Bjarne Fog Corydon, Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Lidegaard, Minister of Justice Mette Frederiksen, Minister of Defence Nicolai Halby Wammen, Minister of Education and Research Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Church Marianne Bruus Jelved, Minister of Employment Henrik Dam Kristensen, Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Development and Minister of Nordic Cooperation Carsten Mogens Hansen, Minister of Education Christine Edda Antorini, Minister of Health and Prevention Nick Hækkerrup, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries Danni Jørgensen, Minister of Agriculture and Social Affairs, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture and Development, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture and Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of The Minister for Justice and Home Affairs of the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs of the Ministry of the Environment, Agriculture and Fisheries of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries of the Ministry of the Environment and Food, and the following, under the Ministry of the Environment, are transferred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Growth: matters relating to the framework for the physical development of an area, including the law on summer houses and camping, etc., the law on colonial gardens and the law on planning (the Ministry of the Interior), with the exception of matters relating to the assessment of the effects on the environment (VVVVM obligation), that the designation of the Ministry of Health and Home Affairs be changed to the Ministry of Education and Home Affairs of the Ministry of the Ministry of Education, Education and Gender Equality, that the former Ministry of Economics and Home Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, and that the latter are transferred to the Ministry of Justice of the Ministry of Justice and Justice of Justice of the Ministry of Justice. 883 of 29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems, bilateral agreements on social security, etc. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior is transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Employment that the responsibility for cases relating to the deposit of radioactive waste, with the exception of supervisory tasks relating to the deposit of radioactive waste, is transferred from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly to the Ministry of Education and Research; that the responsibility for cases relating to the permanent non-labour market is transferred from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of the Interior; that the responsibility for matters relating to day-care and private care for children is transferred until school start-up from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Children, Education and Equal Opportunities; that the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior is transferred from the Ministry of Employment to the Ministry of Employment and Growth; that the responsibility for matters relating to religions outside the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior is transferred from the Ministry of Social and Interior to the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Health and Social Security. Paragraph 78a (1) Section 33 (3) and Section 80 of the Working Environment Act. § 33 (1) to (4) No. 6, no. Section 36 (2) Article 70 (2) and Article 70 (2) and Article 70 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European Social Fund and the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , the European SocialFund , and the European SocialFund , and the European SocialFund , and the European Social Fund for Rural SocialFund , and the European SocialFund , 4 of the Emergency ResponseAct , §3 ,no .1 ,6 ,7 ,11 , 12 and13 , §3a ,para . 4 and 7para . Article 1(2 ) of the Law on fireworks and other pyrotechnicarticles .6 , in the Law on Arms andExplosives , and in section23 , in the Act on Arms andExplosives . The Ministry ofEmployment , the Ministry ofDefence , the Ministry of Business and Growth and the Ministry of Justice shall transfer to the Ministry of the Environment and Food the responsibility for cases concerning the Official Journal and the Consultation Portal from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Justice 1 and 3 of the Law on police activities to lay down rules on the control ofmajor- accident hazards of dangeroussubstances , including for the implementation of Directive2012/18/ EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control ofmajor- accident hazards involving dangerous substances and amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive96/82/EC. I would ask the President to inform Parliament accordingly. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20150703110055	The debate is open. Mr President, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials. Peter Juel Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703110115	Thank you, President. As chairman of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I can give the following information on the work of the committee: the work has usually concerned three questions: firstly, the question of the validity of the electoral procedure, including the preparation of the elections, the vote, the counting of the ballot papers themselves, their evaluation and the voting books, etc., including a number of complaints about the elections. Secondly, the work has concerned the issue of approval of the statements and calculations made by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. Thirdly, it has dealt with the question of the approval of candidates who have obtained elections. On the validity of the electoral procedure, I can say that, in addition to the statement by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, we have examined 32 electoral complaints and expressed our views on each complaint. There are also a number of different issues relating to the election procedure which have caused difficulties in several places. Among other things, there are: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. We have spoken critically about the errors and called for greater attention to be paid to the problems of the electoral authorities, among others. greater focus on proofreading. We can also see that there have been some complaints about opening hours, the counselling of citizens, etc. in connection with the submission of correspondence votes. I can refer to the review in the report and the recommendation. On matters relating to the approval of the statements and calculations of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior, the Committee examined their approval. The overall statements and calculations have not given rise to any comments by the Committee. As regards questions of approval of the elected representatives, the committee is not aware of any circumstances which might lead to some of the elected representatives being unelected. The Committee then has the following recommendations: As regards the elections in Denmark, the Committee agrees that the Danish Parliament will approve the election of the members of the Danish Parliament on 18 June 2015 by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs on 30 June 2015 of the calculations and statements relating to this election and the 175 candidates selected on the separate electoral register as from 18 June 2015. With regard to the elections in Greenland, a unanimous committee recommends that the Folketing, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 6, approves this election on the basis of the provisional statement by the Kingdom Ombudsman in Greenland on the parliamentary elections in Greenland on 18 June 2015 and approves the 2 candidates who elected from 18 June 2015. As regards the election in the Faroe Islands, a unanimous committee recommends that the Danish Parliament approve the election of the two members of the Danish Parliament on 18 June 2015, the statement and calculations made by the election board on this election and the two candidates who elected from 18 June 2015. On behalf of the committee, I should like to recommend to the House the committee's recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703110445	Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't. There are, as we have heard, three recommendations, all of which have been made by a unanimous committee and which are aimed at proposing the approval of the elections. It is therefore my intention, as has been done in previous elections, to allow the vote on the three recommendations to take place in one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703110517	The vote will therefore be taken on the committee's recommendation No. 1-3 on the elections in Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, respectively, and a vote can be taken. It does not look as if all votes are recorded, so I propose that we take the vote on. Because after a bad rehearsal, there's often a good premiere, and we're taking it now. A vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 117 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and IA) voted against, 0 abstentions. The Committee's position has therefore been unanimously adopted. After that, the seats of the newly elected Parliament have been approved. Before we proceed to the next item on the agenda, I shall suspend the sitting so that those Members who have not previously been members of the Folketing can sign it in section 32 of the Constitution. 7, mentioned the assurance that they will keep the Constitution. This signature is given this time as something new in the Chamber immediately before the Assembly and immediately after the postponement of the sitting. I shall therefore suspend the sitting. It will resume today at 1 p.m. 12.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120001	After all the new Members have now signed the Charter of Fundamental Rights, we are ready for the next item on the agenda, which is the election of the President. For the post of President, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and Siumut have stopped Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. The unitary list has requested a vote in connection with the elections, pursuant to Rule 36 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120124	In accordance with practice, this vote will be able to vote in favour, against and neither for or against the recommendation referred to. A vote can be taken. The vote is over. 87 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 16 (EL, ALT and IA), abstained 8 (RV and SF). The Danish Parliament has thus elected Denmark's first female Speaker of Parliament. I would ask the new President to stand in the chair, since we do not intend to hear any speech on this occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120243	As regards the election of Vice-Presidents, Section 3 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing provides for the election of Vice-Presidents. 1: Each of the four largest parliamentary groups represented in the Things, in addition to the parliamentary group to which the Chairman may belong, shall appoint in order of size among its members, the first, the second, the third and the fourth Vice-Presidents respectively. The Social Democratic Party has appointed Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt as its first Vice-President. For the second Vice-President, the Left has appointed Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. For the third Vice-President, the Enhedslisten has appointed Mrs Stine Brix. For the fourth Vice-President, the Liberal Alliance has appointed Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120339	In accordance with the constitution of the electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members have been elected: Bent Bøgsted (DF), Mr. Erling Bonnesen (V), Mr. Benny Engelbrecht (S) and Mrs Karen J. Klint (S). Things are set here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120404	Then I would like to thank the Members of the House for the election of the President of Parliament. I shall endeavour to be the President of the whole House and, together with the other Bureau, to be representatives of all of us, regardless of which party you come from. I look forward to the upcoming work with great joy and anticipation. That after 31 years in the Folketing I now have a different role than before, I know. And I consider the office of President of the Folketing to be a great honour... a task to which I am humble. I will do what I can to be a good and fair President of all parties. Every President will make his own mark on the office of President. I will do the same in my way, but with deep respect for the office. The task of the President and the Bureau is also to ensure good working conditions for the many skilled employees in this House and for the cooperation between politicians and employees in a good way for the benefit of the people's regime. There is so much history, there are so many traditions and values that I, together with good colleagues, will safeguard for the benefit of the Danish people. Thank you for your choice. And then we get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120540	For these elections the following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 90 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party; a group of 89 members: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut, Tjóðveldi and Javnaðarflokkurin. There is a recommendation from the groups on these elections. The names of the elected can be found on the Danish Parliament's website and www.folktingstidende.dk. At the same time, the groups have put forward proposals for the election of the President and Vice-President. Only one has been proposed for each of these posts, and the names are listed at www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). The election was: 1 Bent Bøgsted (DF) 2 Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) 3 Peter Skaarup (DF) 4 Martin Henriksen (DF) 5 Peter Juel Jensen (V) 6 Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) 7 Anni Matthiesen (V) 8 Leif Mikkelsen (LA) 9 Brian Mikkelsen (KF) 10 Benny Engelbrecht (S) 11 Bjarne Laustsen (S) 12 Christine Antorini (S) 13 Karen J. Klint (S) 14 Pernille Skipper (EL) 15 Josephine Fock (ALT) 16 Martin Lidegaard (RV) 17 Jonas Dahl (SF) Chairman: Peter Juel Jensen (V) Vice-President: Karen J. Klint (S) Election of 16 members to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The election was: 1 Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) 2 Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt (S) 3 Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) 4 Stine Brix (EL) 5 Mette Bock (LA) 6 Peter Skaarup (DF) 7 Søren Espersen (DF) 8 Martin Henriksen (DF) 9 Søren Gade (V) 10 Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) 11 Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (V) 12 Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) 13 Søren Pape Poulsen (KF) 14 Benny Engelbrecht (S) 15 Christine Antorini (S) 16 Henrik Sass Larsen (S) 17 Karen J. Klint (S) 18 Søren Søndergaard (EL) 19 Josephine Fock (ALT) 20 Morten Østergaard (RV) 21 Jonas Dahl (SF) 1-5) together with 16 elected members). President: Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) Vice-President: Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt (S)]
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120632	Member of the Folketing Mogens Lykketoft applied for leave from 4 July 2015, according to section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. Article 41 (3) (c) of the Rules of Procedure also provides that Members of the Folketing Høgni Hoydal have applied for leave from 28 July 2015. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120716	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party of Copenhagen, Jeppe Bruus, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 4 July 2015 on the occasion of Mogens Lykketoft's leave and that the First Deputy of Tjóðveldi in the Faroe Islands, Magni Arge, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 28 July 2015 on the occasion of Høgni Hoydal's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120759	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The Committee's recommendation has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150703120842	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held today at 2 p.m. 13.00. I'm gonna have to ask for the floor again. There was an annex that had put in with our otherwise fantastic superb [folk secretary] Claus Dethlefsen, who otherwise never ever makes mistakes, so I have to read: Today there are the following reviews: The Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Karen Ellemann): Bill no. L 1 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 2 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on Active Social Policy, the Act on Active Employment, the Integration Act and various other laws. Minister for Employment (Jørn Neergaard Larsen): Bill no. L 3 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Pensions. Bill No. L 4 (Proposal for a law on the financing by municipalities of certain public benefits paid by municipalities, the Danish Disbursement Fund and the unemployment funds). Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 5 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations. Bill No. L 6 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on collection and corporation tax. Bill No. L 7 (Proposal for a law amending the law on family allowances and the advance payment of child allowances and the law on a child and young person's allowance). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 2 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the withdrawal of the licence for the exploration and extraction of shale gas in North Jutland and the authorization to carry out replacement negotiations with the licensees), motion for a resolution No. Β 3 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the re-examination of the licence for the extraction of shale gas in North Jutland when the test drilling is completed) and motion for a resolution No. B 4 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new procedure for examining applications for the exploration and extraction of fossil fuels on land or near coasts). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
