ParlaMint-DK_20150526130000	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing Louise Schack Elholm (V) and Charlotte Dyremose (KF) have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a parliamentary decision on a more transparent cooperative housing market. B 112) Does anyone wish to accept this resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130034	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 57 by Steen Gade (SF), Lars Christian Lilleholt (V), Jens Joel (S), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Per Clausen (EL) and Mike Legarth (KF), and voting is now possible. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 91 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT) voted against 5 (LA), abstaining 13 (DF). The proposal is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 58 by Villum Christensen (LA) and Mikkel Dencker (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130142	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130152	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 112 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130219	No amendments have been tabled, including those relating to the title. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130301	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 106 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and ALT), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130333	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130402	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 106 (V, S, DF, RV, EL, SF, KF and ALT) voted against, 0 abstentions 5 (LA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130431	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130455	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 107 (V, S, DF, RV, EL, SF, KF and ALT), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130529	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130544	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 106 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL and KF), against 6 (LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130620	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130635	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 71 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL and ALT) voted against 42 (V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130705	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130724	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The proposal has been adopted unanimously by 113 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130754	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130814	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 4 (LA), against 109 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and 1 (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130843	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130902	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130924	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526130945	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131004	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131016	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131035	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. So the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131113	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131139	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131150	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that this bill should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131208	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131222	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of SF and EL), on Amendment No 1. Amendment No 2 was accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Amendment No 3 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of SF and EL). Amendment No 4 was accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of SF and EL) and on Amendment No 5. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 7, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of SF and EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131308	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131337	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131356	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131412	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (V), elected by a majority (the other committee), or on the amendments No. 1 by a minority (V), adopted by a majority (the other committee), or on amendments No. 1 by a majority (the other committee). 2-12, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131438	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131502	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131520	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131543	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 18 (1S), EL, SF and ALT voted against 94 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 3 and 4, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL) now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 17 (EL, SF and ALT), against 94 (V, S, DF, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131824	May I ask that the talks be suspended or suspended so that we can proceed with the agenda? I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 28 May 2015. First of all, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the questioners. Nikolaj Villumsen, to explain the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526131917	Thank you. The parties in the defence society have decided that Denmark should have new fighter planes. It is a decision that can have major consequences for the future of Denmark's foreign policy, and it is a decision that can cost up to 30 billion. kr. alone in procurement, and which therefore has major consequences for Denmark's economy in the future. There should be a thorough public debate on such an important political decision. Unfortunately, I do not think there has been so far. That is why we have called today's debate from the Enhedslisten to discuss what foreign policy Denmark should conduct in the future, and to hear from the defence reconciliation parties what the arguments are for buying new fighter planes. The arguments we have heard so far are that Denmark, together with the United States and other NATO allies, should be able to participate in international military operations. Yes, the Conservatives have said on several occasions that it is about being able to defend themselves against Russia. The Secretary of Defense has talked about the fact that the purchase of fighter aircraft is about providing Danish jobs. Today I would like to hear from the Secretary of Defense and the other parties in the Danish Parliament what you think is the most important argument for the purchase of new fighter planes and what a military and international role it is that Denmark can be expected to play in the world over the next 20 years. In relation to international operations, it will be important to know what kind of operations you expect Denmark to be involved in. Are we going to go into more wars with the United States and NATO, and do we believe that it will contribute to peace and international stability, or are we even supposed to include fighters in UN peacekeeping missions? And do we really consider that we are facing a Russian invasion, which our Foreign Minister has otherwise rejected? And how can these fighter planes even be used and part of a territorial defence of Denmark if the Russians were to approach? After all, the reality is that the aircraft will be delivered by 2020 at the earliest and that the favourite aircraft you are talking about, Joint Strike Fighter, is not really fully developed yet. Recently there has been an alarming report from the U.S. Department of Defense showing that there are major problems with the development of Joint Strike Fighter, so what consequences should this have for Denmark? When the Secretary of Defense stepped in, he announced that the purchase of fighter aircraft would only take place if it created Danish jobs. Since then, the EU has banned counter-buying and has therefore put a stick in the wheel for the hope of Danish jobs, so I look forward to hearing whether it is really still the case that the defence minister's main demands for the purchase of fighter aircraft are that jobs should be created in Denmark or whether we are ready to spend 30 billion. kr., without creating a single workplace at home. Against this background, I would like to read out the call for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526132233	We shall do so during the debate if it is the proposal for adoption. It is not the proposal for adoption, it is just the call). Well, now the speaking time is spent. Okay. Thank you. I just thought it was important). I think we have read our query text. Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it's the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526132256	Thank you for that, President. The world around us is changing, and Denmark itself will not be able to define the security challenges and threats that could arise. In a changing world, it is therefore crucial for Denmark's security that the defence is in possession of effective and flexible tools that can help to take care of our efforts both at home and abroad. It is a pillar of Danish defence policy and is reflected in the present defence settlement. Our F-16 aircraft have proven that fighter aircraft are an efficient and flexible tool that plays a key role in Denmark's security. As the world around us has changed over the more than 35 years since the purchase of the first F-16 aircraft, we have been able to adapt and develop the aircraft on an ongoing basis. In other words, they have been adapted to maintain their relevance to new threats and challenges both at home and abroad. But we are also in the situation that our F-16 plane is soon about to be served. They're retiring. There are a number of technical and operational conditions that make it very useful that we start replacing them in the period 2020-2024. In addition, Denmark's current F-16 partners have either phased out their F-16 flights or are on their way to it. There will therefore not be good opportunities to cooperate with others on the maintenance and updating of the aircraft. Therefore, the responsible parties behind the defence agreement have set up for Denmark to have new fighter planes. The security policy landscape is changing, and Denmark's role in security policy has naturally changed in line with developments. When our predecessors here in the Assembly Hall during the Cold War decided that Denmark should have F-16s, they did not have any chance of predicting that the planes would be able to get on the wings in as many different tasks as they have been. At that time the planes were primarily supposed to assert Denmark's sovereignty in the air and solve other important domestic tasks during the Cold War. The fact that the aircraft have later participated in operations and interventions in the Balkans, in Afghanistan, Libya and in the Baltic states underlines the flexibility of the aircraft. Denmark's current F-16 contribution to the international coalition against ISIL in Iraq has again confirmed us that the Danish fighter planes constitute a central capacity in Danish defence. I would like to take this opportunity today to express my sincere thanks and also to pay tribute to our pilots and other personnel deployed for the efforts being made in the fight against ISIL in Iraq. The planes are not only on their wings in Iraq to support the fight against a cruel terrorist movement. They are also a daily pillar of our territorial resistance. In the first 4 months of 2015 alone, Denmark's refusal response has been on its wings 15 times. It stresses that the aircraft carry out important domestic tasks while contributing to the mission to the protection of civilians in conflict zones far from the borders of Denmark. Kampfly is therefore an effective and flexible tool in the Danish defence, and the changing world of security policy means that there will also be a need for Denmark to be in possession of fighter aircraft in the future. Fortunately, Denmark is not alone in dealing with the challenges that need to be addressed. Our defence and security policy is characterised by our sustained efforts to strengthen the central international organisations and also the international legal order. Both NATO and the UN have a crucial role to play in addressing complex security policy challenges, and by contributing to the opportunities for action of the two organisations, Denmark also promotes its own security policy interests. Unlike the impression one can get from Enhedslisten's query, the two organisations are not each other's opposites. On the contrary, Denmark must continue to engage in both NATO and the UN and contribute to the organisations' ability to address global security challenges effectively and quickly. Danish participation in both organisations helps the international community to have the widest possible palette of tools to solve international security policy issues. The territorial integrity of Denmark is ensured by Article 5 of NATO's commitment to collective defence of the territory of the alliance. This means not only that Denmark is guaranteed support, but also that we are obliged, in accordance with our ability and our ability, to make our contribution to the common security of the alliance. It also follows that NATO is demanding Danish fighter aircraft in the so-called strength targets assigned to Denmark by NATO. At the same time as our efforts in NATO, Denmark must also continue to contribute to ensuring international peace and security through the UN. It is in the interests of all countries that international peace and security be anchored in an international legal order. Therefore, Denmark will continue to be an active partner in the international community and in the UN's efforts to ensure that international law is respected. I would therefore like to stress that the acquisition of new fighter aircraft is in no way in contrast to Denmark's active efforts to ensure that the UN continues to provide a strong foundation for legitimate conflict management. In accordance with the principle of responsibility to protect, we must support the UN's ability to intervene when human rights are violated and violence and cruelty take over. Action must be taken when terrorist groups with medieval human vision create chaos, destruction and instability, and by continuing to contribute to the UN's peace-building and conservation efforts and missions with a wide range of civilian and military instruments, we can also make an active Danish contribution to a peaceful world in the future. It is therefore quite wrong to claim that Denmark's military contribution to NATO missions runs counter to our desire to maintain international peace and security through the UN. The Danish fighter planes should not fly alone in defending Denmark's safety and interests. We must and must use other tools, just as we must cooperate with our allies and partners. Therefore, the acquisition of new fighter aircraft is not an opt-out of Denmark's major commitment to capacity building and reconstruction in fragile states and conflict zones. Together with important civilian and peace-building efforts, we can continue to be an active partner in the efforts of the international community to maintain an international legal order and to prevent innocent civilians from being attacked. As a small country, we cannot and must not rely solely on military means in our efforts to influence the development of the world for the better, but fighter planes are a tool that may be needed to protect people in need. Both the UN and NATO are at the heart of the fact that we have the right tools to ensure international peace and security. Therefore, it is also gratifying that a broad majority in the Folketing is behind our pilots' efforts around the world, our deployed efforts around the world, as we see right now in the fight against ISIL, but also that we take responsibility for the future of our fighters, even at a time when our F-16s are going to retire.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133205	Thank you to the Minister for Defence for answering the question. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133224	Thank you. The Enhedslisten wants to discuss what foreign policy we should pursue in the future, before the defence tribunal spends 30 billion. kr. on unsafe war materials. That is why we have called this debate. I believe that as a country we must be able to do much more for peace and security in the world, but I do not believe that we are doing this by buying fighter planes. We are doing this by giving priority to what we were once good internationally: UN peacekeeping missions, development, emergency aid and political dialogue and national by ensuring the proper functioning of territorial defence. I do not believe that the purchase of fighter aircraft will contribute either to a peaceful foreign policy or to strengthening Denmark's security. The American aircraft, which was favorite to the trade, Joint Strike Fighter, is after many years of delay not yet fully developed. The plane is plagued by deadly faults and shortcomings, and the price increases uncontrolledly. If we buy this fighter plane, it's to go to active war. The manufacturer even markets the aircraft that it is particularly suitable for making an attack in the first wave when new countries are to be attacked. So the plane is not an obvious choice to defend Danish territory. Already the F-16 can cover the need to patrol and defend Danish airspace. It's working on the F-16s when they're on international bomb missions. That is why we must, of course, decide whether that is our priority. What we must basically consider is whether Denmark should spend many billions of dollars on fighter planes and an aggressive military in order to wage war with the loss of many lives and the risk of further destabilisation of the world. Honestly, I mean, we've made that mistake before. The war of Denmark and the United States in Iraq has paved the way for the chaos that has created room for the extremists from ISIL. Libya is today a civil war-torn hell. It is hard to see that fighter planes create stability in the world. The position of the Enhedslisten is therefore clear. We think that Denmark should completely drop the purchase of fighter aircraft. We want a foreign and security policy aimed at peacekeeping missions under the auspices of the United Nations, and then we do not need aircraft of attack. On the other hand, they are skilled and well-educated UN soldiers on land, as well as relief and transport aircraft. You spend 30 billion dollars. kr. On new fighter planes, there are obviously other things you can't afford to pay for something that won't be prioritized. For example: I would like to remind the Danish Parliament that a decision was taken by rejecting the UN's request to send Danish UN soldiers to the Golan Heights to secure the ceasefire between Israel and Syria. That decision was made because it was too busy waging war in Afghanistan. It is, of course, a clear example of the consequence of what kind of wars you engage in, because there are other things you cannot do. I think the crucial question is how we contribute most from Denmark to a more peaceful world and at the same time increase Denmark's security. I do not believe that fighter planes are the answer and therefore, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I make the following: Proposals for adoption Denmark's objective should be to conduct a peaceful foreign policy. Our international commitment must first and foremost support countries and popular movements to achieve democracy and human rights. We should contribute to combating inequality and poverty and support green conversion. In conflict areas Denmark should contribute to conflict resolution, mediation and political dialogue. Among other things, this can be done. in cooperation with the other Nordic countries. The main task of the Danish military should be international peacekeeping operations under the United Nations, and should be nationally territorially defended by Denmark. Therefore, Denmark should not buy new fighter planes. • V 59).
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133639	The proposal for adoption read out is part of the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133647	I'd like to get something straight. I could understand that Enhedslisten is in principle against fighter planes at all; that is what was the message from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. And so it is that I would like to know whether it is not true that the Kurds at Kobane had never been able to stand up to the IS if they had not been supported from the air by American fighters; that Arbil in Northern Iraq had fallen to the IS last year, had there not been any help from American fighters; that after the first Gulf War, where they gained a very large degree of autonomy, had never been achieved if there had not been the no-fly zone to be secured by fighters. But I understand that Enhedslisten is simply opposed in principle to using that kind of capacity.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133748	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen to give the opportunity to clarify what Enhedslisten thinks, if it should have been unclear. Enhedslisten is not in principle against fighter planes. I mean, I'm not here to say that we have to abolish the F-16s, but what we're saying is that we're against the purchase of new fighter planes. In addition, our clear position is that the experience of using fighter aircraft around the world advocates that this is not a particularly good way to ensure peace and stability. In this way Libya speaks for itself here the UN mandate was broken and the country is today a great chaos. As far as the Kurds are concerned, the fact is that the weapons sought by the Kurds, for example at Kobane, have been refused by the Folketing. The Enhedslisten tabled a motion for a resolution which, unfortunately, the SF also voted against. Later I have heard that the SF has expressed itself that one should be to send weapons to the Kurds. But it is obvious to help so that you can manage without fighters in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133857	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133906	I understand that the Enhedslisten recognizes, after all, that these fighter planes were a necessary prerequisite for holding up to IS. But I really think the answer is interesting. I understand that Enhedslisten will keep the old F-16s, that is that it has become the policy of Enhedslisten that we must keep the old F-16s. But the problem is that they can no longer fly around after 2020. It is like the whole basic problem here; it is that they are so worn out that after 2020 they cannot fly anymore. Does the Enhedslisten really want Danish pilots to get on a plane that cannot fly; who has cracks in the frame; and in which it is deeply irresponsible to fly in? That can't be right. In any case, I would have liked to develop that policy by just keeping the old F-16s. I think that's really interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526133959	Well, thank you. Well, the situation is that it sounds like it's more dangerous to get up in that F-35 Joint Strike Fighter plane, as it spins around and tends to break into fire; that was at least according to the latest report from the U.S. Department of Defense. But in relation to the F-16s, I would say that the reality is that they can last many more years if you want to have a smaller number, i.e. if you use some of the spare parts from those you have to put out of service to maintain the others. So it is basically a question of how many fighter planes Denmark should have. And if we want enough fighter planes to maintain territorial defence in Denmark, we don't need to buy new fighter planes. We only have that if we want to continue to pursue an aggressive military line around the world, and that is what Enhedslisten simply does not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134048	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten questions. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, I understand, as the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134058	Thank you for that, President. Yes, the honourable Members of the Folketing must settle for themselves, as Troels Lund Poulsen has unfortunately been prevented, and as my vote is under Gajol and Strepsil treatment, I apologise in advance if it is the case that it becomes a little unclear. For the Left, it has been crucial for our defence and security policy over all the years that we have a credible and strong defence. The Danish F16 aircraft are planned to be used until the beginning of the 2020s. After that, the aircraft will be 40 years old, they will be worn out and technologically outdated, and that means that we are already approaching the time when we have to take a position on the issue of compensation for aircraft, and there are more bids under consideration. We believe that Danish fighter aircraft have made a decisive difference over the past many years, as they have been sent to various hotspots in important international operations: in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. The Danish air force makes a significant difference, a significant difference. The Left will maintain the Secretary of Defense at the December 2012 defence settlement. Here it was decided that a type choice on fighter aircraft should be made in 2015 and we look forward to being invited by the Secretary of Defense and included in the decision-making process. To respond more specifically to Enhedslisten and Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's question I would like to say that we believe that Danish defence needs to have combat aircraft at its disposal. It is absolutely crucial that we, as an economically strong nation, can help to offer, for example. air policying to our Baltic friends. It is also crucial that we can use Danish fighter planes to fight terrorists in the IS. It is crucial that we are willing to use financial resources to maintain our sovereignty. It is also crucial that we are willing to deploy our fighter aircraft and defend our international interests and engage ourselves in an activist foreign policy. The debate has so far been quite interesting, because I can understand what Mr Tugendhat has said. Nikolaj Villumsen that Enhedslisten is no longer a party that disclaims any use of weapons. That wasn't more than eight months ago, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen stood in the Chamber and tabled a motion for a resolution to send arms to the Kurds in Kobane. And Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's excellent question from the past clearly shows that there is a certain, let me call it a lack of consistency in the way Enhedslisten conducts politics. It seems that you are ready to defend your freedom as long as it is done cheaply, so long as you do not have to spend a lot of money on it. At the same time, there have also been major advertisements in the various net media and in the country's publications, where we see an elderly lady who, according to Enhedslisten, cannot get home help because the money is spent on fighter planes. If all our allies, and if all our NATO partners thought in the same way, then no one would defend our democratic society and were ready to go to war to secure our freedoms and our fundamental human rights. I am, of course, aware that it must be frustrating when one's perception of the world is not in line with the facts, and that is also why Enhedslisten, as the only party, is outside the defence settlement. We consider the purchase of fighter aircraft to be crucial for Danish defence, and we look forward to the future process. However, I would like to take this opportunity to make a comment. It is my understanding that this is at least the opinion I have received from several sources that the evaluation of the three types of fighter aircraft is gradually being completed. On the other hand, I do not believe that it has been passed on to the Minister. We are, of course, betting that after the agreement in June 2015, we will have the opportunity to get involved in it, and I hope we can have a comment on that. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134448	There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134453	Thank you. Then I would just like to call on the Left to support the proposal from the Enhedslisten that that basis of decision should also be forwarded to the Folketing so that we can have an open and democratic debate on this big purchase. But for what the rapporteur has said: the rapporteur says that we have to buy new fighter planes. Then I would like to know why the Left thinks it is so urgently necessary. Is it in order to maintain a territorial defence of Denmark, for then the Left can rule out buying the Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, which is suitable for attack wars, where you have to be in the first wave? Or is the goal of the Left to continue to make wars of attack around the world, as we among other things. So the Left vote in favour of the 2003 Iraq War, which, frankly, I do not believe has contributed to either peace or stability or democracy in Iraq or in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134553	After all, Danish political history is filled with examples of how bad things are in economic terms when politicians in this Parliament decide what kind of weapons or equipment they want to buy. Well, that's why we've been asking people who, fortunately, are smarter than both of you. Nikolaj Villumsen and the undersigned, to give an expert opinion. We'll deal with that when it's done. We believe that Danish defence needs the capacity offered by modern fighter aircraft. Where they are to be used, the future must show, but I will certainly not rule out the fact that we will vote again for the use of Danish fighter aircraft in the fight against the terrible elements that terrorise Iraq and Syria. I think this is a worthy mission. I was also pleased that fighter planes made a decisive difference when they stopped ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and helped to break Slobodan Milosevic and so on. etc. That is why I think we have to note that there is a fundamental fundamental difference of principle between the Enhedslisten and the Left, and that is both in relation to the way we see Danish defence needs and the way we want to promote Danish defence policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134659	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134701	Thank you. Well, obviously, it's really interesting to see what this expert assessment shows that individual aircraft can be used for. That is why it is relevant for the Folketing to see it so that we can have a debate on it. But it is not too much to ask the Left to take a position on what they want to do politically with these planes. That is why I am asking the rapporteur of the Left whether they will be used to defend Denmark, because then the Left can rule out buying F-35 aircraft if they can only be used or can best be used for, as the manufacturer says, the first wave of attacks, because then that is not what you have to use them for, if you only want to defend Denmark. So I think the Left owes an answer to what they really want with this purchase.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134747	We want a versatile, modern fighter aircraft capable of solving a wide range of operational tasks. We've said that before, and we still mean that. On the other hand, I find it difficult to identify the response the rapporteur is fishing for. We have a fundamental disagreement. We believe it is important for Danish defence and essential for our ability to conduct an activist foreign policy. I am aware that that view does not share the Enhedslisten. There's nothing to do about that. We'll never agree on that. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134816	Mrs Krarup, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134821	It was a mistake. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134827	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Annette Lind as the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526134840	Some time ago we discussed the decision to buy new fighter planes for the defense here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Here, of course, we also talked about the need for the new fighter planes. That decision is a big one and must be taken, which is why we in the Socialist Group are pleased that we can take the debate again in this Chamber today. The Danish F-16s have been on their wings for 35 years in the Danish defence, and we all know that nothing, as you know, lasts forever. On the contrary, it is estimated that there will be significant operational and technical challenges associated with the fact that we now need to use the F-16s in the future. Therefore, a phasing-out of the F-16 flights is also planned for the years 2020-2024. So the need for the new fighters has been based on the defence agreement concluded for 2013-2017. The 2009 report of the Defence Commission sets out a number of tasks that the fighter aircraft will have to solve in the future. On this point, we Social Democrats do not agree with the Enhedslisten that this is either a-or in terms of being able to participate in missions with NATO and the UN. Indeed, the security situation requires that Danish defences have tools that ensure Denmark's flexibility and that can be adapted to the defence and security challenges we face. In recent operations we have seen the Danish fighter planes as an efficient and flexible capacity, which can perform both important domestic tasks such as: territorial rejection preparedness and which may take part, inter alia: in international operations. New fighter aircraft are also expected to be used in national and international operations, as is the case, for example. the coalition against ISIL and air policying tasks that Danish fighters have solved in recent months. The abolition of new fighter planes must therefore ensure that Denmark continues to solve such tasks, tasks where we also need to engage in operational cooperation with other allies, that is, combat aircraft that have flexibility. However, the acquisition of new fighter planes does not mean the opt-out of diplomacy and peacekeeping efforts from the point of view of social democrats. Indeed, we believe that in the future Denmark must continue our great commitment, including in the United Nations, in terms of capacity building and help protect civilian populations in conflict zones and rebuild war-torn societies. I have to say that the radical rapporteur could not be here and that is why I am also speaking on behalf of the Radical Left. With the rapporteur's speech, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of S, V, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF: Proposals for adoption Defence must be able to assert the sovereignty of the Danish Empire, ensure the country's continued existence, integrity and security, and contribute to the defence of Danish foreign and security policy interests. In this context, it is crucial that Denmark also has an effective defence in the future that can flexibly and quickly solve the tasks decided by the government and the Folketing. The Danish Parliament therefore notes, in accordance with the Danish Defence Commission's report and defence reconciliations 2010-2014 and 2013-2017, that Denmark must also have a combat aircraft capacity in the future and that this implies a need for the acquisition of new fighter aircraft. The Danish Parliament also notes that the acquisition of new fighter aircraft does not conflict with continued Danish participation in conflict prevention, diplomacy and peacekeeping efforts. Denmark's security is thus still best ensured through membership of NATO and the UN and an active and broad-spectrum international commitment. • V 60).
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135226	The proposal for adoption read out by the rapporteur is part of the debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135236	Thank you for that and thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I would like to know what the position of the Socialists is in relation to whether these fighter planes are going to create jobs in Denmark. In the past we have heard from the Minister for Defence when he had just joined, where he said to the DR, and that is a quote: If there are no jobs in Denmark, there will be no new aircraft. Since then, the European Union has banned the so-called counter-buy, which would allow the purchase of fighter aircraft to mean Danish jobs. So I just have to understand the Social Democrats: is it really the position of the Social Democrats that they are going to spend up to 30 billion? kr. on a public purchase which does not provide a single job in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135325	It is the case that there is a combat aircraft office that sits and makes a professional and very professional assessment of what fighter planes we should have. A number of criteria have also been laid down here, such as: I have four criteria for the types to be included in this choice. There are industrial conditions below, and this highlights to a large extent how the candidates support important Danish security activities through industrial cooperation with the Danish defence industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135353	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135355	Thank you. It is of course interesting to hear what one of the criteria is, because so far, the criteria that the defence committees lay behind their deliberations on buying new fighter planes have been secret to the Folketing and the public. But the problem is that precisely this industrial policy, which requires counter-buys, is what the European Commission has been saying that we must not. So I just have to understand the Socialists: is it the case that you want to make a purchase of 30 billion? kr. without getting a single Danish workplace out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135430	There is a very professional and very long work to find out what kind of fighter we should have. As I said before, one of the criteria is industrial cooperation, and that is what we are dealing with as one of the sticks, but there are also many other things that need to be done. First and foremost, we must have the right fighter plane for Denmark and for the Danish defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135453	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup who is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135501	Denmark needs a strong defence, including fighter planes, in order to assert its sovereignty. Denmark must, of course, be ready to defend its freedom and peace of its allies when it is needed, and Denmark needs to fulfil its NATO commitments. NATO is our basis and our most important alliance and thus the focal point of our security. So of course Denmark must have fighter planes. Fighting aircraft, in which we have decided to invest, will be paid above the defence framework and are, of course, pre-determined and can therefore be financed without long-term welfare degradation. A defense that can be used for something, that is. A defence that has fighter planes is the price of our freedom and our peace. Without freedom and peace there is no welfare and security. Defence is our insurance policy and, in order to continue to have freedom and peace and thus welfare and security, we need to maintain a strong defence. The Danish People's Party certainly supports the purchase of fighter planes to replace the old ones, and the Danish People's Party cannot therefore support Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption, but can support what the Social Democratic Party has put forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135641	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135644	Thank you. Of course, I think it is a pity that the Danish People's Party cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption. I do not want to anticipate a major debate on zero growth right now, but I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party something. When we find ourselves in a situation where we know that the money can be scarce in the future, as if one were, for example, in the future. Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's zero growth policy, is it the position of the Danish People's Party that you want to stick to the purchase of fighter planes, even if there is no money for welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135716	We expect there to be money for both. Remember that the fighter planes do not have to be paid at once and that this is something that is foreseen. So it's not two things that go against each other. But if one cannot assert one's sovereignty, if one cannot maintain the freedom and peace that we have today, then we also have little to use welfare crowns on, because then it may be that some others will decide what we need them for. And what's it gonna do? So what kind of welfare is that? So without freedom and peace, it is not much worth using welfare crowns either. So in this way maintaining a strong defence is the prerequisite for freedom and peace, but also for welfare and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135759	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135801	Frankly, that was a rather unclear answer. In concrete terms, if there is a lack of money for welfare, then the Danish People's Party will still carry out this huge purchase of about 30 billion. kr., which will then be money you can't spend on anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135821	That's different. Then there is not much fun in spending money on welfare, if it is an Osama bin Laden type that has been given the opportunity to influence how to spend the money in Denmark. So if we don't have our own freedom and our own peace, it's not very fun to spend that kind of money on anything. So that's why having a strong defense is the foundation that it makes sense at all to spend money for welfare and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135849	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526135903	When we have this discussion about new fighter planes, it's because the old F-16s have to be replaced. This was discussed very carefully in the work of the Defence Commission in 2008, and the assessment is that when you get to around 2025, it doesn't make sense to continue with the old F-16s. You can compare it a little with an old car. You can have an old car and send it to the workshop and change spare parts and replace the engine, but at some point it is just no longer profitable. Then it is most profitable to buy a new car. Similarly, it may be possible to prolong life a little further here, but it will be extremely expensive, it is difficult to get spare parts, there are ever more problems with the cracks in frame etc., and therefore it is irresponsible to continue with it. That is why the discussion is not really about whether we should have new fighters; it is about whether we should have fighters at all and, ultimately, whether we should have an air force or not. We believe in the SF that it makes sense that we maintain the air force, that we maintain fighter planes. There are various reasons for this. This is important in terms of territorial defence, with a response to rejection, where aircraft can go up and reject enemy aircraft that come too close. This is important in relation to air policy, as we are doing at the moment in the Baltic, and as was done in Iraq after the first Gulf War, which ensured that the Kurds were able to live peacefully because Saddam Hussein's aircraft could be rejected. This is important in relation to international operations, where it provides flexibility that is quite important. I think most people recognise, although they will not admit that the Afghanistan war was a failure. This is recognised by the fact that, in practice, we know that this is not repeated, and that is why we do not want boots on the ground in Iraq at the moment, and that is why aircraft are a very useful tool. It is flexible, and it fits very well with a doctrine that has begun to work with in defence, about quickly and quickly home, and therefore it provides a flexibility which is quite good as such. The Enhedslisten is very busy saying that this costs 30 billion. kr., and that they are taken for welfare. Firstly, no one knows if it costs 30 billion. kr. Actually, there isn't a soul who knows anything about what these planes are going to cost. Secondly, there are also different things to have in the back of your head. There is the purchase price, there are lifetime costs, but basically no one knows what aircraft are going to cost. Nobody knows what kind of aircraft we're going to buy. Nobody knows how many planes we're going to buy. That's why this is the 30 billion. kr. The Enhedslisten has succeeded in getting many of the media to run with a story that now we are spending 30 billion. kr. on new planes. But we really don't know anything about that. Thirdly, it is also deeply manipulative to say that they are being taken from the welfare area. This money has to be taken from the defense's own economy. They must be found in the general fund of defence, and to the extent that it is necessary to cut back elsewhere, it will be in the defence sector that we have to cut back. But if it is necessary, we do not actually know, because we do not know what it is going to cost. We do not know about the payment profile that will be over how many years it will be paid and how it will affect the annual procurement of equipment in the defence. But there's not one crown taken from welfare through this. I think that is very important to say, and I would hope that this message, like the media, will pop in at some point. It is a deeply manipulative context that is made there by Enhedslisten. Of course it's effective, I can see that, because it's easy to understand, but it's just wrong. That's not the way things are. Like I said, we don't know how many we're gonna have. In our opinion, we should have as few aircraft as possible and as cheap aircraft as possible. How this is to be combined, we have to look at when there is a basis for decision-making. We are currently working on this in the Ministry of Defence, and it will be presented to the conciliation circle at some point later this year, I believe. I don't know when, but we'll decide on that. Of course, we must also have a public debate on what kind of aircraft is best, but we just do not have a basis on which to do so at the moment. We also need to have a debate on what the aircraft would be used for. I have mentioned three areas: territorial defence and preparedness for refusal, air policy and international operations. Then we will have to look at how the different types of aircraft fit the tasks that need to be solved here. We will have a discussion on this, hopefully also a public discussion, but we will have to take it at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140416	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140419	Thank you. I have two questions. Firstly, I would like to hear whether SF, if it is really true, will support that the evaluation, when completed, will be forwarded to the Folketing, as SF said when we discussed the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten a few days ago. Secondly, I would like to hear from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's comment on what he said to Berlingske on 8 February that we have become too warrior, that Denmark has become a warrior nation, and that instead we should bet on what we are best for: development aid, diplomacy and political solutions: how does it relate to spending a large number of billions on fighter planes, which one can hear that the Left wants to use for wars around the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140514	Just leave the left out of it. In other words, what they say I cannot take responsibility for, and I do not want to take responsibility for that. As far as the analysis is concerned, I should like to say that I do not know about any analysis. Well, I think they're working on it at the moment in the Department of Defense. It has been heard from the Enhedslisten that there have been long debates behind closed doors in the defence circle, but we have hardly discussed this here, because there is still no basis for discussing it. I do not know what that basis is, and I cannot therefore answer whether it is going to the Folketing or where it is going before it comes. But I guess it's coming over to the Folketing. That's what's meant to be. As far as peacekeeping is concerned, I do not think there is any contradiction between the pursuit of a less warlike foreign policy and the getting of these planes, which are supposed to replace some old aircraft. It also depends on how many we get and what kind of aircraft it will be. I think that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen completely misses the basic question: Should we have any planes at all or not? And there I could understand that Enhedslisten will keep the old F-16s. It is Enhedslisten's new policy to keep the old F-16s. I certainly do not think it is a very visionary policy, either way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140630	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140631	Well, it has to be said that the SF has previously believed that the F-16s were in good shape and that they could still be kept for a long time. This was felt back in 2009, when the purchase was cancelled. So right next door it is not, and basically it is a discussion about how many aircraft Denmark should have. But I would like an answer to the question I asked, namely: will the SF support and demand that the evaluation be forwarded to the Folketing? And is it really a peaceful foreign policy if you acquire some fighter planes that we can hear other parties in the Folketing intend to use to make offensive wars of attack around the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140724	Well, listen to me: the militaristic, so-called activist foreign policy of the Left is not being changed by whether or not we buy any new aircraft. The Left has had it all along, and they want it in the future too. So it is a complete nonsense to say about it that you go in and buy some new aircraft, which, incidentally, will probably mean fewer aircraft than we currently have. That will be our position, and I also think it is quite likely that we will actually have fewer aircraft than we currently have. And the fact that the Left then says something that they have meant since 2001 cannot be used as an argument in relation to anything in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140801	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140805	I do not consider myself to be either more activist or warlike than Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, but will Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does not confirm that it is a good idea that we use Danish fighter planes to bomb the Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140819	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140821	Of course we can have a major debate on the strategy in Iraq. We have supported the Danish operation down there, but I would like to say to Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, that there is no possibility that we can beat the Islamic State by means of fighter planes it is a complete impossibility. That is why we need to recognise that the maximum we can do is that we can slow down their progress and we can support local ground troops in doing so. This has been done about Kobane I mentioned earlier. Kobane would not have been rescued if it had not been supported from above by US fighters, and so the Kurdish area last summer had also fallen to IS if the Peshmerga forces had not been helped at that time. But it's an illusion to think that you can win the war down there using fighter planes. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140913	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140915	Thank you to the rapporteur for his reply. I therefore agree with the rapporteur; I share the rapporteur's view both of the possibility of using fighter aircraft and of their effect on, for example, military aircraft. Battle of Kobane. When I mention this, it is simply because I think it is a little unnecessary that the rapporteur should begin to highlight my party as being particularly warlike. I am well aware that there is a debate with the Enhedslisten on the extreme left, but could we not stick to what is now at stake, namely the purchase of fighter aircraft and the sensibleness of that debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526140946	Since mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt himself is now showing up, so I would like to point out that when Anders Fogh Rasmussen became Prime Minister there was a paradigm change in Danish foreign policy. In the past, where a great deal had been invested in the UN and in non-military solutions, there was a clear commitment to the transatlantic, to the United States, to George Bush, to the Iraq war and to military solutions to the problems of the world. It was a paradigm shift that happened there, and there I said to some newspapers that we disagreed that we wanted to return to the old Danish foreign policy, but it is not contrary to replacing these old F-16 aircraft that cannot fly after 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141030	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141037	Thank you. In fact, the question is quite simple, namely: What can the government say about the Danish defence need to acquire new fighter planes? It may well be that it is a little lost in the discussion that is taking place here, but it has been answered quite clearly that we have planes that are going to retire and that have served Denmark well and have played a significant role, and that is because we have done a good job when we have sent our people away. That is why I would like to endorse the Minister for Defence's signals from today's platform that we have skilled pilots; we have skilled people around these planes when we put them in. We can be proud of that, and we have reason to thank you for that when we discuss the need for the future and so be. With what we have been able to deliver and the appreciation that is of it, it is quite natural that we should continue to have the opportunity to participate in this way in the future, and we can only do so if we accept that material needs to be renewed. The people we ask to do a dangerous job for Denmark must have the best equipment so that they are both protected and able to carry out their task to the letter. That is the answer to what the government can tell us about why we need new fighter planes in Denmark. Fortunately, a very broad circle of parties in the Folketing is behind this. That is why there is perhaps one thing that can be welcomed today, and it is that everyone, including the Enhedslisten, agrees that it should ensure peace and security in the world, and that we must ensure peace and security for Denmark. The only question is how we get there. It is therefore gratifying that we can see here today that there is a great deal of gathering about it. Then, by the way, I also think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, I think it was, pointed out that it might be untimely at all to discuss which aircraft it is and what they should be able to do. It has not been discussed at all, it is not on the wallpaper at all, and there is nothing to publish or to ignore at this stage. It will certainly be discussed at the appropriate time and place, I believe, when the necessary information is there. Then we'll take a stand at that time. So support for the proposal put forward by the Social Democratic Party for adoption by the Folketing, and no to the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141328	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141330	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Liberal Alliance: when you are going to spend significantly less money on the public sector, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur can then confirm that exactly on fighter planes there should be no less money spent there you are actually going to spend what can be at least up to 30 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141355	The Liberal Alliance can state that we have a well-thought-out plan that we have put forward, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen and where the basis has been provided to ensure prosperity and prosperity and a significant increase in GDP in the future. We have the entrance to it that it is prosperity that ensures welfare, and there is money for that in our plan, which is then, moreover, well-thought out • I look forward to the day that Enhedslisten presents a case that can be considered and accepted in the Ministry of Finance in all policy areas. Therefore, it is quite obvious that this has nothing to do with the possibility of ensuring welfare in Denmark. As has already been mentioned here from the platform today, there are defence budgets that go a long way forward, and we are quite ready to do so, and there will also be an economy for that, and that has nothing to do with the other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141450	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141452	Thank you. I take it as a confirmation that yes, the Liberal Alliance is not going to find the money for fighters elsewhere in public welfare. That's a clear speech. I think that is a good thing to confirm today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141511	Yeah, that's gotta be the hearing, it's wrong with down there with mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. I have just pointed out that the Liberal Alliance has a plan that has been calculated to ensure that there is affordability, increased welfare in the future, because we are precisely removing bureaucracy and changing the balance between the private and the public sectors, which ensures that there is affordability in the future, but it may be that hearing will improve later. However, it is quite clear on our part that no other welfare area will be paying for fighter aircraft in our plan at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141546	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141558	Thank you. I have promised our defence rapporteur, Mike Legarth, to state the following: the Conservative People's Party supports the work being done on the purchase of new defence equipment. We basically want the Danish defence to have the best equipment, and we believe that Danish aircraft can play an important role in international tasks. We also hope that Enhedslisten will support better equipment, regardless of what they think of participation in various military operations. For example, we want to continue the fight against the Islamic State and that we have the opportunity to reject Putin's aircraft when they violate our airspace. In both places Danish fighter planes can play an important role.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141640	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141644	Thank you. I understand that the Conservatives are concerned about the possibility of Russian invasion. That is at least one of the arguments put forward in order to buy these fighter planes. So I would just like to know whether the Conservatives agree with the Foreign Minister when he says that there is no military threat to Denmark from Russia and whether, on that basis, we have changed our view that we have a need to buy fighter planes to prevent Russian attacks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141715	We think there's a need to buy these fighter planes. We support the government's plans to acquire necessary equipment, and as to whether it is a threat or not, I would say that what I referred to were the provocations that sometimes come at least, and of course we will have to be able to reject them if they come.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141734	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141736	Does this mean that the Conservatives disagree with the Left on what the priority of these fighter planes should be? In other words, do you think that it should mainly be for territorial defence, which must be acquired new fighter planes, or do you think that Conservatives like the Left should also be able to use them in wars of aggression around the world? It is of course relevant to which fighters you buy when, for example, we do. can hear that the favorite, i.e. the F-35 plane, is most suitable for screams of attack.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141808	The examples mentioned in the speech were two examples. We fully agree with the Left, so there is no need to raise further doubts about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141819	Thank you to the rapporteur. Does the Secretary of Defense want to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526141828	I would like to thank you for a good debate in which it has been established that all parties in this Parliament, with the exception of Enhedslisten, believe that it is a good idea that we also have fighter planes in Denmark when our F-16s are retiring, to solve tasks in Denmark and the Kingdom Community, but of course also to Denmark among others. can protect civilians around the world when needed. It is also important to make it clear that the investment we are going to make in new fighter aircraft must be found within the Ministry of Defence's budget in the coming years, which means that when you buy fighter aircraft, there will be some other things you cannot invest in. In other words, it is not money that goes from our hospitals, schools or our children that we should earmark here to buy fighter planes, but it is money that will in any case be spent in defence, and I think it is nice to have that made quite clear here today. Then I understand that Enhedslisten is preoccupied with the fact that we are allowed to have F-16s, but that we are not allowed to have other planes. I just have to say that we have been very fond of our F-16s, but we have also had them for nearly 40 years, and they are hitting the retirement age where, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, becomes such that there will be greater and greater costs if we are to keep them forward, plus that there is also a certain lifetime for how long a plane, whether it is an F-16 or another plane, is the right plane to have flying. However, we are looking at the safety of pilots and the fact that our people can be sure of the equipment we have, which, moreover, we attach great importance to, so that they can carry out the tasks we assign them to. In other words, it is a real decision that we will have to acquire new fighter planes when our F-16s retire, and all parties in this Parliament, except Enhedslisten, have supported that today, and I am pleased with that as Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142050	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142053	Thank you. I have two questions. Firstly, it has been reported from the Left today that the evaluation has been completed. I would like to hear from the Minister for Defence whether the evaluation has been completed and whether it will be forwarded to the Danish Parliament. The second question is whether the Minister of Defence can guarantee that the defence budget put in 2017 will not result in increased military spending. It is, of course, in that budget that the money for fighters must be found, so if the Minister can guarantee that there will be no money from welfare to defence and fighters, then he must guarantee today that that budget will not increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142136	It is the case that the battle aircraft office is putting the finishing touches to the work on a new fighter plane, and I expect that we will be able to discuss this issue when the next conciliation meeting is held on 18 June. As regards defence budgets after 2017, the government has not determined what they should be. What I am just saying is that it is within the defence budget that these fighters must be paid, and so it is not the case that other areas have to pay for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142217	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142219	That was not an answer to the question. So, is the evaluation done or is the evaluation not complete? Left says it's finished, LA and SF say they don't know it's done at all. What's the situation? The Secretary of Defense must know. And in relation to this budget in 2017, I just need to confirm from the Minister for Defence that it is true that you cannot guarantee that the defence budget will not increase and that, as a result of the purchase of fighter aircraft, it will be necessary to add new funds to the defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142301	It's a little sad that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, in an attempt to make everything look suspicious, does not listen to the answers given by colleagues here in Parliament and also from myself. I said very clearly that the battle aircraft office is putting the finishing touches to the work on the choice of new fighter planes. It is my expectation that I will be able to inform the defence committee further about this at the meeting which is being convened on 18 June. So I really think that is a very clear answer. The second very clear answer I can give Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, is that it is within the defence budget that these planes must be paid, and that means that when you have to buy fighter planes forward-looking, there are of course some other things you cannot invest in. So it is in a private household, and so it is for the defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142404	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. No one else has asked for the floor. Yes, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen wishes to speak again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142422	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the debate. Unfortunately, this is the first time that we have been discussing this huge purchase in Parliament, at least that we are discussing what Denmark's foreign policy should be as a consequence of this purchase. I think it is quite untenable that we have not had it discussed any more. Now we have the debate, and I hope that this can be the start of many open discussions, but that requires, of course, that we see the evaluations. I very much hope that they will be sent to the Folketing so that we can also see the criteria that are intended to buy fighter planes after. This is absolutely crucial if there is to be an open debate on this; then it requires that the information also belongs to the Folketing. At the same time, after today's debate, it is clear that unfortunately only one party wants a more peaceful Danish foreign policy, and that is the Enhedslisten. I think it is a pity that the Radicals were not here to discuss this with us, and that we from the SF do not have any support for the change that I believe should be relevant in the light of the many failed wars in Denmark in recent years. But that is unfortunately the reality, and it has come out during today's debate. I found it interesting to note that care for the Kurdish town of Kobane has suddenly become very great in this Chamber. I find this interesting, not least in view of the fact that we were in the unfortunate situation that when the city was under siege and was falling into ISIL, the parties of the Folketing rejected the Enhedslisten's proposal to support the defence. On the other hand, we have received a number of important information on the table. On the part of the Social Democrats, it is no longer the most important priority that jobs are created in Denmark with this purchase. This goes against the statements made earlier by the Minister for Defence in this area, which is why it is interesting that it is now clear that this is the position of the Socialists. In the Danish People's Party, children and the welfare of the elderly will not be given priority over the purchase of fighter aircraft, nor will it be done if it should be the case that we get into the terrible situation that Lars Løkke Rasmussen wins the election, introduces zero growth and thus lacks money for welfare. It is also good to get it straight: The Danish People's Party would rather have fighter planes than welfare. I must then add that I find it strange that one might have a situation where there are so different statements about an evaluation. I am very surprised, and I would just like to urge all the parties in the Danish Parliament to support the fact that the Danish Parliament must have this evaluation, so that we have the criteria, so that we have the opportunity to have an open and qualified debate, and so that this gigantic procurement does not take place behind closed doors in the defence circle, which I have to say has been the situation so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142752	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142755	I really should not allow myself to be provoked on behalf of my party when I hear Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's speech, but I can't give up very much on this story, where you want to patent that you protect the Kurds, among other things. in Kobane and that the rest of us have done nothing. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen must recognize that it is the international coalition's air operations that have ensured that it is possible to defend the city at all. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen's own proposal was to send weapons to the Kurds in an operationally very unqualified manner. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen therefore does not represent a party that is less belligerent, less active on that front than the rest of the Folketing. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen's party just has a different view of what is best. However, since you are now a party of solidarity, I find it strange that you do not want to help ensure that Danish defence is able to assist our neighbouring countries, among others. in the Baltic region, which has a great need for what they call air policying, that is to say security in relation to the threat that Putin poses. I think it is an incoherent argument to say that you want freedom and security as long as it does not cost money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526142904	Thank you. First of all, if the Left cares so much about Kobane's safety, I would urge you to do so when Enhedslisten comes and proposes that they should be helped. I just have to say to the Left that it wasn't just the one time that Kobane was abandoned when Enhedslisten came and suggested that weapons should be sent to them. It was also this year when the Enhedslisten came and proposed that the Turkish Government should be required to open the border on reconstruction material because there are still problems in rebuilding the city because the Turkish Government is keeping the border closed. It rejected the Left. So if you care about Kobane, I would urge you to support when Enhedslistens makes concrete proposals and will continue to do so. With regard to the Baltic, I would just like to remind the rapporteur that we had a security policy conference here in the Folketing, where it was quite clear that there is no military Russian threat to the Baltic. There is no doubt that they are afraid because they have a historical concern for good reason, but the reality is that there is no Russian march towards the Baltic. We have to deal with this in Danish foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143023	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143025	Well, I think we're just sending this tape from the Parliament Hall to the three Baltic state leaders. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has clarified that there is no threat to the Baltic. Then they can safely continue their parliamentary work. I am not sure that Enhedslisten would be the first party I would take advice from when it came to military planning. The Enhedslisten is the only party in the Danish Parliament that has not supported the efforts we are making today against the IS in Iraq, by the way, both with Danish soldiers on the ground and fighter planes in the air. That is why I just want to repeat: what I am taking from today's debate on behalf of my party is that the Enhedslisten wants peace and freedom. You're just unsolidarian, you're not willing to pay for it, and you're running a propagandist campaign, where you put welfare to the purchase of fighter planes, a context that doesn't belong anywhere. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143115	Well, thank you for the debate. I think it would be very sensible if Danish foreign and security policy were to base itself on reality on earth rather than on historical fear. This is an important prerequisite for a peaceful world. In relation to Iraq, the situation is, of course, that we see, unfortunately, that the Iraqi forces, not least the Shia militias, to which air support is being given, are committing serious acts of violence against the civilian population. There, the government, with the support of the Left, has announced that it will absolutely not take any consequences from it, even if we see that the Shia militias burn down villages, commit attacks, decapitate people when they move forward, without guaranteeing that this will not happen with Danish air support. This is a very good argument for Denmark not to support the oppressive government in Baghdad with air support. That's why Enhedslisten has said no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143209	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143213	I think it's amazing, as sir. Nikolaj Villumsen talks about all the time, I'll tell you that. He may be right in criticizing Turkey's handling of the whole Koban situation, and I agree with that, and also that greater support should have been given to the struggle of the Kurds by the West. But why not admit it, sir? Nikolaj Villumsen, that the Kurds had never held Kobane against IS if they had not received support from the air from the Americans? It was the American air support from fighter planes that made it possible for IS to be turned back. Why don't you admit it? You can be that big. Or take Iraq: it is absolutely right that there is much to criticise about the Shia militias, but if we are talking about the Kurds, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen then did not admit that the Kurds had not held up, Peshmerga had not held up, against IS last summer, if no aid had been received from American aircraft? It's just the truth of it. I think you could admit that rather than keep talking about it. So, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, who may actually be useful in using fighter planes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143331	Well, thank you. This is not new in the discussions that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and I have had that I fully acknowledge that since one was in a situation where the Kurds at Kobane and the Kurds at Nordirak, around Erbil for example, did not have the necessary weapons to turn back IS's heavy weapons, one was actually dependent on the air support. That's right. From Enhedslisten's side, we thought that Danish side could make a greater difference by specifically supporting the transport of arms to these democratic forces. In fact, as we did in Nordirak to the Kurds there, but, as the Danish Parliament and unfortunately also from the SF, when we proposed it, we refused to make the Kurds in Kobane. But that does not change the fact that the reality that we have today is that we support an oppressive government in Baghdad which is repeatedly accused of attacking the civilian population, where the Shia militias are committing violent acts. And that is unfortunately nothing new: it is part of the problem that has occurred over the last ten years, when there has been a gross repression of the Sunni Muslim population, which is pushing some of them into the hands of ISIL. We have to deal with the fact that the Danish fighter planes are supporting those who are committing serious acts of violence against the civilian population.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143450	Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143451	Again, it's out of the question. Well, I fully agree with much of what has been said here about the criticism of the Shiamuslims and their militias. But what I asked you about and it can be answered with a yes or no: will Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen does not admit that the Kurds and the Peshmerga forces had not held positions last summer if they had not received help from American aircraft? Will Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen did not admit that Kobane had fallen to IS if the Kurds had not received help from American aircraft? It's kind of just the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143539	Thank you. Well, I confirmed that in my answer before. I said, if you have a situation where you have refused to give weapons to democratic forces, and then they are attacked with very heavy weapons, as was the case when ISIL attacked with the weapons they had captured after taking Mosul, then you get a situation where you become addicted to air support from the Americans. This has been the situation both in Abil and in Kobane. So that's absolutely right. The question then is just how to help best, and that is where we from Enhedslisten suggest that you should have sent weapons, but it also rejected the Folketing at a time when there was no air support for the Kurds in Kobane. On the other hand, air support is given to an oppressive Iraqi government in Baghdad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143626	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate on the question is closed. As has already been mentioned, the proposals for adoption will be put to the vote on Thursday 28 May 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143702	I give the floor first to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526143725	Thank you for the floor. The Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the government to increase support for adult and continuing vocational training, the VEU allowance, from 80%. 100 per cent. of the maximum daily allowance rate. The reason for increasing the support is, according to Enhedslisten, that it is one of the major barriers to participation in adult and continuing vocational training because, in the view of Enhedslisten, it is again impossible for many people to move from full-time work and pay to such a low income. This is why Enhedslisten wants an increase in the rate of reimbursement in order to get more people to participate in adult and continuing vocational training. I understand the intention of Enhedslisten's proposal. It is, of course, the case that the decision to cut the VEU allowance to 80%. was part of the former VK government's so-called recovery package of 2010, which we voted against then, and we still think it is a wrong resolution. But in today's Denmark we also have to prioritise our resources. We are also part of different contractual circles, and that is why we have chosen in a number of other ways to give priority to adult and continuing training, because we fully share the Enhedslisten's view that this is one of the unique things we have in Denmark, namely the flexibility to be able to train both in other sectors or within the industries in which you are, so that you have as solid a foothold in the labour market as possible, and it is also for the benefit of companies with very competent employees. I would therefore like to mention the range of initiatives that have been taken under this government, and I can see from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that these are also some proposals that I think Enhedslisten will also think are a good idea. I am sure that some of them are something that has happened with the votes of the Enhedslisten, but I think, in order to draw a complete picture, that I would say that this is indeed something we have prioritised as much as we could, of course, in respect of the fact that there have also been limits to what we have had in the economy to set a number of measures in motion, but here we have actually done it. First of all, I would like to mention that in 2014 we set aside 1 billion. kr. for adult and continuing training, of which 643 million. kr. In the case of vocational training, vocational training was extended to adult and further training. These are some means which have helped to ensure a flexible AMU system, such as: the possibility of better organization of the training according to the needs of the students. That is, for example, the case. e.g. In concrete terms, it is easier to take AMU also outside what can be regarded as normal working hours, in fact for the benefit of the employees, in order for them to be able to participate in it. Those funds have also helped to reduce participants' fees for technical, professional and mercantile courses, and these are courses that have been selected, as they are precisely areas that support growth and competitiveness. One of the important initiatives taken is that people with outdated higher education have been given the opportunity to participate in AMU courses under the same conditions as skilled and unskilled people, i.e.: without having to pay full participants' fees. I would also like to point out that, as part of the reform of vocational training, the government has also made the way from unskilled to skilled more direct and targeted by creating what is called EUV or vocational training for adults, and that is what gives the big leap from unskilled to skilled. In this way, adults over 25 years of age are given the right to receive credits for all or part of their internship if they have relevant either labour market or training experience that counts in this respect. It is also the case that, in the context of the reform of employment, we have highlighted the training and retraining of the unemployed. It is certainly not a matter for the Ministry of Education, but I think that we should look at what we can do here to ensure the necessary qualification of employees. This also applies, of course, to the unemployed. One of the things that has happened is a focus on the adult apprentice scheme, among other things. through an increased grant and also the grant period for adult apprentices coming from unemployment. We have set aside a pool for training boosts where unskilled unemployed people over 30 years of age can take vocational training during the benefit period. Then money is also provided for a regional training pool, so that more benefit recipients can get short vocational training courses targeted sectors where job openings are expected. On top of all this, there are also the ongoing courses which promote some of the basic general skills such as reading writing and arithmetic, which we also know are important for both retention and skills development in the labour market. So there are a large number of initiatives which, fortunately, have otherwise supported the high priority given by the government to adult and further training. The Enhedslisten considers that an increase in the rate of reimbursement is the main barrier to participation in the VEU and the development from unskilled to skilled because the students cannot live on an income of 80%. of the daily allowance rate. I would just like to say a word about this, because it is actually the case that the vast majority of students receive full pay during the AMU course, while the remuneration goes to employers as compensation. The participants do not therefore typically experience a reduction in wages and an increase in the rate of VEU reimbursement will not have an effect on their income during the course of training for most students. I therefore do not agree that the rate of reimbursement is the main barrier. I believe that the many measures we have taken are of benefit to supporting continuing training. We can also see that this small increase in AMU activity is about to occur again. So that is why the government cannot support the resolution, but I would like to stress that we fully agree with the intention of having as flexible and as good an adult and continuing training system as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144310	A brief remark from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144313	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your support for this intention. It is quite true what the Minister says, namely that many of the actions taken in the field of continuing training have been carried out in cooperation between the government and the Enhedslisten. So it's not really because we're going to override those moves. It is our clear view that the VEU allowance means something for continuing training, and I would just like to ask the Minister whether it is the government's view that the remuneration is important when it comes to continuing training or whether it is not important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144353	It is clear that for those employees who do not get the full amount of money, I would like to stress that it is still the case that most participants and most students will not experience that wage reduction, because the compensation goes to the employers. But I would also like to stress that we have set in motion a number of other activities, and we can also see that the field of adult and continuing training is growing, and we can finally see that something is also beginning to happen in the area of AMU, which has, of course, been one of the major areas affected by it. So it shows that the other initiatives that have been launched seem to have the expected effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144435	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144437	Thank you. When we share this intention or ambition that more unskilled and, in other words, skilled workers should have continuing training, it is of course interesting to discuss what the solution is, because when the VEU allowance was reduced, there was also a decline in continuing training activities and in which groups took up continuing training. It's our analysis in Enhedslisten that this is gonna make things right. If it's not the government's analysis, what's its analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144513	I have no doubt that at that time it was important to do it. That is also why we voted against the then VK government, which cut the benefit from 100 per cent. to the 80%. It was definitely not our cup of tea. Nor am I in any doubt that it was directly contributing to the fall in activity at that time. Moreover, it was at a time when it was needed in the labour market. I am all the more happy about Enhedslisten, and this area is also included in a number of different agreements that have actually succeeded in putting so many extra millions of people in the VEU billion and even so focused on the unskilled being able to go to the skilled, i.e. the unskilled area, and to the unemployed via the employment part. And we can see that it actually has a positive impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144600	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for a brief comment. No, she's giving up. Then we thank the Minister for Education and go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Peter Juel Jensen, speaking for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144627	Thank you, President. There is not much to add beyond what the Minister has already explained. In the Left, we are reasonably in agreement with the intention, but we stand by our recovery package. After all, the history of the recovery package is that some funds had to be found because we were hit by an international financial crisis, so we were forced to just put things at a standstill so that the Danish economy did not run beyond the edge. Of course, we stand by that. Now the Left was, and is, involved in some of the measures outlined by the Minister a moment ago, and that is of course also something that helps in the continuing training of our workforce. But I would also like to say that, when you spend money, you must of course also indicate where you can find them, and so has Enhedslisten. They must be found in the consulting account; the private consultants that the State uses when it is needed. But isn't that money already spent one, two and three times? I think I have come across the same funding in other proposals and have even heard Open Consultation Enhedslisten spend the same money. Therefore, I also find it difficult to go in and say that this is a very good idea, because the funding is quite simply not; the money has been spent several times.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144756	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Anne Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526144805	Thank you. Enhedslisten writes in the comments on this proposal: "As a society, we need to train and train the Danish labour force so that employees are equipped for the tasks ahead. At the same time, we should provide unskilled workers with training to increase their working conditions and living conditions. It couldn't have been written more precisely if I should have done it myself. There we have a very clear common cause, and I really think that the Minister's speech has already shown that the ambition to train both for our companies, but also very much for the sake of the individual Danes, both for their ability to get jobs and for their ability to create the life they want in general, is something we share. Mrs. Rosa Lund asked earlier: does economics matter? Yeah, of course it does. That's why we in the Social Democratic Party opposed it in 2010 when this refund was reduced from 100 to 80%, but there are other things that matter too. I believe that access to training has a very great effect, and one of the things that was done at the same time was to restrict access, for example. By capping 6 weeks of self-chosen training, e.g. by increasing user charges, etc. These barriers, I think, have been even more concerned with the activity and the disastrous situation that has really occurred, where so few people have taken an education at a time when we really needed it. I also believe that the length of education means something, and that is why I am so pleased that we have succeeded in making the way to education shorter during the last parliamentary term, because, among other things, with our vocational training reform we have been able to do so. becoming better at realskill assessment, getting better at giving credit, getting better at ensuring that everything people have in the account counts so that the way to a delivery letter becomes as short as possible. We have also done more to give unemployed unskilled people easier access to training while they are on unemployment benefits. We've put down the user fee. We have strengthened AMU and in general made it more flexible. We have strengthened the adult apprentice scheme. There are a large number of initiatives which I believe to some extent have been a barrier to how much activity we have seen in this area. This together provides a good framework. It doesn't change the fact that if I had been a member of parliament back in 2010, I would have voted no. I had that with my eyes open, and I said it very openly at the time. But overall, we are still away today in a better place with a better framework and an increasing activity, and I think we can enjoy that. Apart from the fact that the Socialists cannot support the proposal, I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they cannot either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145120	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145123	Thank you. I am a trained history teacher, so I am very concerned that history must be correct and proper, etc., because there may be some people sitting here studying this in 10, 20, 30 or 50 years and thinking it might be exciting. Does the rapporteur for the Socialist Group not recognise that the recovery package came at the right time and place when it came in 2010?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145149	Not at all. I think it is also a completely erroneous term to call it a recovery package at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145154	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145156	The government has rolled back some of the things that were in the recovery package, but you've skipped this. Does the rapporteur not think that when the Minister stands up and says that this was not just with the Minister's good will, it is basically an indication that, if you had a real intention to change this, you would have been able to find the money and get it back to the 100 per cent?? So isn't it just a game for the gallery and such a little pick-up when you haven't returned this? It has simply not been important enough for the government and hence for the social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145231	Well, now I have a great deal of respect for what is going on at a negotiating table. But now, Mr. Left... Peter Juel Jensen himself is actively asking about exactly the negotiating table where this was going to turn, I would say that both the questioner and I know very well how the mood was around that table exactly on this particular proposal. As I said in my speech, I am in favour of making it as attractive as possible to take an education especially for our unemployed, especially for our unskilled. That is why I was also opposed to the recovery package and the things that were contained in it. The agreements we have made have made it easier and easier and more attractive and more accessible to take an education for these groups. I think we should be proud of that. That this part wasn't one of the things we succeeded in getting, we're gonna have to live with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145322	Mrs Rosa Lund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145325	Thank you for that, and thank you for that fine speech. My question is slightly different from Mr. Peter Juel Jensens, because I understand from Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen that if she had been a member of parliament in 2010, she would have voted against the recovery package. Now Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen is a member of parliament now, and we have put forward this proposal in the Enhedslisten to remove that deterioration, and I would just like to hear: why is it that the Socialists do not want to do so? As far as funding is concerned, we have made a proposal. We would like to discuss whether the money can be found elsewhere. In fact, we just think, like Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, that it is a little important to make it clear that this recovery package did not restore anything at all, and that is why we want to remove the deterioration that was in it. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145421	I fully acknowledge that, and I also thought that in my speech I tried to give the impression that we agree on where we want to go. We would like to have more adult Danes taking an education, especially if we can move people from unskilled to skilled status, it is very good. Yes, I would have voted against in 2010. I stood down in the palace square and demonstrated against those who were members of parliament at the time, and I still think so. But politics is also one long round of negotiations and compromises, and some of the things that have been laid down in some of the agreements, among others. Have entered across the political divides over the last four years, are some of these things. You could say that about what you want. After all, I choose to bear in mind that together we have made the framework significantly better than they were when we took over that activity is increasing and that we see that more people are getting an education today. I'm really glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145518	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145520	I am also pleased that we have changed a great many things in our continuing training system and created a better framework. I just think we need this tiny corner, and I just want to know if the Social Democrats do not recognise that it is a problem when both the trade union movement and, as such, the AMU centres and the vocational schools • all the people who work with our continuing training system on a daily basis • point out that this is a problem. So, if we cannot agree on this particular proposal, could Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen imagine that at a later stage we agreed on a proposal that had been screwed up differently but that would mean that the VEU allowance came back to the level it was before 2010?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145613	I will certainly not deny that. All policy measures that make us closer, that our workforce has the qualifications to do, so that we get our unemployed into work, and so that we ensure that our companies have the hands they need without having to pick them up from all sorts of places other than Denmark, I would always like to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145635	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145648	It's not easy being in government. We agree with the proposal, but we are voting against it. With this resolution, the Enhedslisten raises an important debate on continuing training, and we in the Danish People's Party would like to thank you for that. Unfortunately, however, the proposal is somewhat flawed, because it is all about increasing the VEU allowance from 80 to 100 per cent. I would like to go into this in more detail. We're spending just under 5 billion. kr. The majority of these funds are aimed at shorter labour market training courses in order to carry out tasks for enterprises at present. This means that very few unskilled people are trained to be skilled. In 2012, only 47 became skilled. The think tank DEA has recently published an analysis on this and it points out that, according to the AE Council, by 2020 we will wave goodbye to 210,000 unskilled jobs and that the need for skilled and trained labour will increase by 300,000. It is therefore not enough to increase the VEU allowance. It must be targeted where the need is. We therefore need to improve training for our unskilled workers, and this does not solve the resolution. The Danish People's Party will therefore urge that we come together in the committee on a report which proposes a targeted approach to unskilled workers, while raising the VEU allowance for this group. In this way we will get more unskilled people to become skilled, which will be needed in the future. Then we will also come to the funding. The Enhedslisten has in a subsequent annex found the money by saving on the state's external consultants. Perhaps it would have been better if we had also pointed out what external consultants and what ministries were in mind. The Danish People's Party therefore hopes to be able to improve the motion for a resolution and that we, together with the parties, can come together on a report which requires the government to make it more attractive to move from unskilled to skilled. There is perspective on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145907	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526145916	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for having this very important debate today. What is completely evident is that Denmark is a knowledge-based society and that it is increasingly almost impossible to become part of the labour market and retain its place in the labour market if you do not have some form of education or training. The number of unskilled jobs offered in Denmark is decreasing, and the requirements for the skills you need to be on the labour market are becoming increasingly complex. There are new numbers that show 18 per cent. of the Danes today do not receive a qualifying education. And as things stand now, the figure does not appear to be decreasing. That development must be stopped, otherwise we will end up with a labour market that cannot be satisfied with Danish and qualified labour. That is why it is important that we continue to give priority to young people in particular, but also those who have been on the labour market for a long time, to receive training and further training. Unskilled workers must be given the opportunity to train skilled workers, and skilled workers must be given the opportunity to upgrade their skills. With the reform of vocational training, which takes effect after the summer break, we have taken a major step forward. But that is why it is also important that we have the discussion today that is not enough. We must work to ensure that the VEU system gets more. It was crucial for the SF in its time in the context of the growth negotiations that we got 1 billion. kr. to the VEU system. And of course it is also to see that it gives an effect. One of the barriers to adult and continuing training is precisely the economy. The amount of aid available in education is only 80%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. In Denmark, we have a long, strong tradition of lifelong learning, and that is also one of what the SF says helps to combat inequality. I myself have experienced this very closely in connection with the upgrading of all the employees who became unemployed after Lindøværften closed. There was not only one way to go here, but the fact that one was given the opportunity to get either a course or the school knowledge one had not had, or to go from being a welder to becoming a social and health assistant, was a huge gain. With this experience, we would like to take a positive view of the Enhedslisten's proposal to increase support to 100%. of the highest daily allowance rate, just as it was before the VK government reduced the aid to the level we know today. Having said that, we would also very much like to join with the Enhedslisten and hopefully also the other parties that we are going through the economy and trying to look at how we can build a construction so that this training will benefit as many people as possible and is funded. However, from our side there is a great call to go to the budget negotiations with the proposal and to bring together as broad a circle as possible of the parties of the Folketing, because this is an important matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526150254	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526150304	When we get a new blue government soon or a little later, the field of continuing training is one of the things that I very much hope we will look at in depth. We need a flexible continuing training market in Denmark, not only for the sake of society and for the sake of companies, but certainly also for the sake of the individual Dane. Throughout a long working life, we need to optimise and improve our qualifications, but also sometimes completely change horses. The labour market is changing rapidly, the opportunities are changing rapidly, and if as many Danes as possible are to be self-supporting, we need a flexible and diverse continuing training market. It is also important that we talk about the fact that there is a market governed by supply and demand, otherwise it will be rigid, irrelevant and the money will be used incorrectly. We need many private providers and we need more influence for the individual. Anyone who needs continuing training must also regard it as a personal investment in the future and have a legitimate expectation that it may yield a return at a later stage. In relation to the very specific proposal, B 116, made by the Enhedslisten, we in the Liberal Alliance cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526150437	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526150447	With this resolution, the Enhedslisten wishes to increase the VEU allowance to 100%. of the highest daily allowance rate. This is an important issue and we all want unskilled people to be qualified. Fortunately, a number of things already do, and so do they, after the compensation in 2010 was reduced to 80%. for employers. It is then surprising that the proposal comes only now, that the Enhedslisten, with its crucial mandates as a parliamentary basis for the government, has not long since asked the government to give priority to this area. This could have been appropriate in the negotiations on financial law, so that funding would also have been in place, because, as several others have said, it is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges with this resolution. We cannot support funding proposed by a general saving on the use of consultants by the State. We do not know who and what area it is, and therefore among other things. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526150552	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526150615	Thank you, and thank you for a good debate. I think it is very reassuring that continuing training is something that concerns us all. Then I can stand here and perhaps just look forward to the fact that at some point there will also be action behind the words. We have tabled this resolution in the Enhedslisten because we want to create better conditions for the continuing training of Danish employees. With the so-called recovery package in 2010, the VEU allowance was reduced from 100%. of the highest daily allowance rate at 80%. Subsequently, we saw a drastic drop in the number of employees undergoing continuing training. Just from 2010 to 2011, the number of 3Fs in continuing training jobs decreased by 241⁄2%. Since then, the number of people in continuing training has continued to dive, and the number of AMU students has almost halved from 2010 to 2014. As a society, we need to train and train the Danish labour force. We can all agree that it is important for employees to be equipped for the tasks ahead, just as we can also agree that it is good to provide unskilled people with training. Forecasts from the Workers' Industry Council indicate that by 2020 the need for skilled labour will increase by nearly 300,000 people, and we have heard the government's top ministers say today that we are now putting behind us the crisis that is behind Denmark now. If the developments which are currently in the field of continuing training continue, we will be missing thousands of skilled and trained people in the labour market, so I think that I think just on a day like today, when we are told that we are now putting the crisis behind us, it is very relevant to discuss how we will then ensure that we are prepared for the recovery that should come. From unskilled to skilled workers from 2015, published by the Danish Evaluation Institute, it is clear that economics is the biggest barrier for unskilled workers who would like to become skilled, and it points out to us in the Enhedslisten that there is a need to do something in this area, and that is precisely why we want to raise the VEU allowance equivalent to 100 per cent. of the highest daily allowance rate. Having said that, I would like to thank you for the positive statements to make a joint report. I could also think of many other things that would be very good to put into a proposal on continuing training. When we in the Enhedslisten have chosen to focus on the allowance, it is because it is our clear view that it is a barrier for both unskilled and skilled workers to take up further training that it has deteriorated. I would just like to thank you for the debate and say that we in the Enhedslist are very much looking forward to the forthcoming committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526150923	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526150940	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526150959	Thank you for the floor for the debate on this motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten. I would say that, contrary to what has been said in the past about adult and continuing training, I am not really a little too sorry about the intention to get as many places as possible internships for young people; it is an extremely important and bottom-up agenda that we have, with the good alternance training system we have for vocational training, but when I think it is a pity, it is because the Enhedslisten states that there should be a shortage of 12.936 internships, and that is not correct. That's what I think is a little too bad, and it's also something I've discussed with Enhedslisten before, because the figures are actually such that if we look at the latest internship statistics, it shows that over 79,500 students were in their main course in March 2015, of which 9 percent were. in school practice at an internship centre, which corresponds to 7,240 pupils. It is, of course, the case that school internships should preferably take part in internships sooner or later. Fortunately, a lot of people do this even if they start school practice, they get into internship afterwards. In addition to the students in the internships there were 1,459 students with a completed basic course enrolled as internships in courses where there are school internships but they then chose not to take, but they could continue in school practice and thus complete their education. This means that there are 200 pupils who were enrolled as applicants for non-school training. When I think it is a pity, it is because the figure is not correct and it gives a misleading picture to young people who want to choose a vocational training course, you might think it was almost impossible to find an internship. However, there are a great many good opportunities to get an internship, and the new vocational training reform that comes into force will improve with the improved internship centres, the possibilities for making internship packages and, as I said, the possibility for the vast majority of people to start school practice and with very good opportunities to get out afterwards. I know that the Enhedslisten sometimes takes the view that it is not as good to take a school internship, but I would also like to warn against talking down school practices here. It is again not the same as the fact that it is not important to do all you can to get ordinary internships out in companies, but it is actually also some good practical paths that you get, again with the new internships, and a really nice ticket to get an internship in a company afterwards. Just to mention one thing, on 12 May I attended the very traditional festival at Copenhagen City Hall, where the most talented young craftsmen from the various subjects that have received medals come and they get grants, and they get royal handshakes. And it's the best young craftsmen who get medals. They left, among other things. to cabinetmakers and tailors who are young men and women who are trained in school practice and yet provide excellent craftsmanship. I would like to stress, just in order that there are no myths, that, of course, the very best thing would be if everyone could get into an ordinary internship, but I do not think there is any reason to talk the school tactics down, because there is also plenty of quality in it, you can also become a good craftsman there. The Enhedslisten proposes some specific points that I would like to comment on. The first is to introduce binding social clauses into municipalities, regions and states. The social clause is also something we are concerned with in the government, which is why the government has also instructed government entities to apply what is called a follow-up or explaining principle of social clauses on internships back from February 2013. Regional and municipal contracting entities, following an agreement with KL and Danske Regioner, have also been included in the principle from the beginning of 2014. Following or explaining the principle means that contracting entities must either use social clauses or explain publicly why they do not. When we have not chosen to oblige public entities to always make use of social clauses, as I have to understand Enhedslisten's proposal, this is because it would be contrary to what is called the principle of proportionality of EU law. For it must always be a concrete assessment whether an internship requirement is proportional in the individual tender. However, I would like to stress here that we are actually concerned that the public is using social clauses. This is a very good way, there is a good deal in it, by saying that there is a task to be carried out here, and a private company gets a good order and thus also gets the opportunity to be able to employ some more employees, including creating, for example, a new company. some more apprenticeships. So we fully agree with the whole idea of social clauses, but, as I said, they must comply with the principle of proportionality of EU law. We also follow it continuously in the government by requiring all ministries to report their application of social clauses to the Ministry of Business and Growth. It is the case that municipal and regional contracting entities are not subject to reporting to the Ministry of Business and Growth, and therefore they are not included in the inventory, but KL and Danske Regions have informed the Ministry of Business and Growth that they will also take stock of the application of the principle. The Enhedslisten also proposes to renegotiate the Employers' Educational Contribution so that companies that do not take pupils contribute more than the companies that take pupils. Now it is already the case that the companies employing pupils contribute relatively less to the AUB than companies that do not hire pupils, partly because the companies do not have to pay contributions for the pupils, partly because the companies receive benefits from the AUB, and in this way they receive it from contributions from all companies. As Enhedslisten also knows, a broad agreement has been reached on vocational training with all parties in the Danish Parliament, unfortunately without Enhedslisten, although we were very close to reaching a common agreement, and I would like to sign for that because I know that Enhedslisten is deeply concerned about these issues, as we are also. It is part of the agreement that the AUB contribution has been fixed until 2018, and as a starting point it will require consensus in the circle if the AUB contribution is to be renegotiated. The proposal from the Enhedslisten that the state and municipalities should create the missing internships, I think, is unrealistic, among other things. because the public authorities are unable to train very many of the employees needed by the private production sector. State, municipalities and regions must certainly take on their share of the training task. I would like to emphasise this point. But of course it must also be the case that this can be done in relation to the range of internships that are needed, and there is just a barrier to the types of training positions that will be in the public sector. Last but not least, I would like to stress that we must achieve this as far as possible. Now that growth is in progress, it should also be the case that more training agreements are coming in. I also think that one of the things that is shameful about looking at internship statistics is that the number of training agreements is decreasing. That is also why I am currently having discussions with the social partners on what we can do to create more ordinary work placements. It must be so that it can be done as the economic situation now stands. As I have said, we have regular meetings on this in the Ministry, and I expect the working group to be able to make proposals before the summer break to discuss how we can strengthen the fact that there will be even more ordinary work placements. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that, among other things, we are dealing with a number of issues. I do not remember the saying, and I do not want to say the wrong thing about all their member companies and simply business with what they call Operation Traineeships, have contacted them, and it is then more than 1,000 member companies to see if they cannot set up some more apprenticeships now that growth is getting off to a good start, because they are also preoccupied with the fact that something is going to happen now. Now is the time for a new vocational training reform. Now is the time for as many internships as possible. Now is the time for young people and their parents to have the hope and the belief that it is a very good way of training and, above all, that companies will simply lack skilled employees if they do not enter that training task now. The government cannot support the resolution, but we can easily understand the intentions of it. However, I would now like to appeal to the House not to talk about the lack of internships together. So it is not 12 000 young people who need an internship.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526151815	Mrs Rosa Lund, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526151822	Now we have not tabled this resolution to discuss figures, but it is clear that I cannot help asking a little about it anyway, because the minister focused so much on it. I would like to ask the Minister: when you are in school practice, do you need an internship? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526151840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526151843	When you are in school practice, you are still away internship in relation to finding an ordinary internship. If you do not get it and you have a school internship, you can also finish it in school practice, but the interesting thing is that far So it is extremely good that we have the buffer with good internship centres, which has become even better as part of the internship agreement that was made, so that, even if the business cycle goes up and down, you actually have an opportunity to complete your education. That is, of course, the prerequisite for the alternance training system we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526151915	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526151918	Now I did not ask about the possibilities of completing my education. Well, Enhedslisten is part of the agreement on the internship centres, so we know that very well. I ask the Minister if, when you are in school practice, you lack an internship. Yes or no. I'm not asking if you can finish your education. I understand that this government has stopped talking about an internship guarantee and has started talking about an education guarantee instead. That is, of course, very wise of the government, because you can finish your education in school practice, but it is just not the same. There is a very large difference for the individual between being in school practice and being in ordinary internship. That is why I just want to ask the Minister: do you need an internship when you are in school practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152006	I simply disagree completely with the fact that we have not talked about training guarantees before. We've been doing that for a long time. And we have an alternance training because we know it is cyclical and that is why we need to have the possibility of a good school placement. When you are in school practice, you must always be active in finding an ordinary internship. If you can't get it, you can finish your education there. And you're a really skilled professional also with school practice, but that doesn't change that the very best thing is that you're in a company with the very concrete learning that's in being with colleagues in the job functions that are there. But talking school practice down, I don't think there's any reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152037	Thank you, Minister. And then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Peter Juel Jensen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152047	Thank you, President. It's a little hard to come after a minister who's so much in a jumpla. After all, the Minister reached a sharp corner last Friday, and that may be why the Minister has become so reasonable to listen to. I do not have much to add from the left. I would, however, like to say that I very much agree with the Minister that we must be careful what figures we send up when it comes to the queue for vocational training in terms of internships. It is incredibly important that we get the necessary number of professionals in the future too, for the well-being of all of us. I am a parent myself and have children who are about to choose youth education. If I were a parent and heard the figure that Enhedslisten is touring around with, perhaps I would be a little cautious in recommending my children to take a vocational training course. I propose that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten should look up the Ministry of Education's website and then get hold of the very specific number of pupils who need an internship. We've actually gotten really, really far. Furthermore, I would also like to say that the Left cannot and will not help to make it harder for young people to have an internship in the future either. In fact, what Enhedslisten is proposing with this resolution is basically burying the so-called partnership agreements. A partnership agreement is voluntary cooperation between, for example. Danish Construction, Youth Education Guidelines, vocational schools and a municipality, both the school administration and the job centre, and in some places also the local 3F department. The municipality is responsible for the municipality's young people entering a training course and later into work. The UU, i.e. the Youth Training Guide, is responsible for preparing young people for a qualified choice of education, and the vocational schools receive the pupils from the municipality and train them for the labour market, while the companies eventually take the pupils as apprentices and later as apprentices. This is what we are going to put down if we follow the Enhedslisten's proposal to introduce compulsory clauses, because we cannot have both voluntary agreements and compulsory clauses. And these agreements are quite unique because they apply to both the public and private labour markets. So the Left will not be involved in anything that will ultimately help to remove internships for young people who choose to take vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152317	A brief remark from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152320	Thank you. I'll start by reassuring Mr. Knox. Peter Juel Jensen says that the figures mentioned here in our motion for a resolution come from the homepage of the Ministry of Education; they come from the official figures, one might say. We just feel that when you are in school practice, you also lack an internship because you are in a school internship centre; you are not out with a company; you do not work under the agreement; you get a different salary; you do not have the same rights, etc. etc. So I can just start by reassuring the rapporteur of the Left with that. And that was the first thing. The second thing is: if the Left does not want to be involved in this, how will the Left help to provide the internships that are lacking? If, therefore, the Left believes that there are no internships at all? 'Cause I can understand it. Peter Juel Jensen that we should not be allowed to talk about the internships that are missing; that we should only talk about the internships that are there. Is that how I should understand the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152421	Well, the Left has gone seriously to the task all the way through, and we are among other things. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of vocational training in the context of a vocational training reform which makes vocational training considerably more attractive. In our draft budget, we have set aside money for new equipment for vocational schools, precisely in order to improve training. And, of course, we support all the places we can now because we are well aware that our common welfare depends incredibly much on the fact that we also have production jobs in Denmark in the future. That is why it is also necessary for us to have the workforce that is now being demanded, even in the future. And that's why we hit it every time we hear some touring around with some wrong numbers and build up some scare pictures just because we're approaching an election campaign. We in the Left believe that our welfare society is far too important for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152504	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152506	Now, sir. Peter Juel Jensen knows that we in the Enhedslisten, ever since the school show was invented, have thought that it was a patchy solution, and have thought that those who were in school practice lacked an internship. So this is not something we have invented for this occasion that we are facing now. I asked the rapporteur about internships and not about machines or how to make vocational training more attractive, but specifically about how the Left will provide internships.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152540	Well, in the Left we are very fond of the alternance training system that we have at the moment, but it is of course also short-term. When things go a little slower in the international economy and when things slow down in the Danish economy, it is of course difficult to obtain the necessary number of internships. That's why we have the school show that can take the steam off the internship queue. I am very, very sorry to hear the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten talk so black about going into school practice, because the truth is also that the rapporteur must also know that the vast majority of people who start school practice actually end up in an ordinary internship. So it helps to ensure that when you start vocational training, you also have the opportunity to complete your education. Everything else would be black and would not help that more young people chose vocational training in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152633	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, with more. The rapporteur is pregnant
ParlaMint-DK_20150526152649	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that, like the Minister, I do not agree with the figure, but regardless of how you turn it around, there should be no problem at all in standing here and discussing it today. If companies were to shoulder the responsibilities that lie with them properly, if they took the responsibility that our growth education system gives them, there should be no problem at all. It provokes me when I see companies as late as today complaining that they cannot get qualified labour, that they can get enough hands, but at the same time they have no apprentices and they are not looking for them either. This is not the way we come closer to having a skilled workforce that delivers it to companies that our companies need. There are several companies that have to get into the fight, and it is our big companies in particular, all the studies show. Where small businesses are doing well, there are several of the big ones who could come on board, and I am also pleased that the social partners are so actively in discussions with the Ministry at the moment, and that the Minister has taken the initiative so that more companies can shoulder their share of the responsibility. In addition to the many discussions that are under way and which result in recommendations just now, I agree that the public sector must take the responsibility that the public sector must have. I do not agree with the proposal that everything should be picked up, I think that is unrealistic and inappropriate, but in the SOSU area, for example, I am very much in favour of our having a dimension, I am very much in favour of the municipalities and regions being obliged to say: this is what we need and, of course, it is also the places of study that need to be set up. In addition, it is good that we have internships, which may be the buffer that means that our young people in the gaps between internships in real companies are not forced to drop out, as has been seen in the past, that they are not forced to start again on a new basic course, but that they can be caught in those gaps that should be. There are virtually no pupils taking their entire education in an internship centre. I think we should be pleased about this, because it is, after all, preferable that as many of our young people as possible should come out and get real soil under our fingernails. In addition to discussions with the social partners, dimensioning those areas that now make sense to the public, and our internship centres, which can provide the training guarantee that we are all so committed to providing, so that more people have the courage to go this way, there are also the clauses. And that is one of the cornerstones of Enhedslisten's proposals today. I just want to say: yes, I am in favour of clauses, yes, I am in favour of the fact that when we build for our common tax dollars, we are obliged, to the extent that it makes sense, to take part of the educational responsibility that lies. I am proud, for example, that this is the case. will be reported that the upcoming Fehmarn building appears to have 500 full-time student and apprenticeship places. I think that is strong and I think it is something we should learn from. It is certainly significantly better than any of the things we have seen on some of the other major infrastructure projects, nobody mentioned, nobody forgotten. Together we have introduced that system. I think we can be proud of that. We have also committed municipalities and regions to doing the same unless they can argue very well why they should not do so. Is that like saying a hundred percent commitment? No, but it forces everyone to relate to it, and I think that is a real step, and I am pleased about that. On the basis of this whole series of measures, we cannot support the proposal, nor can the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153052	Mrs Rosa Lund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153056	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we agree very much with what Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen says about companies taking responsibility, and I am also provoked when companies say that they are going to lack labour when they are not themselves involved in training them today. I would like to ask Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen about what she said about SOSU education: do the Socialists believe that there should continue to be a dimensioning and will we be working towards that in the agreement to be made with the municipalities and regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153135	Then we thank the Socialist rapporteur and go straight to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153145	The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution on internships has good intentions, but like the previous proposal, B 116, it has some shortcomings, and we in the Danish People's Party will address them well. Indeed, there is no funding behind it and the figures do not hold up. The proposal shows that almost 13 000 places of work are missing, and they must be provided by the State, the regions and the municipalities by means of social clauses. This figure is too high. The latest figures are from March 2015 and show that 4,900 of the students who completed the basic course lack internship. In fact, I very much agree with the Minister that we need to talk internships, we need to talk vocational training up, we should not talk it down. And this figure is also from the Ministry of Education's website. The Danish People's Party supports social clauses, but it does not solve the entire internship problem. This is due to the fact that the public sector is worse at creating internships than the private sector, and therefore social clauses will not remedy that. I will go into this in more detail if the Social Democratic Party was somewhat harsh on the private companies just now. An analysis of the potential for several internships in companies, which Deloitte did for the Ministry of Education, the Danish Employers' Association and the LO as part of the implementation of the growth package 2014, showed that Danish companies can create 33,700 more internships. Of these, potential was greatest in trade and transport. 40% Or 13,000 could be found here. The analysis also showed that the potential is greatest in the capital with 12,000 and in Southern Denmark with almost 8,000. In addition, there is a great difference between the activities of vocational schools. For some, they succeed in getting 90%. of the students in internship, while others are as low as 20%. And now we come to the schism between public and private. In the public sector, only 4 pupils per year are employed. 100 employees, even if you could hire 70%. more, while in the private sector there are on average 9 pupils per year. 100 employees, mostly in construction and construction with 16 pupils per year. 100 employees. In other words, the private sector is far better than the public sector to hire pupils. In addition, the internship shortage is spread over many different occupations. However, it makes good sense for the public to employ more pupils when the potential is 70 per cent. According to Deloitte's analysis, we would have been able to support this part of the proposal if Enhedslisten had provided funding. Unfortunately, the motion for a resolution is not funded, and we therefore consider it to be a draft for debate rather than a real proposal to improve the shortage of internship. We look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153453	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153456	Thank you. After all, the motion for a resolution has been financed. After all, we are proposing to renegotiate the employers' training contributions. In other words, we propose that employers pay their share of the bill. We think it's their turn. So I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: whose responsibility is the creation of internships? Who will pay for it according to the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153522	I'm a little confused. According to the motion for a resolution, employers' training contributions will be reduced if they have pupils. At the same time, if you don't have students, you have to pay more. However, it is not really clear whether it is within the overall pool or whether the companies have to pay something more. I simply do not have an answer to that. Who pays for the students when they are employed in a company? After all, it is companies that pay their wages and the level of wages is fixed in the collective bargaining process.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153600	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153602	But whose responsibility is that? So, to me, this is the question in this debate on employers' training contributions and in the debate on social clauses. I agree that this cannot be the whole solution. That is also why there are various proposals in our resolution. What I am interested in is: Whose responsibility is it according to the Danish People's Party? Do we have a responsibility in here at Christiansborg? Is it the responsibility of the employers, is it the responsibility of the pupils? Whose responsibility is it according to the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153638	At Christiansborg we also have a responsibility, we have a responsibility in the municipalities. I myself have helped to vote in favour of social clauses in Odense City Council, because this is a good way to get more student places out of private companies. The public sector also has a greater responsibility. They take too few. They could hire 70%. More if they wanted to. We also have a responsibility to Christiansborg. As I said, we are in favour of social clauses, but the resolution is not financed, as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153707	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we go to the Socialist People's Party rapporteur, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526153716	For motion for a resolution B 125, too, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Enhedslisten for discussing the matter at this stage. It is, of course, a discussion which is quite important to all of us who sit here in the Folketing. What is quite clear is that in these years we are facing a very big problem. It is when so many thousands of young people are without an internship. Vocational training is experiencing far too great apostasy, and many young people simply give up going to vocational school with the prospect of not being able to find an internship. In January Deloitte announced that throughout Denmark there is actually a potential of 33.700 internships, and this must be exploited. I would also ask that attention be paid to the fact that in the last report from the Ministry of Education that the number of internship agreements has increased, it should be noted that there is a difference between whether it is a CPR number that now has a full training agreement or whether the number is increasing due to very many short placement agreements. It gives a few different pictures. So yes, many agreements have been made, but it does not necessarily say how many more young people will get a full training agreement. You can't leave the kids behind. In addition, in a few years' time, if we do not create more internships, the economy will also be lacking. Here I have the opportunity to say: Danish Industry and Danish Business, where have you been, where have you taken your responsibility? It is quite okay now to stand and call for all the lessons you could use, but this is only solved by taking joint responsibility. What we can see is that it is small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also very much the companies located in Outer Denmark that go in and take responsibility for creating training places while the large companies are absent. I very rarely see that there are advertisements in Sunday newspapers etc., where apprentices and people are sought for internships. The financial crisis we can agree on has been partly blamed for the unwillingness to take young people into practical training, but the future's economic prospects look brighter if we are to believe the government and the wise men. If companies do not act now, Denmark will lose competitiveness, knowledge and experience from young people who are going to take up construction, health care, retailing, etc. It is not only private companies that have a responsibility to offer internships. State, regions and municipalities must also contribute much more to the provision of practical places. I would like to see the trialogue negotiations restarted and education again being one of the priorities. A good example is that at Odense Harbour on the old Lindø you are now working again to design and set up an apprenticeship school. When Lindø was there, there were 140 apprentices. Today we are again trying to set up an apprenticeship school. There are now 145 companies which, together, will be able to establish a basis together with vocational training to create a training opportunity close to the profession for which they are to be trained. So the school show is bad? Actually, I don't think it is. From the SF's point of view, we can also see that precisely the school approach can cover the need for some of the courses, such as: works with highly specialised interventions and highly specialised techniques in some of the craft trades. But I don't want it to be a sleeping pillow. So the school show is just not really an internship. It can only be an alternative and a supplement. Business practices provide the best experience, whether private or public. It offers better opportunities for training and, in addition, the remuneration for school practices is worse than for business practices. So we're on the SF's side preoccupied with this agenda. Regarding the Enhedslisten's proposal here, it is unclear how the funding should be secured. As Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen mentioned, there is a very good example in Odense Municipality that you can see. It has now spread to the whole of Funen. All the municipalities of Funen now agree that working clauses are a condition when you go in and offer tasks, and that has meant, we know from contractors and others, that now you know what conditions you offer when you offer a job. In fact, this means that many more young people now have a real internship. This is an example of the fact that municipalities, together with educational institutions and companies, are going in and undertaking a very large and important task. I would really like to hope that Enhedslisten will be able to take the proposal back to committee so that we can combine a model for the benefit of businesses and, above all, for the benefit of young people, because we need them to receive good training.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154309	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154318	The fact that we have well-functioning internships in Denmark is crucial to the principle of alternance training, which we have had in Denmark for many years, and which has been very good at ensuring well-trained labour. This is a principle that we share with other countries, among others. Switzerland and Germany, which means working to have an interaction between practice and theory. In Denmark, however, we are dragging more and more young people into the school bench when it comes to practical education. It is a wrong way to go because it does not equip young people enough for European competition, which is in the labour market they will be able to reach when they finish their education. As regards the availability of internships, there are different factors in relation to the number and quality of internships. First of all, growth is essential. When order books are empty or thin, internship is not the first thing companies think about. This is why growth is essential for many internships. Secondly, it is also crucial that it is attractive to be an internship. It must not be too difficult, there must not be too many obstacles and too much trouble; nor must it be too expensive, and if we look at the comparison made by the think tank DEA, we can see that it shows that it is about twice as expensive for companies in Denmark to set up an internship as it is in the countries with which we compare ourselves, which have similar courses. With regard to bureaucracy and hassle, politicians can do something about it, but when it comes to this balance between expenditure and the quality that young people have the opportunity to make, it is also the social partners that have a responsibility here. An internship agreement must be a proper agreement both for the learner and for the company to be really beneficial. That is why the quality of training must also be in order both for the sake of young people and for the sake of the company, and in order for quality to be at its top, we must bring companies more into the future, as they have been in the past. The companies that take young people must have more responsibility for training and more influence. Young people must have better motivation, because if they are to get a lot out of education, they must also go into it with a high degree of motivation and awareness that taking an education is a privilege and that it is also something for which they should take responsibility. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance are proposing to abolish what is known as the training order, which is such a strange arrangement, in which we are actually trying to force some young people to take an education and thus put an end to the fact that education is a privilege for which the individual must take responsibility. The training schedule also means that the level can be reduced around vocational training because young people enter training courses that do not want to be there at all and do not know what they are going to do there. All in all, therefore, coercion is a really bad tool when we talk about education and, incidentally, many other things. Forced is not a good tool for either young people or companies. A company is not going to be a good place of training by getting its arm twisted around its back and being told: Now you have to train some young people. You can easily have some young people walking without really giving them a good education. Forced is a really bad tool and we cannot, of course, support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154721	There are a few brief comments. It's from Mrs. Rosa Lund first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154725	Thank you. I have one question for Mrs Merete Riisager, because it was the case that the last time there was growth in Denmark, the last time there was growth in the wheels where the order books were full, there was also a lack of internships. This means that growth is not equal to more internships. Now the order books are so empty, and there is also a lack of internships now. Let us now say that we are getting this recovery and that growth is getting under way, what will the Liberal Alliance do to ensure that internships are actually created? Learned from history, we can see that they do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154807	After all, I mentioned various factors in my speech, of which growth is one of them, and it is quite evident that growth is one of the factors determining the number of placements offered. But of course there are others too, and one of them is that it must be easily accessible to create an internship, and of course also that the young people who come out are motivated and skilled, and then there must also be a link between the training courses and the young people. So growth is clearly a crucial factor, but not the only one.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154839	Rosa Lund? No, sir. Peter Juel Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154843	Thank you. I think the rapporteur came around very well and that is to say that the rapporteur is well aware of things, and that is always nice, but I should just like to hear whether the rapporteur does not find it a little strange that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, on the one hand, is standing up and reproaching that there are not enough internships, because the Enhedslisten, on the other hand, has helped to remove the housing job scheme, which has thrown out practical places.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154910	When I make a speech from Parliament's platform, I see it as my task to present the views of the Liberal Alliance. If there are some of the rapporteurs in the Chamber who would like to say something to each other, I would urge them to do so when each of them stands on the platform and can ask each other. By the way, the Liberal Alliance is not in favour of the housing job scheme, since it is such a thing where you take something with one hand and give something with the other. We prefer that the Danes can keep some more of their own money and get some more freedom, create some more jobs and benefit themselves from the benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154945	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526154948	It was a long way to go without an answer. I asked, of course, whether the rapporteur did not find it amazing that, on the one hand, people are criticizing the lack of training places while, on the other hand, they are going in and removing a scheme which actually created more than 400 places of work. Isn't these internships that we could all enjoy very much today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155007	As I have said, the Liberal Alliance sees Denmark as a country that has enormously many different state and municipal subsidies. Each of them costs a great deal in red tape and redistribution. We believe that what this country needs is for the Danes to have the opportunity to take matters more into their own hands; that each of us can simply do what we are passionate about, earn our own money and create some more opportunities for others too. We do not believe that there is necessarily a need for more state intervention and support schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155048	Questions are allowed to lead. We move on to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr President. Daniel Rugholm, and thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155102	Thank you. With this resolution, the Enhedslisten wishes to impose on the government the provision of 12.936 work placements by imposing binding social clauses in municipalities, regions and states, by renegotiating employers' training contributions, and by the creation by the State and municipalities of the lack of work placements within their territory. We in the Conservative People's Party cannot support that. In my own municipality I have had the pleasure of participating in a voluntary partnership agreement with Dansk Byggeri, a fantastic agreement that has also had a very good effect, and this is a positive one, and we support this approach in the Conservative People's Party. As the Minister well explained, the figure is not true either. There are many in school practice, there are also too many in school practice, and we fully agree that we would like to have more from the internships and further out internship. We all know that we need more young people to carry out vocational training in the coming years. There is also a need for internships. Fortunately, the business community also knows that, and that is why we are seeing more and more people involved, among others. voluntary partnership agreements. I heard the Minister praise Danish Industry for their work and I fully agree. I would also agree with the Minister that the figure used in the motion for a resolution sends a rather unfortunate signal to future students, parents and counsellors that there are so many thousands without an internship. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155237	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur, and then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155246	I would like to start by thanking you for the debate and thank you for the fact that almost all the rapporteurs have said that it is so important for us to have more skilled people trained and for the quality of our vocational training. It may be that we disagree on what it is. I have been dealing with education policy for more than 12 years and have never discussed vocational training as much as they have been over the last two to three years and been so high on the agenda, and I think that is actually a good thing in itself. Having said that, we have put forward this proposal in the Enhedslisten because we believe that vocational training should be completed in an ordinary practical placement, that is, in a company, and that is also why we have used the figure that we have, because being in school practice is not good enough. We do not think so in the Enhedslisten. You do not have customer contacts, you do not have the same rights as apprentices on ordinary agreements, you do not work under the agreement, you work for a very, very low salary. One does not even have the same rights as one's friends in education where one receives an SU, so it is quite correct when the Minister says that we in the Enhedslist do not think it is good enough to take our education in school practice. We simply do not think so. The fact that some people then finish their education in school practice is so much better than the fact that they never took an education, and we also believe that the school experience should be there, because you can be so unfortunate as an apprentice that you are in a company that goes bankrupt, and yet it is better that you get into school practice than you go into unemployment. We have put forward this proposal because we believe that companies have a huge responsibility to ensure that we have skilled labour in the future. In the 00s, when the growth and order books were full, I remember that employers' organisations were out saying that companies simply did not have time to have an apprentice because they were so busy, so they did not have time to take apprentices. Then came the crisis, and then the order books became empty, and then business organisations, employers' organisations said: Now we cannot afford to take an apprentice. I think that, and we believe in the Enhedslisten, is proof that we have to take initiatives in here from Christiansborg to ensure that the internships are set up. Some call it coercion to use social clauses. I call it simply to expect companies to do what they have to do, because it is they who will use the workforce in five years' time, and that is why it is their responsibility to train it now, and that is why we have tabled this proposal. Finally, I would just like to say that yes, in the Enhedslisten we agree that we need to talk about vocational training, but this problem does not disappear from the fact that we stop talking about it. There won't be 12,000 internships because we in the Enhedslisten or anyone else for that matter stop talking about that they're missing. So I would like to say that we would very much like to be involved in discussing vocational training. We have actually spent a lot of gunpowder on that over the last few years, but we are not going to solve this problem by stopping talking about it. In the Enhedslisten, we are interested in solving this problem. We are interested in ensuring that everyone who starts vocational training can also have an internship, and here I am not talking about a school internship or about company education or a short agreement. No, I am talking about the fact that if you start vocational training, you have to be able to get a full agreement, an ordinary agreement and take your entire training in practice in a company. I very much hope that we can have a good committee on this, as the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party called for. We want to be part of the Enhedslisten, and then we can discuss at another time how many internships are really missing. In any case, I think that the rapporteurs who believe that this figure is not correct should go to a school internship centre and ask pupils who are in school practice whether they are missing an internship or not. However, as I said, we would very much like to take part in this proposal in the Committee on Children's and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155720	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155736	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155752	Thank you for the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, which I would like to start by stating is a proposal that the government cannot support. There is a very fundamental reason why we cannot support the fact that we should be able to vote locally. For there is therefore a reason why we have municipal autonomy, a local democracy in which the citizens choose the politicians they think represent them best and which must therefore also be responsible for the decisions that are taken. I think there's one thing that I think we all know isn't among the easiest decisions, and that's if you're actually gonna close a school. This is always something that rightly gives rise to a great deal of debate, because it can mean a great deal to the opportunities for a local area to attract citizens of different age groups, etc. etc. If there's anything that gives you a debate, it's school closures. That is why it is good that there are procedures to ensure that the municipal council is, of course, responsible for their local school system, that they are accountable to the citizens who elected them, and that, moreover, there are already different rules which require the municipal council to involve citizens in the decision to close down a primary school. In fact, if you want to close down a local primary school, the proposal must be sent to public consultation and the school boards of the schools concerned must be consulted at the same time. Since we support the kind of representative democracy in which people are responsible for their citizens, we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal, which will actually put local democracy out of effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155928	We thank the Minister. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526155954	Thank you for that, President. It's a long way from the back row and then up to the platform. The Left cannot support this motion for a resolution. In the view of the Left, it is therefore incredibly important that we respect municipal autonomy, and there is no legislation today prohibiting a municipal council from sending such a proposal here to a vote in the municipality. But to go in and demand it we will not be part of the Left. In the case of school closures, there are a number of requirements for procedures where there is a great deal of room for consultation as a citizen, and we actually think that the rules are good enough as they are today. In the Left, we are happy with representative democracy and we think it works well. In addition, as a citizen of a municipality, after four years, a municipal council can be called to account. But I understand that Enhedslisten thinks this is a good proposal, because it was clear from a debate here in Parliament last week that Enhedslisten thought that up to 3,000 primary schools had been opened in Denmark within a relatively short period of time, and we do not even have that many. So I understand you want to focus more on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160120	There is one brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160126	I would just like to take this opportunity to ask the rapporteur of the Left to deal with the debate we have here and with the figures to which we refer in this resolution, where there is no mention of 3 000 schools. So I just want to remind you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen that we now have a debate on this resolution and not on everything else that has taken place in this Chamber a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160151	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160153	Then you can always talk about it 'cause now time is something relatively something about last week's a long time ago. I just wanted to help the Enhedslisten out of that error by saying that no 3 000 primary schools have been closed in Denmark, as indicated in a debate here last week. Because I understand that if 3 000 primary schools are closed in Denmark, one would like to have a vote in the individual municipality; for that is a good many.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160218	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160228	Thank you. I myself was present in the Chamber during that debate, so I would just advise Mr. Peter Juel Jensen to go home and revisit the debate and hear his colleague Mr. In fact, Lars Dohn corrects the figure on the very same platform as Mr. Peter Juel Jensen is on now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160246	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160248	At my age, you have to be careful not to be too stubborn, but I think that the way it was corrected was to say that it was perhaps a little high, but that there was also VAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160306	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen, following this discussion and moving on to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160314	In the Social Democratic Party we are pleased with municipal autonomy, where the municipalities account for much of the close welfare, including the running of the common primary schools. It is a good model, where what is tradition in Denmark, between the elections, of course, takes place in a close dialogue between citizens, interest groups, trade unions, business, fire-souls and local councillors. I myself have been in a town council, and it is fortunately that there is also the possibility of cash settlement after 4 years if you are dissatisfied as a citizen with those who are in charge of the municipality. In relation to Enhedslisten's specific proposals here, there is no doubt that school closures are never a popular matter, either for the citizens or for the local politicians who have to bite the sour apple for one reason or another. But in the Social Democratic Party we do not want to make up for the fact that it is a municipal decision how to organise the local school system, and that is why we do not support the resolution. And I should like to say from the radical rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here, that neither do the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160415	Thank you, Mrs. Annette Lind, and we will move on to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160424	Thank you. As was the case with the two previous motions for resolutions, B 116 and B 125, the Enhedslisten, which will hold binding referendums in the event of school closures, has also moved a little strongly here. The Enhedslisten should then know that the municipalities are not allowed to do so; they have only the right to hold indicative votes. Therefore, if the municipalities are to have the right to hold binding votes, the local authority must be changed, and the resolution does not relate to that. In the Danish People's Party, we are enthusiastic supporters of referendums, both at national and national level. I myself have been involved in making proposals for indicative referendums in my municipality, Odense. Unfortunately, it was voted down in the city hall by all other parties also from the Enhedslisten. It is apparently very far between Enhedslisten at Borgen and Enhedslisten out in the municipalities. Referendums make good sense because they involve the citizens, but unfortunately our representative democracy is not so fond of referendums; just look at how to quell by putting important matters to the vote when it comes to the surrender of Danish sovereignty. Since the resolution is imprecise and it is not said whether local authority should be changed so that citizens generally have the right to have binding referendums, it is difficult to take a position on it. The proposal is a little superficial, although we fully agree that the subject is important and essential for our people's rule to continue to be viable. I would therefore suggest that we gather on a report in committee calling on the Minister for the Interior to hold a hearing on how local referendums can help to strengthen the local government of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160615	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. We move on to the next rapporteur and, as the Socialist rapporteur also spoke on behalf of the Radicals, it is the SF rapporteur, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160635	Thank you. In many ways, the proposal put forward here by Enhedslisten is very sympathetic. I can safely say this at a time when SF has also been in favour of the possibility of making more local referendums in the past, and we have also been in favour of the possibility of holding referendums in connection with school settlements in the past. There should be no doubt that we on the part of the SF will support the city councils who want to hold indicative referendums on school attendance. It must always be a local decision, among other things. in respect of municipal self-government. On top of this, however, it must of course be said that it is important to develop local democracies and that it is a great responsibility for each city council. However, on the part of the SF, we no longer believe that it makes sense to give citizens direct access to demanding a referendum, and there are several reasons for this. First of all, the school structure is in play in most of the country's municipalities because of demographic development and the new primary school, which means both fewer children in most of the country's municipalities in the outermost regions and greater requirements for teaching, which is why the school structure needs to be adapted in a very large number of municipalities to meet the requirements for proper line teaching, inclusion, well-being and sufficiently large classes. Secondly, following the municipal reform in 2007, many municipalities have also become so large that many citizens are no longer in touch with all parts of the local primary schools throughout the municipality. One example is that in Herning Municipality you have 62 km between the northernmost and southernmost schools. We also have examples of schools that have joint management on different matricles, and there are very many different structures in terms of how to organise their local primary schools. So what is important for the SF is that we do not compromise on quality, where the quality of the primary school is measured in particular by the well-being of the pupils and also by the education of the teachers and the ability of the managers to be managers. We shall vote against the proposal, but we look forward to the Enhedslisten in committee taking up this problem and, of course, we will join together, among other things. can discuss how we, together with the municipalities, can develop local democracies so that everyone feels included and as part of the democracy that prevails locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160934	Thank you to Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen. Then we go to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Merete Riisager from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526160941	If primary school is to be the school of the people, the people and citizens of Denmark must also have more influence on the school. We in the Liberal Alliance think so. They have to, among other things. have more influence on the parents' boards, and they must also have that by being able to set up a school locally if they believe that it is needed. It must simply be easier to set up a free school and it must not be possible for municipalities to directly oppose parents who, on their own initiative, want to set up a school locally. When Enhedslisten points out that there have been many school closures in the whole country, it is quite factually correct. The previous government had a travel team, and it happened that they went out and looked at the primary school and did a 360-degree review of the primary school. They came back with a number of suggestions, and what became quite clear in that analysis was that in the travel team it was thought that large schools could be the answer to many of the challenges of the primary school. As I see it, it was the proposal to bring together schools and to create larger schools that the municipalities took up very much in this area. And when you have done so in the municipalities, there are several different reasons for it. On the one hand, there has been a real need to close schools in some places, because many families of children move from Waterside Denmark to the towns and cities. There is an increase in urbanisation, and there are fewer children in Waterside Denmark, and on the other hand there have been some places in the municipal system among civil servants, especially, but also among local politicians, who believe that in this way some money could be saved when they closed schools and put schools together. I believe that in many places people have been somewhat disappointed by what has been achieved financially. In fact, the CEPOS carried out an analysis of school closures and aggregations which showed that the economic benefits in many places were quite poor. And what was then also demonstrated was that a professional fall had to be expected when schools were put together. Against this background, I think it can be said that at least in some municipalities there have been amalgamations of schools, for which there is no proper rational and professional justification. At the same time, it can be said that the demand from parents not everywhere, but in many places also concentrates on some of the smaller schools. There are simply many parents who want their children to attend a not too large and very manageable school. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that Christiansborg politicians should interfere in what kind of school parents choose for their children. We want parents to be able to choose school for themselves, and we want the primary schools to have more freedom to go to school. Wherever you want it, you have to be able to become self-serving. We should not stand here at Castle and determine what the school structure should be like. But it is clear that when I highlight the travel team and their inspection, it is because a signal was sent from Christiansborg, which may have meant that the trend that was going on was further strengthened and that some school closures were made which were not always justified on a case-by-case basis. But again: we cannot stand here at Christiansborg and create the school structure, and I therefore believe that the Liberal Alliance cannot support B 133.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161352	Thank you to Mrs Merete Riisager as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then we move on to Mr. Daniel Rugholm as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161401	With this resolution, the Enhedslisten wants a local referendum if a municipal council wants to close a primary school. The referendum will then have to decide whether to close the school or not. When I read the proposal, I wondered whether I should write a long speech about municipal autonomy and confidence from us in the Folketing to the members of the municipal council, who are faced with local challenges and responsibilities, or about the citizens' ability to vote in municipal elections for parties that share their views on school closures. After all, this is a subject that often fills a lot in the election campaigns in the municipalities where school closures will be topical, so the citizens will hardly doubt the views of the parties. I was also wondering whether I should ask Enhedslisten whether this should also apply to care centres, snow clearing or other priorities in the municipalities. We have local autonomy, we have local elections, we have legal requirements for hearings and it works very well. After a little consideration, I chose not to make a long statement about something that, frankly, I think is fairly basic and fundamental in our democracy. Although I recognise and will always protect the right of all parties to table resolutions, I must admit that I think we could have spent the last hour better than dealing with this kind of signal policy issue, which can almost only be regarded as part of the forthcoming election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161530	Thank you, sir. Daniel Rugholm. And we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161541	Thank you. I would just like to start by reassuring the teaching rapporteurs who are here that we in the Enhedslist think that politics can be done here in the Assembly, without it being an election campaign, or without it being a budget law. In fact, we believe that all the time we have together in the Folketing should be used to make policy. I guess that's our job as politicians. So it's just to reassure the Conservative rapporteur that this is not really about campaigning. In the Enhedslisten, we have tabled this resolution because we believe that the local community should have a much greater influence on local schools and thus also on whether a school should close. Since 2000, over 350 primary schools have been closed around the country. And I would just like to repeat the figure in honour of the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, Mr President. Peter Juel Jensen: 350 primary schools have been closed around the country. In some cases there are good educational reasons for school closures, but unfortunately closures are often due to a desire to save, i.e. to economic considerations, or to a desire for increased centralisation by the municipalities. This has resulted in parents and local communities setting up free schools where public schools have been closed down. And the number of free schools has also increased by approx. 100 schools since 2000. Right now, school closures are being trumped through against the will of the local people, for example. in Randers, which results in the opening of free schools in exactly the same premises as the old primary schools used. As a result, the local population shows that they want the local school. In the Enhedslisten we trust that parents and local communities will be able to assess the impact of a school closure on the pupils as well as on the local community as a whole, and we therefore propose in the Enhedslisten that if a municipality wants to close a primary school, the citizens of the municipality should have the right to make a local referendum deciding whether or not to close the school in question. This isn't really about an attack on municipal self-government. This is more about expanding our democracy and involving citizens more in municipal self-government. So you can say that we in the Enhedslisten see it a little inversely compared to e.g. The Conservative People's Party, and it is therefore against this background that we have tabled this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161820	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161823	Thank you. I just thought I had to replicate. I am well aware of the figure for primary schools that have been closed. I think that instead of repeating the figure to me, the rapporteur should perhaps repeat it at a group meeting in the Enhedslisten. Because that's where the challenge is, that is, you can't tell the difference between 350 and 3,000. It's not with me. I understand that Enhedslisten is incredibly hot for this, and I have had to give up convincing the rapporteur that this is perhaps not such a good idea. But how far does this proposal go? Will the Enhedslisten also consider calling for a referendum if a kindergarten is to be closed if a polling place is to be closed if day care is to be closed? What is the scope of this proposal with the eyes of Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161911	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161912	Well, the scope of this proposal is exactly the one that Mr. Peter Juel Jensen can read in the motion for a resolution. It's about primary schools. And as Mr. Peter Juel Jensen suggests, Enhedslisten in fact, that we should expand our democracy. We believe that the local people should have more to say. So I cannot rule out the possibility that at some point in the future there will be a motion for a resolution on nursing homes or nurseries or nurseries. But to answer Mr. Peter Juel Jensen's question, I would like to say that this resolution is about what it says, namely primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161950	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526161952	When you close a primary school today, there is a particular process, a particular procedure that you as a municipality have to go through. There must be consultation, consultation, etc. Is it not also to involve the citizens? Is it only the very direct democracy that can be called citizen-involved? What about all the things that have now been equated with e.g. a school board? Is it not also a form of democracy? For the school board in question is then consulted. But I understand from the rapporteur that they represent no parents at all and are therefore not part of democracy. Is that really Enhedslisten's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162035	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162037	No, it certainly isn't. In the Enhedslisten we are actually very much in favour of school boards and have also made proposals to extend school boards so that parents, but also employees and pupils, will have more to say, just as we are also great supporters of hearings. But just as we in here at Christiansborg also hold hearings on one and the other and in the Education Committee also have visits from school boards or pupils or teachers, or whoever it may be, we also have votes in the Chamber on some things, and there is also a parliamentary election sometimes. So I do not think that one excludes the other, and I do not think anyone in here thinks so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162115	Sir. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162118	Just a clear question. Now the rapporteur spoke of the fact that what was intended was to extend democracy. But then, when you confirm what you did on Mr. Knox... Peter Juel Jensen's question, that it should only apply to primary schools, is not a restriction or a restriction of democracy, since people must be allowed to have something to say in relation to their local primary school, but must not be allowed to influence, for example. the local kindergarten? For in many cases it is equally important to have day care facilities and day care providers and everything else? Is it not more a restriction when people can only have something to say in relation to the local primary school, but should not have a word to say in relation to local kindergarten?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162159	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162200	Now Mr. Peter Juel Jensen right to this proposal, which is before us now and which is about primary school. If the Conservative People's Party wants to help expand democracy so that parents have more influence on the day institutions, then we in the Enhedslist would be very happy to join in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162219	Sir. Daniel Rugholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162221	I'm just thinking that if this is to be a little bit credible, it should include everything else too, for example. kindergartens and day care. For that matter, it could also be snow clearing and all sorts of other things in the municipality. Will the proposal not really mean "maybe it has been put a little on the head, but still I think we are there" that instead of abolishing the municipal councils and then, in principle, doing one or some kind of survey out into the cities when deciding one or the other? Because that's the first step on the way to some slippery lane there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162251	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162252	I think, sir. Daniel Rugholm reads something between the lines that is not there. The Conservative People's Party should be very welcome to come up with us in the Enhedslisten in the Proviant House, and we can then make a joint proposal on how to expand democracy and ensure that parents have more influence in the day institutions. At least that's something we want in the Enhedslisten. But I can reassure the Conservative People's Party that what this proposal is about is exactly what it says in the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162322	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162325	Mrs Lund did not really reply to any of the suggestions and comments I made in my rapporteur's speech. In it, the Danish People's Party urged the Interior Minister to hold a hearing on how we can strengthen local democracy through several referendums. Today, as a citizen, there is no right to demand referendums. It's only the mayor and the city council who decide that kind of thing. Would it not also be more sensible for us to have a general debate on referendums in the municipalities instead of a very specific debate on whether school closures should trigger referendums? That would be such a more fundamental debate. I tried to raise it in the rapporteur's speech, and Mrs Rosa Lund did not really answer it. I'm gonna let her do that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162427	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162429	Thank you. Well, I'm sorry, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. We would like to be a part of the Enhedslisten. We are always interested in discussing and also to finding solutions to how democracy can be extended, so that it is about more than one election we make every four years. So we would very much like to be involved in this with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162452	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162453	That's great. The second thing I did not get an answer to either is that referendums in municipalities can only be indicative. They cannot be binding, and the wordings of the motion for a resolution put forward almost binding referenda. How does Enhedslisten view this? Will the local authority and statute be changed to make referendums binding, or should they continue to be indicative, if we are now onto the trail of what we were just talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162525	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162526	Well, uh, just compared to the folk school thing, the Enhedslisten would be fine with it being indicative. What matters to us is that we involve the local population when we make such fundamental changes as closing the local primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162547	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank Mrs Lund as rapporteur for the authors of the motion. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162618	The debate is open. I'll start by giving the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526162634	Thank you, sir. President. The resolution before us today, tabled by the Conservative People's Party, is that the so-called property tax rate should be reinstated. According to the lot, this is to be done by reintroducing paragraphs 17 and 18 of circular No. 185 of 17 November 1982, which had effect until the repeal, which occurred on 5 February 2015 via Circular No. 9.054. The abolition of the property tax rate is a subject which has raised a number of public debates. I am therefore also pleased that we will have the opportunity to take the debate here today so that we can put things right. Let me start by briefly outlining what the implementation of the motion for a resolution would really mean: firstly, it would once again be possible to avoid income tax in Denmark if a gift recipient lives abroad. The tax gap that was crucial to the abolition of the wealth tax rate by the government would thus be reopened. Secondly, there will again be the possibility of adding unlisted shares to values which may be very far removed from the value of the transaction, otherwise the value will have to be determined according to the tax law. How this can be done administratively, without amending the law, I shall leave it to the authors of the motion to explain. For me, and according to the Treasury's assessment, that is not possible. Thirdly, the proposal will mean that companies with significant intangible assets that are being changed generationally will again be able to obtain major tax advantages, while other companies will not receive a corresponding discount. Let me give you a more detailed explanation and at the same time take the opportunity to explain once again why the government abolished the property tax rate. The abolition of the asset tax rate was both about closing a tax gap and ensuring a uniform and fair valuation by inheritance and gift. The reason for the cancellation was that SKAT had pointed out in an early warning that Danish profit margin tax could be avoided by the transfer of unlisted shares if the gift recipient lived abroad. So it was a tax hole that would have been irresponsible not to close. SKAT also pointed out that the valuation of the asset tax rate could be very far removed from the commercial value. In one case, the tax base was approx. 385 million kr. Too low in relation to gift tax and income tax. In another case, the asset tax rate represented only 1 per cent of the company's value. Although it had been known for many years that the asset tax rate often hit lower than the real value, the asset tax rate could therefore be significantly lower than the trading value than previously assumed. Finally, in a decision published in January 2015, the Tax Council had established that there was virtually always a legal requirement to use the property tax rate for inheritance and gift, even in cases where it could be established that the value of the trade was actually much higher than the property tax rate. The practice of using the property tax rate had thus developed into an infringement of the Bogstilggesetz, which states that the value should be set at the commercial value. That is why it is not possible, as I have already said, simply to reinstate paragraphs 17 and 18 of the valuation circular which the proposers propose. As mentioned above, the value of unlisted shares in the calculation of the estate tax and inheritance tax is to be set at the commercial value, and therefore it would also require a change of law if a legal situation were to be restored with open eyes, which means that the value could be set much lower than the commercial value. Furthermore, the asset tax rate discriminated against taxpayers. The asset tax rate could be used for the inheritance and gift of unlisted shares. This was in particular an advantage in the valuation of unlisted shares in companies with large intangible assets it could, for example: be trademark rights, etc. On the other hand, the same advantages could not be obtained by the transfer of other unlisted shares, quoted shares, personally owned companies and other assets. Thus, the asset tax rate meant that even for two companies with the same value, the tax on the dwelling or gift could be very different. Let me give you an example: two companies both have a trading value of 10 million. kr. One company primarily owns machinery and other production equipment. In some cases, the asset tax rate could be close to 10 million. kr. The other company primarily owns patent and trade mark rights in this case, in some cases the property tax rate could be close to DKK 0, because intangible assets are excluded. With the abolition of the property tax rate, these disparities were eliminated and more uniform taxation was ensured for all taxpayers and for the real values of generational change. The asset tax rate was abolished with a forward-looking effect. The measures already taken were therefore not affected. It was necessary to implement the termination without prior warning in order to ensure that the rules could not continue to be used. If we had announced that the asset tax rate would be abolished, a considerable number of transfers would certainly have been made to values which would not affect the value of the transaction, that is to say, some sort of hoarding. It should also be stressed that companies are not without methods of valuation of unlisted shares. There are other simple and more precise valuation methods than the asset tax rule, such as: in two circulars from SKAT on the valuation of shares and the valuation of goodwill. These methods have been used since the year 2000 in cases outside gift and inheritance situations, and these are rules which are already known and have been applied for a number of years. In general, therefore, there are good reasons why the government abolished the property tax rate and there are no significant reasons for reintroducing it. It is also important to stress here that favourable rules continue to apply for the transfer of business to family members, etc. For related family members, the residence and gift tax is 15% and there is a possibility of deferred payment for up to 15 years. As part of the "Growth Plan" from 2013, the grace period was relaxed, so the minimum rate is now 3%. pro anno. In addition, when a business is transferred to a related family member, the tax success rules may be applied. This means that the profit margin tax may be deferred to any subsequent sale of the company. If access to success is used, a reduction in the housing and gift tax base of 22 per cent will be applied. in the form of the so-called liability item. In practice, the rules mean that effective taxation at the time of transfer can be reduced from 51 per cent. 17 per cent. the value of the entity, if the generational change is carried out sensibly. This corresponds to a two-thirds discount on a transfer without success. The authors state that family-owned companies have to pay 40%. in the SKAT of their equity at a generational change. As mentioned, the reality is that the tax can be kept at 17 per cent. of the value of the enterprise. For some companies, liquidity challenges may arise if they do not get funds planned and set aside in time to implement the generational shift. That is precisely the concern that has been taken into account by the tax rules that we have today. This applies both to the rules on fiscal success and to the deferral of the tax on property and gifts, as I have just explained. Finally, I would like to point out that in the context of Gækstplan DK... the government, together with the parties to the agreement, set aside the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party... 300 million. kr. to a success scheme for commercial funds. The government has now presented a concrete success model for the funds, with a further 60 million. kr. in relation to the original framework. Overall, I believe that with the government's initiatives in the area of ^, very sensible conditions have been secured for family-owned companies in relation to the taxation of generational change. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163614	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163618	I would like to drill a little bit into this and ask why this sudden interest in closing a so-called tax hole, which is from 1982 and therefore 33 years old, has come to light. We can hear the reaction of companies that are very concerned. We can hear companies that say that it will be harder to make a generation change in Denmark and that they may have to either close or sell out of the estate or sell abroad. So a response to that from the Minister would be relevant here. Does the Minister not at all fear what this means for all our family-owned companies in Denmark that are facing a generational change? What does that have to do with consequences? Several of them will be sold abroad, some of them will shut down, and a very large part of them will take out assets, which means that they cannot invest in jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163707	You'd almost think that mr. Brian Mikkelsen hadn't just heard my speech, but that's fair enough. There are two specific examples, of course in anonymised form, which I mentioned in my speech, that is to say one example in which a company received a tax base of 385 million. kr. Too low, and the second, where there was a capital tax rate, which was just 1·· 1· 1·, not 1% of the company's equity value. These are quite excellent examples of biases. And again I would say: in cases where companies had to have very small intangible assets, but large material assets, they would not have had the same opportunity at all. There is also the example that I mentioned, although it is a thoughtful example, but it is very illustrative with the two companies, both of which have a trading value of 10 million. kr. One gets a set of 10 million. kr., and the other gets one close to 0 kr. I think these are good examples of the fact that there was precisely an inappropriateness and, in addition to that, of course, a concrete tax gap that had to be closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163813	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163815	Inappropriateness is simply that, according to the Minister of Taxation, the tax is not paying enough tax. After all, it is some strange form of zeal that I do not think is at all comfortable in our society, that is to say, you just think about getting as much money in the box as possible. For the companies we are talking about here are companies which continue to exist and which pay taxes and taxes and which finance employees' salaries. If the alternative for them is that they have to shut down or be sold abroad or stop some investment, then you lose payments from them continuously, and then you close companies with a blue eye and with blinds on, as you do in the SKAT. And we must change that view if there is a bourgeois government. Because it's not just about getting more money in the treasury. It is therefore a question of treating people properly and ensuring that jobs are in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163855	One of the things I think is to treat people and businesses properly is that you have a level playing field. I think it is very illogical that a Conservative should be in favour of treating equal companies differently. At any rate, it is new to me that it should be conservative policy. And I must stress once again that it would be a precondition for amending the law if necessary. So it is not just an administrative exercise that can change this, because on this point the law is very clear: it is the value of the trade that it has to be measured.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163929	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526163932	I really don't think the tax minister is dealing with the center of this. At the heart of the matter is whether the conditions of companies improve or deteriorate. And what is quite clear is that with this exercise the tax minister has made a change which means that the tax minister gets 1⁄2 billion. kr. more into taxes a year. That's 1⁄2 billion. DKK which can no longer be invested in the companies, which can no longer be invested in securing private Danish jobs. Doesn't the Minister of Taxation have any concern about the importance it has for Danish business and for the family-owned companies that fill so much in Danish economy? That they are now being hit with an extra tax payment of 1⁄2 billion. kr., isn't that something that the tax minister is in any way worried about?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164024	I actually thought that the Left and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen was concerned that people were treated equally before the law. The point is that in this context there has been a difference in treatment depending on whether something that was primarily tangible or intangible assets was identified, and thus created a distortion. I have to admit that I find it difficult to see the point of thinking that by not closing tax gaps, we should have a situation worthy of a legal society. Finally, if you want to improve some conditions for companies, we can do that, for example. If we make growth plans, then it must be the case that there are the same and thus uniform rules, regardless of what kind of company construction is. And that you do it through the front door, if I may say so, and do not try to hide it by the back door by implementing or maintaining some very lucrative rules for some individual companies, even some lucrative rules, which are, of course, contrary to the words of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164133	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164134	At any rate, the Minister of Taxation is not part of a government which has itself tried to address it here during the growth package negotiations. This has come as a thief at night, and then it has been wrapped as a treasure pit. The reality is that the net revenue of this is 1⁄2 billion. kr. A year, and that's 1⁄2 billion. kr. that companies do not have to invest with. So it is strange that the tax minister is now talking about equality when what was the justification in the press release that was sent out at 8 p.m. 00.07 at night was a treasure pit, which could have been handled in countless other ways. What is important in relation to generational change is how much liquidity is being drawn from the companies in connection with a generational change. The wealth tax rate has worked since 1982 and to call it a tax hole is strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164225-2	Now I have explained very clearly why it is a tax hole. There can be no doubt about that. What you can discuss is, of course, always what you want to do in the future, and I have not yet heard the Left explain whether you want to change the legislation in this area, because that would be a prerequisite. So I have to make it clear once again that if we are to have circulars and legislation to agree, then we have to make sure that it is true. That is why the proposal before us does not have the unimportant disadvantage that it would not be possible to implement it without amending the legislation, which the proposal does not, moreover, envisage.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164308	Then we have a further brief comment. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164312	We are certainly in favour of treating people equally. That is why we want the inheritance tax to be abolished for everyone. But we'd like to start with some We'd like to start with the inheritance tax for family-owned companies at generational change, and then we'll take the rest later. Just as when it comes to registration fees for cars, we would also like to start with those who run on electricity and then take the rest afterwards, and just as when it comes to abolishing military service, for example, we do not propose that it should include women, but instead propose that it should be abolished for men. Then there'll be treatment. But will the Minister not admit that it is a problem for companies if they lose 1⁄2 billion? kr. As a result of the government's actions here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164405	Actually, I'd like to join you, sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, that I think it is nice to discuss tax policy with you. May I, President, address me directly? No, the President looks at me very closely. I think it's nice to discuss tax policy with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, because Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is exactly what it's all about. In other words, it is quite fair to take the political view that we would like to grant a tax relief to certain specific ones. But I also believe that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen will agree that if you have to, it must be done through the front door and not hidden, by having a circular that does not comply with the law. I assume that, if so, the Liberal Alliance would rather state in the law that the percentage should be 0, so that there was nothing there, if I may say so, that was going on with the valuation. For the valuation, we can agree on what is provided for in the law, namely to the value of the transaction, and then it should also be the value of the trade that is applicable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164515	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164516	So, the tax minister would like to harmonise at the lowest possible level, so if the tax minister were rapporteur on defence, he would think that because we have to have equality in this country and men have military service, then women must also have military service. And because we have a registration fee on diesel and petrol cars, we also have to have it on electric cars because there has to be equal treatment. No, go the other way! If you think something's wrong, you go the other way. In this case, we want to go the other way, and it is a step on the way to not having any inheritance tax that we have a more lenient tax than the one the minister wants. And that's kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164600	But I have to admit, I cannot understand at all that an otherwise righteous gentleman such as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen believes that the best thing to do is to maintain something that is contrary to the law, in order to give a discount. I assume, then, that in a serious party in this Parliament at least one would think that, if so, it should be written into the law at the very least, how this should be handled and that it should not be pissed through valuations that are not fair. I am very surprised that this is the position of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164638	We shall continue with a further brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164644	Thank you, sir. President. Actually, I'd like to discuss a little process with the tax minister. Because, as previous rapporteurs have said, it was a bit of a surprise that, just around midnight, it was thought that this announcement would be made that paragraphs 17 and 18 of circular 185 on the property tax rate would be deleted. Will the Minister try to explain how much the Minister has done to involve the parties of the Folketing in a common understanding of what the Minister of Taxation chose to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164717	This is an administrative decision as a consequence of the fact that legislation and circulars should be linked, as I have also explained. If you want to restore the property tax rate, it will, if necessary, require you to change the law in force, and that is why it is quite right to do so. It is also clear that if a long process had been chosen it probably would not even have had to be terribly long in relation to the public about this change, then a hoarding would have been possible, as I have explained. That is why it was necessary to do so with immediate effect from the time it was published.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164802	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164804	Well, I think that's nice. A hoarding after 33 years! So, as I said earlier, I am aware that it has been in force since 1982. But enough about it. I would like to keep the Minister on this with the process. The Minister says that it cannot be done because it can then lead to other unfortunate consequences. But I guess that doesn't change the fact that if the minister wanted to, he could have invited the tax rapporteurs, for example, to an orientation meeting on this issue before they started sending out these announcements a little after midnight. The Minister could have done so if the Minister had wished. Can I understand that as being correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164851	If it had been the case that I had the slightest doubt as to whether the Folketing considered that the law applicable in this area should continue to apply, then it is clear that it would have been natural to call the parties of the Folketing. I did not think that the parties of the Folketing were in doubt that the law in force, which was adopted by a large majority, was also in force. Then I have to say again that I simply cannot vote on the idea that this is an old matter. For in January 2015, there was a ruling in the Tax Council that clearly indicated a new approach to this, and it is precisely because of the early warning that has come from SKAT that this action has been taken, as I have clearly explained.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164944	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation and give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526164954	Family-owned companies in Denmark form a large and important part of our business community. Hundreds of thousands of jobs are in family-owned companies. And to ensure growth and employment in Denmark, there is actually a need to strengthen the opportunities for successful generation shifts in the family-owned companies. We on the Left have long since announced this, and with last year's growth agreement there are 2.1 billion. kr. in uncontaminated funds, and we have clearly reported them by the Left to be used to ensure better conditions for generational change in family-owned companies. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to go the other way. Instead of improving conditions, the government, as a thief at night, has reduced the opportunities for generational change in family-owned businesses. At 1:00 a.m. 00.07 the night to 5 February this year, the government abolished the so-called wealth tax circular, and it has been used since 1982 to value enterprises in connection with generational change. The repeal of the two relevant provisions of the circular made it significantly more expensive to make a generational change. In reply to me, the Minister for Taxation has stated that the austerity which the Minister has carried out and tried to call a hole closure gives the Treasury an additional revenue of 1⁄2 billion. kr. annual. So that's 1⁄2 billion. DKK which cannot be invested in companies which cannot be invested for the benefit of growth and which cannot be invested in more jobs. It's the wrong way to go. As I have said, the Minister for Taxation has today justified his intervention by the fact that he closed a tax gap. But when the intervention gives more money in the Treasury, it is not a question of closing a hole, but of making a tightening. Normally, if you close a tax hole, you avoid an accidental loss of revenue, but you do not get any more money in the box. That's what you do in this case. So the plug the minister wants to put in the hole is very, very large. It is so large that it provides additional revenue. And the cases that the Minister is trying to use as examples that more or less without tax heirs can take the money abroad could have been solved much more precisely and purposefully without hitting the very many companies that are now subject to severe tightening. Let me make it clear, for the sake of good order, that for the Left it is not a question of heirs being able to take money out of companies without paying tax. Of course, they have to pay taxes. But when money stays in companies and can be used for development and investment and can create jobs, it is therefore unreasonable that companies should be drained of capital only to pay tax on a generational change. When the money is taken out to the shareholders, of course tax will have to be paid, but draining the companies of capital is not to benefit the growth in Denmark. For the Left, as I said, it is a question of improving the conditions of family-owned companies, and that is why we support the Conservative motion for a resolution. Because if you want to improve the conditions for running a business in Denmark and ensure better opportunities for family-owned companies to continue to create growth and employment, then the solution that the government has chosen is to go in the wrong direction. Because while the government is busy spending taxpayers' money, we must remember that in the end the money can only come from one place: from the private sector. Then we must have a more prosperous Denmark, where more people are in work and where we do not see growth lagging behind our neighbouring countries and the countries with which we usually compare ourselves, then there is a need to improve the business environment and not to weaken them. Ensuring good conditions for generational shifts in family-owned companies is actually due diligence. This ensures jobs for the future, and it helps to ensure our prosperity, and that is why we must improve, and not reduce, the opportunities for family-owned businesses. And it is the Left's wish that we improve and not weaken them, as the government did at 9 a.m. 00.07 the night to 5 February this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165402	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165408	I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether the position of the Left is clear in this area. As far as I could read in the Stock Exchange, the Left has not done what they will do in the event that, after an election campaign, they gain the power of government. Should I just take the rapporteur's speech today as an expression of the fact that this has been done in the Left with itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165433	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165434	What I have said here today is that we support the proposal, because we believe that the backward step taken by the government is a mistake. This is going to cost jobs and it will cost investment, so let us start by not taking a step in the wrong direction, and it will solve this resolution. Then we have also stated clearly that we believe that there is a need to improve conditions, and I am, of course, sorry that we have not been able to reach agreement with the government on this, so that the money is uncontaminated. However, we in the Left have said very clearly that we want to improve conditions, and a first step in improving them is of course not to take a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165513	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165515	Now the status quo is what it is. But let us say that the election has been held and that the Left god forbid it gets the government power, and then I ask: what are you going to do? It's just that the people who might be watching here can be absolutely sure what the Left intends to do if you're sitting in the tax minister's office.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165538	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165541	Yes, as we have said quite clearly, we intend to improve the conditions for generational shifts in family-owned businesses. Because it is important that a generational change can take place under proper conditions and in a way that does not drain the company from capital. Because if you do not improve the conditions, there is therefore a risk that a generational change can drain a company from capital, thereby hampering its development and thereby hampering growth in Denmark. So there is a clear need for ^ and that is what the Left has stated clearly that we are improving the conditions and that we do not undermine them as the government does.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165617	Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen; there are no more brief remarks. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Annette Lind from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165627	Thank you. The Social Democrats' tax rapporteur, Astrid Krag, could not make it back, so I was just asked to stay in the Chamber and read the rapporteur's speech. In February of this year, the asset tax rate was abolished in order to close a tax gap which would be irresponsible not to close. It ensured a fair and equal valuation of inheritance and gifts and that all taxpayers would be much more uniformly and fairly taxed by the real values when there was a generational change. The authors of the motion for a resolution apparently have a different view of tax gaps, because with the resolution we are now debating, the Conservative People's Party will reinstate the asset tax rate and thus open the tax gap again. There were three reasons why we abolished the property tax rate. Firstly, it would have appeared that there was an opportunity to avoid profit-making tax in Denmark if the person who received the task lived abroad. Secondly, with the asset tax price, it was possible to value unlisted shares at values far from trading value. Thirdly, the asset tax rate meant that taxpayers were discriminated against because companies with large intangible assets could receive large tax rebates which other companies could not obtain. The Bo and Gift Tax could therefore be very different for two companies of the same value. All these imbalances have been eliminated because the property tax rate has been abolished, and we are quite happy about that. The fact that we have abolished the property tax rate does not in any way affect the fact that there are still quite favourable rules for choosing to transfer your business to a family member. For family members, the estate and inheritance tax is 15% and payment can be deferred for up to 15 years. We have even relaxed the restraining mechanism in relation to Growth Plan DK from 2013, so the minimum rate is now 3%. p.a. If you choose to transfer your business to a family member, you can also use the rules on fiscal success so that you can postpone the profit tax to a possible later sale of the business. The success of the concession will result in a reduction of 22 per cent in the housing and gift tax base. At the time of the transfer, effective taxation can therefore be reduced to 17 per cent. the company's value, if you plan your generational change wisely, and not 40%, as the proposers write in their proposals. Then we also have with the Growth Plan DK, where the proposers are also included, set aside 300 million. kr. to a success scheme for commercial funds. We have just presented a concrete model of success for the funds, where we have set aside 60 million. kr. on top of the original framework, and that is quite favorable. So all in all, there are quite reasonable conditions for family-owned companies that choose a generational change, and we do not think it is reasonable to reopen closed tax gaps in any way. So the Socialists cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165921	Then I would like to thank Mrs Annette Lind from the Socialist Group. We move on to the next rapporteur. It's from the Danish People's Party, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526165931	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to thank the Conservatives for today's opportunity to discuss here in the Danish Parliament this changed practice and the announcement which came in February from the Minister of Taxation. In the Danish People's Party, we do not believe that it is time to increase state taxes and taxes on our companies, and that is really what happened when the tax minister changed circular no. 185, which had functioned quite reasonably since 1982. What we in the Danish People's Party consider to be the great challenge is that among other things. This motion for a resolution clearly illustrates the challenge that exists in relation to the fact that we have a desire to preserve the traditions that are precisely around family-owned companies in Denmark. One will see that, unfortunately, more and more family-owned companies end up registering funds and being owned by funds instead of purely for tax reasons. This is a pity to the Danish People's Party, and we find it a pity for the culture we have in Denmark, where we have, for many, many generations, had many family-owned companies; both the very small companies such as the butcher and the mechanic, but also larger, successful export-oriented companies. What has happened and has become the consequence of the changes that came from the Minister of Taxation is, of course, as I said, that there will be an extra bill for companies of 500 million. kr., and it's of course some money you can only spend once. This means, of course, that the funds are then not available to develop new products, to launch new initiatives, to seek out new markets or to ensure competitiveness with regard to the type of business that is now being dealt with. We in the Danish People's Party find this a pity. That is also why, from the outset, I was perhaps trying to ask the tax minister some questions about the process of this. Because we think that since the government had these plans that we think are very far-reaching, perhaps we should at least have had a little focus on practice and have just started some discussions with the rapporteurs of the various parties in this area to see if there was no place where we could find a common ground. For example, it did not end up with an extra tax bill of 1⁄2 billion. kr. to the Danish companies. We believe that it would have been quite appropriate to ensure that the money was returned to the same area from which it was taken. But that is not what has been intended in the government, and of course we in the Danish People's Party regret that. I am going to discuss the process again with the tax minister. I think it is a wrong practice that we have with all these ministerial powers, and I think that we should perhaps also discuss today whether it would not be reasonable to remove the power of ministers to enter a little after midnight and communicate this kind of news outside the Folketing. We think it would be quite reasonable not to have as far-reaching powers as a minister to go in and change existing practices, even when it is a law that has so many years on the back as the law that we are discussing here today. This has not been the intention of the government. We accept that, of course, but it also gives the logical consequence that we want to restore the shortcomings that have resulted from this. In short, we want the 500 million. kr. As a minimum, it is to be a practice such as the one proposed by the Conservatives, in which it is returned to the region by reintroducing the property tax rate. That is what the Minister says you cannot in the form it has. We can then start work on that, but I think we must have the government accept that these 500 million. kr. I need to get back to the area. It's the least you can do. But, as I have said, we are signing up to the Conservatives to allow us to deal with this motion for a resolution and we can also support it by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170347	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170353	You can sometimes wonder about DF. In any case, it may be a little difficult to know where the party places itself. Well, I had, for example. did not believe that in a discussion on the alignment of tax rules, DF would place itself to the right of Conservatives, in other words, in a matter of the small man who may have a machine factory having to pay much more in tax than a giant multinational company, who might mostly earn his profits from intangible rights. But this is often the way to be surprised by DF. So just to get a little smarter: Does DF's rapporteur think it's okay for someone who has a smaller machine factory to pay more in tax than a large multinational company?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170446	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170448	After many years of tirelessly collecting taxes in Denmark, we have a fairly comprehensive tax law in Denmark. I believe that all parties here in the Danish Parliament have a certain share in this, and of course we are also in the Danish People's Party behind the tax legislation that exists. But that does not change the premise of what we are trying to discuss today: is it reasonable to use an argument that a so-called tax hole will be closed to print a new bill of 500 million? kr. to a number of Danish family-owned companies? This is the fundamental issue that I think we should discuss today and not so much gauntlet and reflection that I know very well that the SF would like to discuss. But that does not change the premise, and it is therefore that this is a re-regulation of something that has been carried out on an unspeakable basis here in the Folketing or bypassing the Folketing by a ministerial decree in the middle of the night. And I think we should perhaps try to focus on that so that we can get it restored, either by the way the minister has said it is not possible to re-introduce this circular asset tax rate with or at least by having a debate on how we get the 500 million back. kr. to these family-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170603	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170605	That is not the premise. The premise is that with this resolution we would roll back something that is very sensible, namely to ensure equality when it comes to taxation. That is the premise. It may be that DF's rapporteur feels that it is a little uncomfortable to have to stand up here and be on the side of the large multinational companies instead of supporting those who handle ordinary physical goods and therefore in some cases would have to pay close to DKK 0. Baby. That is why I just have to ask DF's rapporteur again: is it reasonable for a man who owns a smaller machine factory and has one or two employees to pay more in tax than a large multinational company that has its values in, for example, the United Kingdom? patents and trademarks?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170658	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170700	Now it is the case that there are more people to discuss, and I do not think that the SF, on behalf of all parties here in the Folketing, can just say what the premise should be. The challenge is clear that the government outside the Folketing has printed an additional annual bill for Danish family-owned companies of 500 million. kr. That is the premise. At least that's what I'm working on. Then you can in SF mean something else, and of course you should be very welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170729	Yeah. One more brief remark. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170732	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party speaks so well about the harmful things that happen when the inheritance tax is levied on companies at the time of generational change. There is no capital to consolidate, there is no capital to invest in new production and smarter production, and that is really bad. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Does this mean that the Danish People's Party now agrees with the Liberal Alliance and the Left and the Conservatives that the inheritance tax on companies at generational change should be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170804	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170806	This means that we want to be involved in the negotiations on ensuring that the generational tax is fair and fair in Denmark. This is not the same as saying as the Liberal Alliance that we have now drawn up a 2025 plan, and now we can just abolish all taxes in Denmark. After all, the piano doesn't play like that. I think we should be fair to each other and admit that. That's gotta be it. But to return to the premise again, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party would like to be involved in negotiating a clear improvement in the current generational shift tax, also with regard to inheritance taxes, where companies have to change ownership. We think that would be a perfectly logical agenda to have for a future majority here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170847	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170849	After all, it is not because the Danish People's Party is usually so greasy to say that there are different taxes that need to be relieved without reference to a plan for how it is financed. It happens very often. But I think it's very interesting, this. Because when the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance have talked about abolishing the inheritance tax for the generational change of companies, it has sounded like the Danish People's Party, as if you were very opposed to it. However, I understand from the rapporteur on Parliament's platform that we are now very open to doing something about the inheritance tax on the generational change of companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170922	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526170924	There is nothing new about this, I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to it. However, we do not have the same agenda as the Liberal Alliance, we recognise that without a doubt. We have not been able to find the much money needed to completely eliminate inheritance taxes in Denmark, either for companies or for individuals for that matter. I know it's easier for the Liberal Alliance to find money. We can see that. But in the Danish People's Party we have a, I think, fairly good tradition that we do not count on what is called dynamic effects. We would like to look at the results after the law has been changed. And that means that if dynamic effects come, of course we will enjoy them and recognise them in the years to come, but we will not do so in advance of implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526171007	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no more brief comments so that we can move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526171019	Thank you. The Conservatives' motion for a resolution, B 160, obliges the government to make the generational change in family businesses easier. This should be done by reintroducing the property tax rate by the end of the parliamentary year 2014-15. The Radical Left cannot support this motion for a resolution. The government repealed the property tax rule back in February. This was in order to avoid situations where profit tax could be avoided if the recipient lived abroad. Another argument for the abolition is that the asset tax rate was lower than we had assumed in the past than the trading value. In other words, the practice had developed in violation of the Bomb Tax Act, according to which the value should be added to the commercial value. Therefore, if the right to use assets corresponding to the property tax rate were to be reinstated, this should be done by law. In addition, I can say that the asset tax rate discriminated against taxpayers. The asset tax rate was an advantage for the inheritance and gift of unlisted shares, in particular shares in companies with large intangible assets which were not included in the valuation of the company's value. With the abolition of the property tax rate, these differences have now been eliminated, thus ensuring a more uniform taxation of all taxpayers of the real values of generational change. Overall, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526171215	Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Nadeem Farooq. There are no brief comments. I can then repeat that we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur from the SF, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526171235	Now it has been so well considered what this resolution is all about, but from a slightly different angle, one has to say, and I might as well trigger the tension immediately and say that the SF does not support the motion for a resolution. I should also say from the Enhedslisten that they do not. We, the SF, would like to commend the tax minister. We think it's high time we closed this tax gap, which is also unreasonable for all the companies that pay the much higher tax, and who can see that because of the previous practice, others have paid close to 0 per cent. Baby. We are also very surprised that a party such as DF takes a stand on the side of the big multinationals who may have a large part of their values in trademarks or other things that bring them under this scheme. We are not surprised that the resolution is supported by the Liberal Alliance. I think that is quite right, there is a very recognizable policy in this area. This also applies to the Left, although I do not think I was given a clear answer as to what would be done in this particular case if you were to sit in the tax minister's office. However, as I said, we are very pleased with the tax minister's initiative in this area and do not think it can be praised enough, which is why we do not, of course, support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526171405	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and thank you in particular for raising the veil of what Enhedslisten meant, so that I should not be in any doubt about it. I give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526171422	In the event of a generational change of family businesses, an inheritance tax must be imposed, and this is a problem for family businesses. There is suddenly capital to be taken out of the company and put into the treasury, although that capital could have done much more good in the company. It could have helped consolidate the company's economy so that it could resist any crises that might arise in the future, or it could have been used for investments that would create new jobs and lead to a wage increase for employees, etc. It is a lot of positive things, but then it cannot be done, because the money has to be in the treasury. That is why the Liberal Alliance opposes the imposition of inheritance tax, not only by companies but also by private individuals at all. But now we're talking about companies. We want the inheritance tax to be abolished for companies in the event of a generational change, and we would very much like the tax to be completely abolished for everyone. The asset tax rate had the practice that the inheritance tax on the generational change of enterprises became slightly more relaxed than it would otherwise have been. For us, as a party which believes that there should be no inheritance tax at all, a more lenient inheritance tax is, of course, better than a non-implicit inheritance tax. So we were in favour of the property tax rate, which made the inheritance tax more relaxed, and therefore we are opposed to its being abolished by the current government. That is why we can support this motion for a resolution which will return things to old practice with a more lenient tax. For us, this is a step on the way to abolish the inheritance tax altogether, and if there is a change of majority in the Folketing after the forthcoming elections, I expect the bourgeois parties to agree with each other to remove the inheritance tax for family-owned companies. Then this thing with the property tax rate has no practical function anymore, so it's superfluous. But this is all about what we are doing here and now, when there is a different majority, and that is where we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526171635	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. We shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526171645	At 1:00 a.m. 00.07 on 5 February, the Minister of Taxation suddenly decided on its own initiative to abolish the asset tax circular. This, of course, created an outcry and frustration among the 60,000 family-owned companies we have in Denmark. For one of the prerequisites for being able to operate in Denmark is that you can also change the generation, that you can keep the values in the company that you can then invest in. Unfortunately, I think that today's debate has shown that the fundamental differences between red parties and bourgeois parties are crucial when we talk about fiscal policy when we speak of envy when we speak of respect for the values created in private companies. The only thing we have heard the red parties talk about here today has been the closure of a so-called 'tax hole', which was 33 years old, from 1982, because it has been a little off in terms of how it has been possible to calculate the values when success has been achieved. After all, we are talking about 60 000 family-owned companies, which is the most dominant form of ownership in Denmark. Six out of ten private jobs are in family-owned companies. We are talking about a construction in which it is so that maintaining the removal of the property tax rate would mean that, by a generational change of success, the company's capital will be drained of approx. 40 per cent, which means that investment will be considerably reduced. We also know that this circular, which everything else just wants to raise the tax on business transfers, will hit 23,000 companies that are facing a change of ownership in the years to come, and also the approx. 300,000 employees in those companies. It seems very strange that criminal action against companies should be initiated in this way. In connection with the circular, you have always known that the so-called property tax rate could be used, which fortunately allowed companies to pay less in tax at the time of generational change. And it is a solution which has worked for 33 years and which has seemed impeccable. Thus, the asset tax rate has not only been a method of calculation, but it has also been a guarantee and a guarantee that the tax authorities did not calculate the tax in new ways and that the companies would not have to pay such a large part of their equity capital at a generational change. It looks as if you are trying to take advantage of the situation when there is a generational change, because even if the company is not sold and no new profits are generated, SKAT will in future go in and take a greater bite of the company's value. It is quite unreasonable, both from a moral point of view and from a very specific economic point of view. Everything else will make it harder for our family-owned companies to change the generation; it will make life more secure for them. They now have three options if they do not want to change the generation and, so to speak, burden the success and investment of the company: you can sell to a foreign company, and that can be good. In other cases, this will mean that the activities will be relocated, but it may well be positive. You can also sell to a fund it can be positive, but it can also be negative. In most cases, this is positive because they create greater values. Or you can choose to say that you shut down or just close your eyes and then hope it works out. All other things being equal, it is not a constructive way of taking our companies forward, since it is now the dominant form of ownership in Denmark. That is why it is regrettable. It is extremely regrettable that the government will be able to implement this before we hope to have a change of government. But then, if there is a bourgeois majority after the next elections, we must ensure that the circular is changed immediately, on day one. This is just one step on the way. The Conservative People's Party agrees with other bourgeois parties that we must remove the inheritance tax altogether. It is an unfair envy tax which has no purpose whatsoever. After all, it is companies which have already paid taxes and which employ thousands of people who pay income tax and all sorts of taxes. So it is a completely crazy situation that we have in Denmark that we burden companies two or three times, by paying taxes in advance and paying taxes for all sorts of other things, and then you also tax them by success when there is a generation change. So that inheritance tax should disappear completely. But in the first place we focus on having the property tax rate re-introduced, so that there will be security and security for the family-owned companies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172148	There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172154	We hear the rapporteur of the Conservatives say that this is quite unreasonable, and it is immoral. But is it not unreasonable and immoral to put some companies where perhaps the only difference in what they are doing is that some have intellectual property rights and others deal with something else, in such a diverse situation that some pay 10%, and others may pay virtually nothing in tax? Isn't that unreasonable? Isn't that immoral?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172226	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172228	After all, the asset tax rate has given companies security in the context of a generational change. This is probably also the reason why the SF tax ministers who have been sitting in recent years have not removed it either. It is a system that has existed since 1982 and there have been several SF tax ministers in the meantime. It has not been wanted to be removed because it has given a calm and security in connection with a generational change. I think that most people, if not on the extreme left, agree that it is good that we have family-owned companies in Denmark. And that is where we must ensure that they are given a proper opportunity to make a generational change and to maintain investment in those companies. This is not done by removing the security created by the property tax rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172306	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172308	It is, of course, a fundamental principle that we should like to treat people, but also companies, equally. That is precisely what has been the problem of the property tax rate, namely that it has not treated companies in the same way. There has been an enormous difference in what to pay, and I simply cannot understand that Conservatives think that is fair. And, of course, it's good that we have family-owned companies in this country, but there's got to be a reasonable amount of what people pay in taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172342	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172344	But there is the reasonableness in the fact that Danish companies pay billions of kroner. The family-owned companies account for most of the Danish employees. Six out of ten employees are employed in family-owned companies. They are financing the welfare society in which we live. If they are to continue to finance the welfare society in which we live, they must have proper conditions to invest and to develop them not to rip them off by double taxation, which is actually reflected in the abolition of wealth tax circles. For this means that the companies will pay • according to the tax minister himself • 1⁄2 billion. kr. extra; i.e. 500 million. kr. extra in taxes from the family-owned companies. After all, it is all other equal money that is taken away from investment in jobs and development in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172429	Thank you, sir. Brian Mikkelsen. There are no more brief comments and I do not see that anyone else has asked for the floor. This means that the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172447	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Tina Nedergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172511	Thank you very much. Greenland's Self-Government has requested that the family law legislation for Greenland be updated in parallel with the Danish one. As part of this update, the parental responsibility law is put into force for Greenland. In addition to the Parental Responsibility Act, this concerns the Child Abduction Act and the Hague Child Protection Convention Act. The entry into force also means that parents' right to reprove their children is abolished. I could have chosen on behalf of the Left to make a longer speech about the conditions for Greenlandic families and children, but we in the Left believe that when Greenland itself addresses itself and wants Danish legislative help to support changes in Greenland, we fully support it in the Left. In fact, we think this is the most respectful of the good cooperation in the Kingdom community. As the Conservative rapporteur is prevented from being present, I must also state, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172636	Thank you to Mrs Tina Nedergaard. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172642	Thank you. The Socialists also support this bill. It is clear that within the Kingdom Community we are listening to our partners, and when Greenland's autonomy has asked for adjustments to be made to the family law laws that apply in Greenland, we are of course doing so. This bill is part of two legal complexes, one of which is parental responsibility law, which is put into effect in Greenland. It is basically a question of the child's right to both parents and that it is not the parents who have the right to the child that the child should be involved, if there is a dispute over parental authority, that, as a rule, one should have joint custody, and that the association should also share it in cases where the child lives only with one parent. As a Social Democrat, I am very pleased that Greenland is now taking the initiative to abolish the right of rebuke against children. It was the Social Democrats who had the right of revulsion abolished here in Denmark back in the 1990s, and it is very good that this is now happening in Greenland too. The second legal complex to which the draft law relates is also about something that we Social Democrats have fought for and for which I am pleased that we have had a change in Denmark. And it is precisely about marriage between two persons of the same sex, that is, it has the same legal effect as a marriage made up of persons of different sexes. That is what we now want from Greenland to be the situation in Greenland, and we very much welcome it, as I have said. There are no more comments from the Socialist side, apart from the repetition of the fact that we naturally support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172835	Yes, thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen and move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172846	Thank you very much. I shall be brief: the Danish People's Party can support the bill. As has been mentioned, it is Greenland's wish that it be brought into line with Danish legislation, and we have a tradition that we follow such attitudes, and we will do so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172917	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. We move on to the next rapporteur, and it should be from the Radical Left, and that is Helle Løvgreen Mølvig. It's true that things are going fantastic fast, but we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526172933	Thank you for the floor, President. On the basis of Greenland's self-government's request for an update of the legislation on family law for Greenland, we shall deal here with L 122, which has been first dealt with in Inatsisartut. The bill contains a number of elements: a regulation on the entry into force for Greenland of the parental responsibility law, a regulation on the entry into force for Greenland of the law on the international enforcement of parental responsibility decisions, etc. and the Law amending the Law on Authorities for Greenland, the Law on the entry into force of Greenland, the Law on the Effects of Marriage, the Law on the Procedure for Greenland and the Criminal Code for Greenland. The entry into force of parental responsibility law requires amendments to be made, in particular to the law on the administration and administration of justice for Greenland, while the law on marriage between persons of the same sex requires amendments to the law on legal effects. Radical Left is very pleased that Greenlandic children now enjoy the same protection as Danish children, among others. by abolishing the right of rebuke and that the focus of all decisions on parental responsibility must respect the child's right to both parents. These are important steps in safeguarding children's rights. Another welcome element of the bill is that the right of two persons of the same sex to enter into marriage can now take the form of both a church and a civil marriage instead of as previously only as a registered partnership. Equalizing all people regardless of gender and sexual orientation is something that we radicals celebrate both in Denmark and Greenland, because it is about people. The Radical Left therefore supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526173109	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526173115	Thank you. In 1997 it was prohibited in Denmark to beat its children, and with the parental responsibility law of 2007, and especially with subsequent amendments to the same law, the children's health and well became the primary focus in matters of parental responsibility. And in 2012 the Folketing finally made the very important decision to allow two people of the same sex to marry on an equal footing with people of different genders. These are three very important events in Danish history and legislation, and I am very pleased that Greenland's Self-Government has requested that these laws also enter into force for the Greenlandic population. With the Parental Responsibility Act and especially after the changes in 2012 • the children's best interests and wishes have become the primary focus in matters of custody and residence, because the Parental Responsibility Act is just about the children's right to both their parents and not about the parents' right to their children. The law allows you to see things at children's height, and it is a focus that is very close to SF. In particular, we in the SF are very pleased that the entry into force of the law means that parents' right of reproof against their children is abolished. It became the final one in Denmark in 1997, as I mentioned earlier. All children have the right to a life of care and security. Corporal punishment is violence, and violence is traumatizing, a neglect of care and a breach of the relationship of trust between child and adult. In 1989 it became legal in Denmark as the first country in the world to enter into a registered partnership between people of the same sex. This was a major step in the right direction towards equality between heterosexuals and homosexuals. However, complete equality in marriage was only adopted in 2012. For many years, homosexuals, transsexuals and bisexuals had fought for the right to equal treatment and recognition on an equal footing with heterosexuals. Equality is not only a matter of man versus woman, but it is also the recognition of sexuality other than that which is predominantly. So, yes, the SF supports the proposal, but we would point out, as is also mentioned in the report, that it is unheard of that there is no Greenlandic version of the legislative notes. It must not happen in this way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526173402	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526173418	Thank you. Enhedslisten can also warmly support this bill. It is a clear improvement in the legal position of Greenlandic children, and it is also good that there are now rules on marriage between two people of the same sex in Greenland. The amendments are also made at the request of Naalakkersuisut, and the Inatsisartut Legislative Committee has unanimously proposed the bill for approval. After all, we still need the final formal procedure in Inatsisartut, but I wonder if everything is going to go quietly, according to the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs. And if there are any changes, we can have them taken into account if necessary. We have some questions that we have already sent them to the website and which we would like to have answered in the committee work. However, I would like to stress that we support the draft law, even in its present form, but we think in particular that the government should perhaps look at some of the comments and suggestions contained in the recommendation from the Inatsisartut Legislative Committee. That is, for example, the case. a proposal to amend the device, Section 32; 1, where the Legal Affairs Committee would like to add that the court in Greenland and the Rigsombudsman must, as far as possible, offer parents and children child-sacrificing advice or dispute mediation if there is disagreement about custody, the child's residence or association. This is something that has been omitted from the draft law, because the conditions in Greenland do not make it possible, but perhaps a wording could be made which justified the wish of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. There are also some provisions in section 35 of the Parental Responsibility Act which you would like to see incorporated. After all, it is about the child's right, if it is 10 years old, to request the State Administration to convene a meeting on parental responsibility, the child's residence or association, and it is about a provision that the parent with whom the child is resident may request the State Administration to convene the other parent for a meeting on the occasion of the meeting. It is also proposed to be incorporated in such a way that these rights, it can be said, should be granted as far as possible. Then there is an attitude on some provisions in Articles 3 and 17 of the Parental Responsibility Act about what to do if there is disagreement between parents about the child's place of residence. Here, too, the Greenlandic legislative committee has proposed amendments which are subject to the specific geographical and infrastructure conditions in Greenland. So we hope that the government will at least look at whether these points could be taken into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Of course, this presupposes that Mr Atatisisartut supports the proposals of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Then there is the question of when we can expect the Children's Act to come into force for Greenland. It would be a good thing if the Minister could report on it today, because one can see from the hearings and also from the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs that it is very important to them up there that the children's law can be put into effect very quickly in the case of Greenland. Then there is a discussion of principle at the end, which is slightly outside the scope of this bill, but which is worth noting a little. And it is again the Greenlandic legislative committee that has a proposal that instead of royal regulations, laws adopted here in the Danish Parliament should be used. The regulations have the disadvantage of not being translated into Greenlandic. But of course it should only be in those areas where it is the Folketing that has the right to make laws, that is to say that you then made some laws that only apply to Greenland, which would also make it easier to take account of particular Greenlandic conditions. It is certainly a view of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights which it would be very good to discuss. But, as I said, Enhedslisten supports the bill, but it is also reasonable that we should address the Greenlandic wishes to which I have just referred and make every effort to meet them as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526173840	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Then it's mr. Johan Lund Olsen as rapporteur for IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526173856	Thank you, President. Greenland's Self-Government has requested that the family law legislation for Greenland be updated. As part of this, it is proposed that parental responsibility legislation be put into effect for Greenland. These include the Parental Responsibility Act, the Child Abduction Act and the Hague Child Protection Convention Act. At the same time, it is proposed that legislation on marriage between two persons of the same sex be brought into force. The whole legislation has just been discussed in the Greenland Parliament, Mr Inatsisartut, and they have just voted, and they have adopted the legislative committee report before the actual legislative procedure can take place here in the Danish Parliament, and it is Inuit Ataqatigiit's expectation that the parties of the Danish Parliament and the Danish Government will be responsive to Greenland's wishes. First of all, from Inuit Ataqatigiit, we would like to point out that it is very glorious that these draft regulations and legislative initiatives have as a whole the intention to strengthen the legal certainty of children. The introduction of the law on parental responsibility in Greenland is a good initiative with the overall aim of improving the legal position of children, especially regarding custody, the child's residence, association, etc., while imposing a joint responsibility on parents for children. We believe in Inuit Ataqatigiit that it is extremely positive that children are given the opportunity to be heard and that the right of revenge is finally abolished in Greenland. This is a clear improvement that we can only warmly support. It strengthens the legal position of children and we think it is positive that the Hague Child Protection Convention also comes into force there. Finally, we find it extremely positive and quite appropriate that same-sex couples should be given the opportunity to marry in the church too. This is an important matter for Inuit Ataqatigiit, and we are pleased that what, at the beginning of the 1990s, on my party's initiative, i.e. Inuit Ataqatigiit's initiative, began with legislation on registered partnership, is finally ending up with a definite legislation that same-sex couples can also enter into marriage. All in all, therefore, these are positive steps and good legislative initiatives, but we believe that this can be done better, as Mr Inatsisartut, as well as other consultation parties, also points out. We therefore believe from Inuit Ataqatigiit that before the final adoption of the entire legislative package, the following requests from Greenland are also incorporated into the draft law, as set out in the report of the Inatsisartut Committee on Law: firstly, that it is ensured that child experts are present when the child is involved, so that the child gets the optimal framework and does not get caught up in the conflict between parents. It should also be a right, and not just an opportunity, for citizens to be offered mediation. In addition, there is a need for the rapid establishment of arrangements for association, and this should be part of the mediation of conflict. Secondly, the draft law also takes account of the geographical and infrastructure conditions in Greenland. In relation to the long distances in Greenland compared to the infrastructure and the high prices for air travel, the second parent should thus be given codecision when the child moves to another town or village in Greenland. Inuit Ataqatigiit welcomes the fact that a unanimous legislative committee in Inatsisartut also supports the adoption of the 1963 Children's Act, as we have pointed out, as the law is obsolete and, for example, has become obsolete. do not allow both parents of same-sex couples to be recognized, the so-called co-motherhood. We note that the law is updated repeatedly in Denmark so that it always reflects the current society, and we believe that it gives cause for concern and attention in Inatsisartut to ensure that laws dealt with in the Folketing are not unduly delayed and put Greenlandic citizens at a disadvantage due to a lack of focus on getting updated laws that concern Greenland. From Inuit Ataqatigiit here in the Danish Parliament we have urged the government to implement a wide-ranging update of Greenlandic family law in the time of my predecessors, i.e. Kuupik Kleist, Juliane Henningsen and Sara Olsvig. There are still a number of legislative changes to be made before the entire Greenlandic family law legislation is fully updated, and Inuit Ataqatigiit must therefore also request the Danish Government to speed up the general update as soon as possible. In conclusion, however, I would just like to appeal to the other parties in this Chamber to support the aforementioned conditions, which, if adopted, will strengthen the legal position of children in Greenland, not least the most vulnerable children in Greenlandic society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526174404	Thank you to the rapporteur from the IA. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. I apologize for skipping. I didn't realize it was Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526174422	The Liberal Alliance has nothing to object to this bill on updating the law on parental responsibility for Greenland with the aim of improving the legal position of children in matters of parental responsibility, the child's residence, association, etc. It becomes the essential element that the child has the right to both parents and not the opposite, namely the right of the parents to the child, just as parents have joint custody as a starting point. Of course, we are also in favour of the second part of the bill, which makes the amendments necessary to bring into force the rules on marriage between two persons of the same sex in Greenland, the so-called law on legal effects. Finally, we also consider it natural that Greenland, with the amendment of the law, can now be part of international cooperation on parental responsibility, so that child abduction can be prosecuted. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526174521	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526174528	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the discussion we have had on this draft law which provides the basis for the law on parental responsibility and the law on marriage between two persons of the same sex to be put into force for Greenland. Greenland's Landsting has had the bill for first reading and the Landsting's Legislative Committee has accepted it in its report. The Landsting has only the second reading of the bill later today, so the formal approval of the bill is unfortunately still lacking. In the report, the Committee on Legal Affairs calls on the government to make some changes to the draft parental responsibility scheme. I have only received the report this morning, so I have not had the opportunity to consider the request, but both the Ministry and I will, of course, endeavour to meet Greenland's wishes. That's it, sir. Finn Sørensen also mentioned it. I am pleased that with the bill we are taking another step towards bringing the family law legislation for Greenland into line with the legislation in Denmark. It is important that children in Greenland receive the same protection in matters of parental responsibility as children in Denmark. And Greenland's Landsting also agrees to support the introduction in Greenland of the possibility of marriage between two persons of the same sex. With these words, I would like to thank you for the debate. I look forward to the continued examination of the draft law in committee, and in this respect I naturally make myself available for possible questions to the draft law, including the written questions on translation, which Mr. Finn Sørensen has asked, as both he and Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen have said. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526174713	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526174730	The debate is open. It is first the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs who is given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526174752	With B 66 the Enhedslisten wants the government to assess the possibilities for a Danish version of the Swedish Samhall. The Enhedslisten would also like to have measured the effects of allowing municipalities to start and run social economic activities. I would like to start by stating that I fully agree that we must take social responsibility and help those who find it difficult to gain a foothold in the labour market. This is among other things. also because the government is focusing on improving the environment for private social economic companies, because companies are precisely helping to raise social responsibility, not least in terms of inclusion and the inclusive labour market. The Enhedslisten, like me, wants to promote social economic activity. I am therefore also very pleased with the constructive cooperation that we have and have enjoyed in initiating initiatives and creating better conditions for the functioning of social economic enterprises. This cooperation resulted last year in the adoption by the Danish Parliament of a special registration system, a system which would like to make more private companies think more socially. Social economic activity is intended to take place on market terms without public interference and for the social purpose as the main objective. It is therefore only private individuals who can register. What is proposed in the motion for a resolution is a publicly owned and run enterprise, and the government cannot support it. People with disabilities should not be employed in large public flex jobs. They have to go to the ordinary labour market. Companies, both public and private, must assume the responsibility of ensuring that there is room for all possible disabilities. Today, there is legislation, and through this there are also a number of tools that support the ability of people with disabilities to gain a foothold in the labour market. Initiatives and pools aimed at creating space for the physically and mentally handicapped in the labour market are also being continuously launched. The government has also recently carried out a major flex reform. The reform has meant that even those with very little ability to work now have the opportunity to enter the ordinary labour market. So this is certainly an area on which the government is focused. We also have private socio-economic companies which also help create jobs for particularly vulnerable groups. The Government is not aware of any information that proves that there should be a particularly urgent need to supplement the current initiatives with a government-municipal project similar to the Swedish Samhall. The Government therefore considers that there is no reason to go further into an examination of the possibility of setting up this type of company. The second part of the motion for a resolution deals with the effects of adjusting the rules governing social economic activities and allowing municipalities to operate social economic activities. I know that some municipalities have previously expressed the view that it is up to the municipality itself to set up social economic companies. It's not supposed to. In fact, municipalities must not engage in economic activities, at least not without a clear legal framework, but municipalities can enter into agreements with socio-economic companies to solve municipal tasks. There are also many other possibilities for the municipality to think socially, for example. the municipality may use social clauses in the procurement contracts. The law on registered social economic activities, adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing last year, came into force only five months ago, and it is still too early to measure the effects of the law. It is my clear conviction that private social economy companies are a good idea of solving some of the challenges that we face when people with disabilities are going into the labour market. Private socio-economic companies combine the best of two worlds: they create jobs and economic activity, but run for a social purpose. So socio-economic companies provide what is called for in the motion for a resolution, namely jobs for vulnerable groups. The Government will therefore not, as a general rule, extend the possibility for municipalities to operate economic activities, including social economic activities. The idea of a municipal social economic activity may be inconvenient, but the law on the registration of social economic enterprises is intended to help private social economic enterprises. The registration system and the right to market itself as a registered social economic activity in the new law are helping to raise awareness of the social economy sector and gives the registered social economic enterprises a very clear identity. There is a need to give companies time to establish themselves and profit from being able to call themselves a registered social economic company, but we also need to help to better dress the municipalities to spot potential socio-economic companies, because socio-economic companies are an important element in the work of getting vulnerable people into work. The municipalities are therefore a central partner and an important partner in the work to get more and strong social economic companies in Denmark. With the rules we have today and with the initiatives being put in place to help vulnerable people into the labour market or to maintain them in the labour market, I do not believe that there is a need for action such as Samhall or a separate need for municipalities to be given the opportunity to operate social economic activities. There is therefore no need to undertake a major study of Samhall or of the possibility of allowing municipalities to operate social economic activities. In view of this, the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175340	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175349	Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. I would like to sign up for the good cooperation we have to register social economic companies and get a law on this, just as we have also worked together to get the Growth Centre for Social Economic Enterprises and a Council for Social Economic Enterprises up and running. We really appreciate that in the Enhedslisten. But this proposal is not an attempt to undermine or in any way oppose what has happened. The Minister is looking for information I think the Minister said that he has no information that makes him think it should be done something extra in this area and for example. assess the Swedish experience. But we have approx. 15,000 on unemployment benefit, i.e. people who are searched for a flex job and who are looking for a flex job in vain. That is surely a very good argument for us at least to sit down and see if there could be some experience on the other side of the Sound that we could use here at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175508	Yes, but that is not an argument for implementing what Enhedslisten actually wants. It has also been seen in the light of what I have said, namely the initiatives that have been taken on a regular basis and the pool schemes that we also have. But I noticed that Mr. Finn Sørensen said that this proposal is not intended to undermine what we have set in motion, and I do not see it that way either. I'm gonna share sir. Finn Sørensen's wish and the whole philosophy and premise of social economic companies, and we have discussed this very, very many times in the past. However, as I also mentioned, it is not very long ago that we set up a registration system and set in motion the whole work on social economic companies, and frankly, I think it should be allowed to flourish, and that is something I know and Mr. Finn Sørensen would also like to continue to protect in cooperation with Enhedslisten, as we have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175605	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175608	Thank you. Now the Swedish scheme is also a form of social economic activity. It is just established on the initiative of the state. After all, it works according to the same principles that we have written into the excellent legislation we have made here at home, so that it fully meets the demands that the profits should be re-invested and that it should operate under market conditions. I do not really understand why there should be no need to examine the possibility of establishing such a thing or at least assessing the experience of it, and that is what we are proposing. As I said, there are 15 000 unemployment benefits, and that is a fairly constant figure that we have had for several years. So it is 15,000 people who are searched for flex jobs but who obviously cannot get a place in the labour market. After all, the government's own ambitions with the reforms that the government has made are that even more people should have an offer of flex jobs. So we just ask: where should the jobs for all those people come from, if not the state, the authorities, take some special initiatives? We don't think you should be so square. There you should look at whether there were any experiences we could use.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175724	It is always sensible to look for experience, to do research and to become wiser. Sir. Finn Sørensen says that to use Mr. Sørensen... Finn Sørensen's own words do not understand that it is not necessary to investigate this area, but as I also said, the starting point is that we disagree. We do not believe that it is a state or municipal task to do so, and again I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have just set in motion a great deal of work to support social economic companies from the private sector. I think this is a really, really sensible step, which we must keep an eye on and continue to develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175808	Thank you to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. And then it is the first speaker in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Kim Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526175817	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution before us, Enhedslisten wants to oblige the government to assess the possibilities and effects of establishing a Danish version of the Swedish Samhall and to assess the effects of allowing municipalities to start and run social economic companies. In addition, Enhedslisten suggests that the government should examine whether other target groups, for example: Some of the longterm unemployed or others on the edge of the labour market can benefit from the model. However, one must understand the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution so that the party really does not want an assessment from the government because it has already been assessed in the Enhedslisten. It has been concluded that the establishment of a Danish model of the Swedish Samhall is a good way of ensuring, according to Enhedslisten, that everyone has access to the labour market regardless of disability and disability. In the Left, we share the ambitions of the proposers that people, regardless of their disability and their ability to function, should be given the opportunity to enter the labour market. If the Left then cannot vote for B 66, it is due to two conditions. First of all, we do not believe that the State and the municipalities should run companies on market terms, whether they are social-economic or not. We leave that to the private sector. We are therefore in principle opposed to the model that Enhedslisten wants introduced in Denmark after the Swedish model. We believe that the Enhedslisten's proposal, like the registration system introduced by a majority of this Parliament in the last session of the Act on Registered Social Economic Enterprises, is to go far too far. This leads me to the second point, which means that the Left will vote against the Enhedslisten's proposal, should it come to that, namely the fact that we believe that today there are already a number of initiatives that support our common ambition that everyone should have access to the labour market regardless of disability or disability. I am thinking, of course, of municipal initiatives which support what we call the inclusive labour market. Let me just mention the flex-job scheme and the possibility of early retirement getting into jobs with wage subsidies, also known as spare jobs. In addition, there are a number of other initiatives, including private ones. Not only are there nearly 300 socio-economic enterprises in Denmark, but the socio-economic enterprises are also very different. The employees of these companies solve a great many different tasks in collaboration with private enterprises and municipal actors. And there are many good examples among the socio-economic companies of success in the work and of doing it very well. In addition, it should be noted that a number of private companies have already taken their own initiatives to recruit people with disabilities. The diversity, diversity which, in other words, characterises the market for social economic enterprises and the many private and already existing municipal and state initiatives and regulations, underlines that there is in fact no need to introduce an initiative such as that which Enhedslisten wants here, a model such as the one in Sweden. Against this background, the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that the same applies to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180225	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180229	Thank you for your comments. Is it not a rather strong conclusion to draw that Enhedslisten does not want to have the government's assessment and examination of this here, when that is actually what the proposal is about? The rapporteur may perhaps try to imagine that Enhedslisten would like to see such a case clarified from several sides and that we are sure that the government would be able to provide a great deal of expertise for an objective and sober analysis of this relationship. That is actually the purpose of the proposal. Then perhaps it is a little bit naughty to say that we are putting it forward, even though we do not want the assessment at all. It is true that we think it is a good idea; we are not hiding that. The rapporteur also lacks evidence of the need. Then I have to repeat what I asked the Minister. There are 15 000 people who are searched for flex jobs who cannot get it because there is no place in the labour market. Does the rapporteur not think that there is every reason why we should put our heads together and consider what other initiatives we could take in addition to those put into effect so that there could be room for those people in the labour market? And there will be more in the future with the reforms that have been made. That is the first question. The second question is: if the rapporteur thinks that such a thing is a bad idea, apparently on the basis of some ideological view that the public should not take the initiative on such a matter... how will the rapporteur create a place in the labour market for the many people with reduced working capacity?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180356	I do not think it is too much to say that the Enhedslisten with the resolution here has concluded what Enhedslisten thinks about Samhall and a similar model in Denmark. I also believe that the debate in this Chamber so far has already shown that this has been decided by the Enhedslisten. That is quite fine, but Enhedslisten must do so, but we do not have to follow suit because we are dealing with a proposal to have the matter examined. Now, in this matter, we are very much in agreement with the intentions, and we have also taken a large number of initiatives to bring people with disabilities into the labour market. There are a large number of municipal and state initiatives and there are private initiatives, and there are a great many socio-economic companies doing exemplary work. I also praised that in my rapporteur's speech. We believe that this is a sufficiently broad range of options for solving the tasks we have here. Moreover, as the government also mentioned, there are relatively new arrangements which, of course, must be allowed to be tested before they are evaluated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180515	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180518	I would ask the rapporteur to choose between the arguments put forward by the rapporteur. For if there really was a strong desire to create a place in the labour market for these people, one should also look aside from its square ideologies and say: Well then let us check whether there is anything to build on from Sweden. One argument, then, is that you want to. You just don't want that model because you disagree that the state has to take the initiative on something like that. So can we not sort out which argument the rapporteur chooses? Both are not of equal importance, if I may say so. After all, is it not just a purely ideological opposition to the state taking such initiatives as are described here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180606	As it says on the frieze out here in the Walking Hall, it is in here that each bird sings with its beak. There may be different arguments. In this context there are a number of arguments, I think, and they do not need to be ranked. We have a strong intention that people who have reduced their ability to function and are on the edge of the labour market at all should be offered opportunities to enter the labour market in some way or another in one role or another. We think there are a large number of good initiatives for this, and there are also initiatives which are so relatively new that there are no reasonable grounds for evaluating them at this stage. That is why we do not believe that a proposal such as the one before us is necessary or appropriate in a Danish context, and I have also argued for this in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180655	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526180708	For us Social Democrats it is important that every human being is allowed to participate in the community and realise its potential. This is true in society as such, and also in the labour market. It is important to give people the opportunity to support themselves and have something to stand up for in the morning. But it can be very difficult to enter the labour market if, for some reason, you do not fit in with the usual boxes. That is why we need a more inclusive labour market and social economic companies are a very important tool for achieving it. Because they can be the very thing about being an extra spacious alternative, and they can thus be a springboard into the more ordinary labour market for those people who would otherwise find it difficult to get a foothold. The motion for a resolution contains two parts. First, Enhedslisten suggests that an analysis be carried out of the Swedish state social economic company Samhall and assess whether it would make sense to do something similar in Denmark. Secondly, Enhedslisten proposes an analysis of what would happen if the municipalities were allowed to start and run social economic companies. As I said before, we in the Socialist Group fully share the intention of the proposers to make the labour market more inclusive. We agree on the objective, but we may disagree a little on the means. For us, it is very important that we do not, in our eagerness to create a more inclusive labour market, create a parallel labour market instead. In our view, it is crucial that it should be a merge, so that the result is a more inclusive labour market in all things. That's why we're working on several fronts. Firstly, we have implemented a reform of the flex-job scheme, in which, among other things, we have. opened up miniflex jobs in less than 10 hours a week. Fortunately, approx. 10,000 of them in the first year of reform. This is good news, because people with limited working capacity must have the opportunity to have an active working life in the ordinary labour market rather than a life on transfer income. Secondly, we have already taken concrete steps to strengthen socio-economic enterprises, which we believe play a key role in expanding our labour market so that more people can gain a foothold. I am thinking here of the registration system for social economic companies that we carried out last year together with the Enhedslisten. With the registration system, we give private social economic companies the opportunity to market themselves on their good social work. A little like the Ø label for organic products, municipalities and others must now be able to see clearly that here there is a product of a very special type. However, the law has only worked for five months, and therefore there is a need to give social economy companies peace to use their new exclusive right to call themselves socio-economic enterprises. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that we fully share the Enhedslisten's intention to make the labour market more inclusive, and we also agree that social economic companies have a huge potential for greater inclusiveness. However, in relation to the specific motion for a resolution, we do not agree that a state or local social economic activity is the right tool to use, and that is why we cannot support the proposal. And on behalf of the Radical Left rapporteur, I should like to say that the Radical Left cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181049	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181052	Thank you. I am pleased that we share the objective of creating a place in the labour market for people with reduced working capacity, but I did not really hear any arguments against the study proposed by us, nor really any arguments against the Swedish model as such with this Samhall, in other words a state social economic company. That is really what we are talking about. I didn't really hear any arguments, neither against our proposal... why should it be so bad to investigate it? So I did not really understand why the rapporteur does not support our proposal when we agree on the objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181136	Yes, there were two arguments, I would say to Mr. Finn Sørensen. The first is that we should not create a parallel labour market where people only come up with a track that is about being employed in municipal or state companies. We will ensure that through the social economy companies we get people who have little difficulty entering the ordinary labour market quietly. And the second argument is that we have, of course, taken a number of steps in recent years that have begun to work. Let us now see if we can get the socio-economic companies to take advantage of the opportunities that lie in it and see if we can get really, very many people into the labour market in this way. I believe that we are doing that, and that is why I think it is good and positive that we should give it some time and look at what the real effect of it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181219	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181222	Thank you. I believe that the rapporteur has misunderstood the proposal if he believes that it is about creating a parallel labour market. There is nothing in the proposal to suggest that the Swedish model is a parallel labour market. The Swedish State flex-job business operates under market conditions and those working in it are employed on ordinary terms, so I do not really understand how the rapporteur achieves this. However, even if the rapporteur is right about this, it should surely not prevent us from examining Swedish experience. So I actually still need an explanation why we shouldn't investigate it. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur: what expectations does the rapporteur have that the 15 000 unemployed flex workers we now have will be able to get to work quickly? Will the social economy companies that we have today, plus a little more, that can come to as a result of our legislation, be able to solve that problem in a short time or how long?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181322	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181324	I don't believe in snatching solutions. I believe that with the instruments we have now developed, we will in time ensure that these people who have difficulty entering the labour market can enter. That is why I do not think that we need to start carrying out major studies on Swedish models and other things either. I think we have found some good initiatives here in Denmark that we should try to develop so that people enter the labour market, and then we will have to see whether there is a need to make new initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181353	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181400	Thank you, President. This proposal to look at the situation of people at risk to see what it takes to get them into the labour market, I think is actually fine. There Enhedslisten then mentioned the Swedish model, where you have a state unit that acts as a kind of state company, where you then work to get people who have reduced working capacity to move on to the labour market. I don't suppose so, but sir. Finn Sørensen confirms that the point of that is that forever and ever they will remain in that system, if I have understood correctly. I can see that from Mr. Knox's point of view. Finn Sørensen that I understand. That's not what's meant to be. Having said that, however, I think that we can always look at the experience they have in other countries of moving people from a social company to the labour market. Here's Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen mentioned Sweden. But I also think we should look at how many social economic companies we actually have in Denmark. After all, we have a lot that has also been created under the rate pool, and some have been made permanent, among other things. The House of Venture, but also other companies. There we could ask the Minister to make an overview of how many social economic companies we actually have in Denmark, where they are located, how many have gone through the social economic companies in one year and how many have moved on from them and into a job. It would be good to get those numbers. We have, of course, seen some of the figures, but I think we should ask the Minister for a comprehensive overview of the state of the social economy in Denmark. Because they do a very good job, and they also get a great deal on the Danish labour market. So as to where we end up, I think that we in the Danish People's Party will say that this is a good idea, but that we should first of all look at what results we have achieved with the Danish social economic companies. If it is then a system that we can say we have to expand more than they have to be on the state pool, we could see if it is something that is so successful that we have to expand it, because we have some experience ourselves. We have socio-economic companies that do well and they have some experience. It may not be certain that we should go all the way to Sweden to find the experience, but I think we should talk about this in the committee how to knit together, and then we should ask the Minister to provide answers on how it looks in Denmark with regard to the results of social economic companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181656	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181700	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur for his unbiased and open-minded approach to the debate on this and for understanding the proposal in the spirit it has sent. I can also confirm, in response to the rapporteur's question, that one of the quality objectives of the Swedish company Samhall is indeed the ability to get people to other normal jobs, if that is to say, jobs which are not necessarily social economic enterprises but which are part of the broad, general labour market, which also shows that the purpose of this is not to create a parallel labour market in which people with reduced working capacity are isolated. You can also change your own rules, for example. the number of flex jobs to be employed in such a company. You can control it yourself. But I would just like to say to the rapporteur that one does not rule out the other. I think it is a good idea for us to have some more questions put to the development of social economic enterprises. The Enhedslisten is very much in favour of companies being developed, as described in the model we have in the bill, while at the same time looking at the other. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: why does the rapporteur contrast this? We could, of course, do both, in other words both ask the Minister a few questions, get the debate on the socio-economic companies we have made legislation on, and then look at the experience of Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181828	I don't know the Swedish system at all. It is not certain that the experience they have in Sweden can immediately fit into Denmark. That is why I think we should look at the experience we have gained in Denmark from the social economic companies that we have. We have quite a lot of things that do very well and get people to move on to the labour market. People have been in a social economic company for a while and get in touch with a company and come out and work in a company. I think we should look at the experiences we have, because we can certainly use them, because they fit Danish conditions. I do not wish to sign that Swedish experience can be transferred directly to the Danish system. I do not know the Swedish system that well, so I will neither say yes nor no to whether it fits exactly here. But I think we should have a talk in committee and see how we can find a solution to this and perhaps look at both.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181930	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526181934	Thank you. After all, there was a tiny opening at the end that you should look at both. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is not well aware that if we adopt this resolution, we do not sign that we should simply transfer the Swedish model to Denmark. One must examine what experience is in Sweden and what they could possibly be used for here in Denmark in order to create a place in the labour market for people with reduced working capacity. I just want to make sure that the rapporteur understands what the proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182003	That is quite clear. I wouldn't have thought that Mr. Finn Sørensen would say that we should only introduce the Swedish model, which costs the state 4.4 billion. skr., in Denmark. I never imagined that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182018	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Steen Gade as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182026	Thank you. First, there is a consideration of developments in the labour market. Now I hear that we are all saying that we need a spacious labour market, and that is a good thing. But developments in recent years, especially during the crisis, where it has accelerated, have actually led to our having a less inclusive labour market. That is the reality, and I think all parties are concerned that this has become the case. But it is a reality. My party has worked on that, as others have done, that we get a focus on the social economy companies as part of the answer to this, but that's not the whole answer. As the Minister also mentioned, it is also important that companies that are not socio-economic see themselves as part of taking the social responsibility of helping to create an inclusive labour market. But we just have to face up to the fact that the dynamic that, you might say, is driving in the private sector is a dynamic that has the risk of the labour market actually becoming less and less inclusive, and in this context I am very pleased with the things that we have achieved in this parliamentary term. We have focused on this, and this applies both to some of the flex jobs models, but also to a large extent to the registration of social economic companies. When it comes to this proposal from the Enhedslisten to carry out a study on the way things have been handled in Sweden with Samhall, I would say that I just think it is common sense and that I do not really understand why it should be rejected. I do not think there is any reason for this. As far as I can hear, there are no valid arguments which go in the direction of saying that, because we are launching such a study, it will mean that we are undermining some of what we are already doing. Why would you do that? In my opinion, the need is great and the risk of it growing is also present. So it can be said that it is important to look at all these experiences. As I understand the Swedish model, it is also that Samhall has some objectives for people to get out of it and has simply set percentages for how many people to make sure get out of jobs other than these. I don't know if that's the model, because it's a very large model, which in a way is something other than what we've done, if we put all our different systems together. But I think it is actually so positive a basic idea, and so I and my party do not suffer from the concern that, because it is public, it should be wrong. Why on earth would that be? If it is going to work on market conditions and it can do a job, then it has to do that job. Surely it cannot be right for ideology to be allowed to stand up for what I would call common sense. I think it is, in a sense, an interesting debate that we have, because it is a kind of illustration of whether we really think that society is working in the way it should when it comes to bringing everyone along. I don't think so. In fact, I believe that we have a society which, instead, is very much in the process of excluding groups which, in my view, should not be excluded, but which should be included and which should be allowed to be part of the solution to the problems of society, and that includes helping to deliver a job. It is a right, that is to say the right to deliver it, the right to participate, which we should be more concerned with giving citizens, rather than the tendency to exclude us. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182517	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182539	Firstly, I think it says something about Enhedslisten's relationship with the government that we need to table a motion for a resolution on the need to make an assessment and so on. etc. I mean, if this is important to the Enhedslisten, I am quite convinced that they had had more opportunities to get this through in different negotiations, in financial law negotiations and in all sorts of other places. It's kind of amazing that we need to spend our time in the Folketing on such small things here. It's not that the intention isn't good. You want to have a spacious labour market, and you want to have more people with you, etc. In fact, we share that approach in the Liberal Alliance. We do not have a particularly spacious labour market in Denmark, but we may not entirely agree on why we do not have it. We believe that it is a problem to have a high level of benefits and thus minimum wages, and thus a great many who have been pushed out of the labour market. Had they been born in other highly developed welfare societies, they would have been part of the labour market, but they are not in Denmark. Of course, we find this problematic. However, we cannot support this proposal put forward by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182700	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182703	It is just a question: in the light of the rapporteur's arguments, given that the Enhedslisten is making such a proposal at all, can we in the Danish Parliament be given a guarantee that if the Liberal Alliance becomes a parliamentary basis for a bourgeois government, we shall not see any proposals from the Liberal Alliance in this Chamber, because then the Liberal Alliance will have an opportunity, if anything is important for the Liberal Alliance, to get through it through its role as a parliamentary basis in the face of a bourgeois government? Can we have such a guarantee?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182737	I can guarantee that we will not table resolutions as small as this one. Of course, we will also be tabling motions for resolutions. It is well known, however, that the Enhedslisten is putting forward incredibly many motions for resolutions. We also have a right to do so, but we must also have some sort of self-examination from time to time when we ask: how small are we to table resolutions? And this really is a small one. And it cannot be that the relationship between the government and the Enhedslisten as a support party for the government is so bad that one has not been able to take this talk about such a study that one would like to have carried out in a different context than that it should go into the Chamber every time. That is our position. We are not going to table such small resolutions. In fact, we believe that the parliamentary time is too precious for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182829	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182831	Yeah, I guess I couldn't get a guarantee for it. I would just like to say one thing to the rapporteur: I do not think the rapporteur can find a single example of a representative of the Enhedslisten in this Chamber saying about another party's proposal that it is a small and indifferent proposal that should have been withheld. Our starting point for our debates in this Chamber is that all parties have their good reasons for putting forward the proposals they are making and that we must give them the necessary respect. That was just my comment to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182910	The Enhedslisten must be allowed to table all the resolutions they want at all. You have every right to do so. And I am also entitled to say that I think that one must also have a little self-examination sometimes and then, like, look at how big the proposals are. Well, this is a pretty small proposal, and if you think it's very important, you should be able to get through with it in other ways than this one. I am also entitled to take that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182940	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526182955	Thank you. I have to say that, for once, I am a little disappointed by the debate and the way this proposal has been dealt with. All the rapporteurs have been told that it is important for us to create a place in the labour market for people with reduced working capacity. And here comes a suggestion that we're doing an investigation, a study, but then there's all sorts of very thin arguments, I think, and I'm gonna deal with some of them later that you don't want to do that. I think that's a little sad, because what's the reality? The reality is, like the rapporteur for the SF, Mr. Steen Gade, said from up here, that in recent years, especially since the crisis broke through, the labour market has become less inclusive. It is for a whole lot of different reasons, but it is a fact that it is. It has become more difficult for people with reduced working capacity to get stuck in the labour market. So what are some very strong reasons for not even examining some experience from Sweden which suggests that we could do more and do better than we are doing today? The reality is that we have 15 000 people who are searched for a flex job and who very much want a flex job, but who cannot get it because those posts are simply not there. It is also a fact that the objectives of the reforms made by the government, together with the right wing, show that there is a goal that even more people should be in flex jobs instead of getting an early retirement pension. This also applies to long-term sickness and, in general, to a large number of people with reduced ability to work. Here the government has a clear objective, which we all agree on: to create a place in the labour market. We are talking about many thousands of people as a result of the reforms and the current situation we have here. Then it is strange that one then refuses to examine what experience there should be in order for us to do things better than we are doing today. And none of the rapporteurs have opposed the proposal, which has been able to provide any concrete indication of how to create jobs for the many people who would like to enter the labour market. There are actually some impressive results if you look at the Swedish Samhall. Twenty-one thousand people have been employed in Samhall in many different companies, 300, I think, across the country. And what is important to say to the arguments that come, that you do not want to create a parallel labour market, is: no, that is not how it works in Sweden either. The Swedish companies under Samhall must operate under normal market conditions. The employees are employed on ordinary terms and if they cannot sell the products they are now producing, then it does not work; then the companies cannot work. That is why we have accepted a very important ideological point from the bourgeois side and, indeed, from at least one half of the government I noticed certain nuances between the arguments of the Socialist rapporteur and the Minister's arguments. So what is the problem with some strong ideological views that we must not in any way disturb the market? There is no danger for the companies in relation to the principles described in Sweden and which, for that matter, are the same principles that we have in our social economy law at home. These are the same principles that work according to, the difference is that in Sweden, as part of all the efforts to create space for people with reduced working capacity, a state company has been set up, a government initiative has been taken. That's the only difference. So I guess I'm afraid that when we get to the bone, it might actually be an ideological resistance that appears in two areas. One is an ideological resistance to letting the public go in and act as the initiator in this area. Then it could be said that if it was not necessary, there was no reason to do so either. However, the fact is that when you look at the labour market, private companies are not very open to providing space for people with reduced working capacity. I'd like to rewind that to other discussions we've had. When Enhedslisten comes and proposes that we make some demands on private companies to give room to people with reduced working capacity, we are rejected. We have proposed something that could be called a whip and carrot method, namely to extend the State flex-job scheme so that it applies to the whole labour market. It is in all its simplicity that all companies have to pay into a common fund, and those companies that then lift social responsibility and hire people with reduced working capacity are rewarded with a grant or a deduction from their contributions to that fund. It is, of course, a very simple and indeed not very violent, compulsive method, but we have been repeatedly rejected there too. On the contrary, the flex-job system has actually deteriorated, so that in reality it has become more difficult for people with reduced working capacity to bite their way into the labour market. So, unfortunately, it all comes down to ideological opposition when you do not even want to take such a cautious and innocent and harmless step as to investigate: what exactly is the experience in Sweden with this? I find that very sad, because who is paying the price if we cannot provide some other good and effective means of creating a place in the labour market for the people we are talking about here? It is precisely the people who are going to pay the price, and I find that sad, since everyone says that they agree on the objective. But thank you for the positive and constructive comments made by the SF and the Danish People's Party. To the extent possible, we would like to work further with these parties on this, at least until we convince the others that there was perhaps something worth looking at here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526183657	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export, and if no one objects, it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526183717	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 28 May 2015. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526183745	Thank you. We have asked the government to consider that the City of Copenhagen has indicated that Islamic religions can construct a storm mosque in Copenhagen, and a unanimous committee in which the Danish People's Party is then not represented, I must say for the sake of good order that the Technical and Environment Committee in the City of Copenhagen has approved a new local plan that allows the construction of a new mosque at Dortheavej in Copenhagen. It is in the northwest district, and it is a building of a new mosque and a cultural centre. It has then been sent in consultation and the final proposal for a new local plan is expected to be presented to the citizens' representation in February 2016. We find in the Danish People's Party that Islamic religions have made themselves unlucky by making it very clear that in a number of areas they are in fact in opposition to Danish society, and we think that somewhere we should draw a line in the sand, in this case in relation to accepting that they are performing a storm mosque. We look forward to the Minister's reply and also to what the other parties have to say on that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526183851	Thank you to the rapporteur for the explanatory statement. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Relations for Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526183913	Thank you. The question is what attitude the government has towards the City of Copenhagen indicating that Islamic religions can build a Grand Mosque in Copenhagen. Specifically, on 16 March the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy decided that a new local plan should be drawn up to enable Islamic faiths to build a new mosque and cultural centre to replace the current mosque, which is housed in a closed commercial estate. In other words, the question affects the very core values and focal points of the society in which we live, namely the right to freedom of religion and the decentralization of power, namely local self-government. Paragraph 67 of the Constitution guarantees all citizens of Denmark the right to exercise their religion freely. Freedom of religion is one of the freedoms, one of democracy's focal points. It's with, for example. freedom of association, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression are values which we consider to be fundamental. These are values that we regard as natural, across political divisions and views, that all citizens of Denmark, including new citizens coming to Denmark, should have a share in, but, on the other hand, we also expect all citizens to join and respect. Religious freedom also includes the right to establish prayer houses. This does not mean, of course, that there is an unlimited freedom to set up undertakers at will. The construction of a prayer house such as: a mosque must take account of the legislation. The competence to decide on the construction of buildings lies with the municipalities, and the decisions are taken in accordance with the local plan and the rules of inter alia: the law of plans and the law of buildings. The specific decisions are therefore taken locally. But that does not mean, of course, that I do not have any views on the more general issue of the right to exercise its religion, and my position is quite clear: all citizens of Denmark, regardless of whether they are Christians, Muslims or Hindus, must have the opportunity to practice their religion under proper conditions. And when I say proper conditions, I mean conditions in which the faith communities can build and set up their bedrooms as they wish, in respect of the surrounding society, and where the framework makes believers who use the bedhouses want to be there. I will always defend freedom of religion in Denmark and the right to practise its religion and to establish prayer houses. But having said that, it is not a secret that I would like to see us, for example. will be able to gain a greater insight into the economy and organization of faith societies. Personally, I think it is quite right that we, as a society, should make certain demands for openness and have the opportunity to supervise religions in return for the various benefits that religions can also achieve. This is precisely one of the reasons why, as you know, the government has set up the Committee on Religious Affairs to draw up proposals for the overall regulation of the conditions of the communities of faith outside the church. The Committee shall, inter alia: make recommendations on what is needed to obtain the status of approved religions, how approval may be revoked and what rights and duties a religion will obtain by approval. It can, for example, be done. be in relation to tax matters and also marriage authorisation. However, the committee must also consider how greater openness can be created on the issues of faith societies, including understanding of their economic situation. This is a major task that we have entrusted to the committee, but it is a task that I think is extremely important. For too long, faith societies have had to live with a non-regulated legal state, and it is time for us to ensure that they are dealt with and that, at the same time, we ensure transparency and openness. I am, of course, very much looking forward to reading the committee's recommendations. I assume that the Danish People's Party has raised this question debate because they are critical of the construction of a new mosque. And in this respect, of course, I am fully aware of the concern that may be in relation to foreign radical ministers. Extremist foreign preachers, in my opinion, have nothing to do in Denmark. That is why I can only welcome the fact that the Minister for Justice has asked his office to draw up recommendations for new measures to prevent extremist preachers from travelling to Denmark. Nor should we be naïve or blind to the fact that there are also resident citizens, including Danish citizens, who are spreading a very conservative and sometimes radical interpretation of Islam. We must combat this, not by banning mosques, but by demanding respect for the fundamental values of Danish society. Denmark is a spacious and inclusive society where we have room for diversity across cultural, religious and sexual observation, and where citizens can exercise their faith and have their opinions in peace. At the same time, however, we must make it very clear that Denmark is a society with values and standards to which we must commit ourselves if we are to live our lives here. It is therefore also important that we take a general approach to the minority that challenges our democracy, law and order and that does not want to contribute to Danish society. I am very concerned about this work, and I am happy to leave the local decisions on building permits, etc. to the local authorities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526184516	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate, and the first is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526184530	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for your reply. It is true that we have a constitution and thank God for that which describes a wide range of freedoms, including freedom of religion, and we certainly want to protect that from the Danish People's Party. But it is true that if you look up in the constitution and read, for example. Citizens have the right to unite in society in order to worship God in the way that agrees with their beliefs, but nothing is taught or done that conflicts with morals or public order. ▪ The basic law describes how, of course, we have freedom of religion, has a number of freedoms, but that there are limits to what one can afford in the name of one's religion. If we now take a concrete approach to the Islamic religions, which are those who want to build the next Grand Mosque in Copenhagen, then there have been a number of examples of them stepping aside. There have been a large number of examples of them knowingly opposing Danish society, celebrating terrorism and refusing to distance themselves from terrorism. For example: Islamic religions did not want to distance themselves from the terrorist attacks in Paris. According to Imran Shah, who comes from Islamic religions, this is because it serves no purpose to distance himself. And one might then think that, in a Danish context, it does not make much sense to say that it makes no sense to distance ourselves from terrorism, but when one looks at what Islamic religions have done in the past, said and done, when there have been terrorist attacks in various places, it is, in fact, fine in the wake of it. Because after the terrorist attack of 11 September, the then Chief Imam of Islamic Religion would not mourn the victims because his tears were instead spent on the victims in Palestine, as he put it. In 1990 Islamic religions visited Omar Abdulrahman, who saw 3 years later in 1993 was convicted of planning the first terrorist attack against the World Trade Center. It was also Islamic religions that were behind the invitation to Bilal Philips if anyone remembers him who is in favour of homosexuals being murdered and women who want to divorce get beaten up until they change their mind. There has also been a representative of Islamic communities who has very clearly expressed sympathy for Osama bin Laden, for al-Qaeda and for the Taliban. These are just a few examples, and one might well think that some of this is contrary to the morale of the Danish People's Party. When it comes to disturbing public order, it can be pointed out as an example of the fact that, during the Muhammad crisis, when the Muhammad crisis was actually at its highest level, a delegation led by an imam of Islamic religions traveled to the Middle East to draw attention to Jyllands-Posten's drawings of the Prophet Muhammad. Subsequently, a large number of countries in the Middle East began a boycott of Danish goods, and many other things also happened. They were simply out to incite hatred of the society of which they claim to be part. So we have a number of examples of them inciting hatred against Denmark. Islamic religions have refused to denounce terrorist attacks. And, most recently, a memorial service has been organized for hundreds of people in connection with the funeral of the terrorist Omar El-Hussein, where among other things. as a tribute to the terrorist was shouted: God is great. Now some may say "But we wouldn't say that in the Danish People's Party " that you sometimes step a little side by side. But this suggests that you are consciously continuing in every possible way to oppose, that the Muslims we have in Denmark feel comfortable here; that they are slipping into society in a good and calm manner. In a wide range of areas, the fundamental values of Danish society are opposed. When you look at what the political reactions are like when Islamic religions stand aside, you can see that there is great condemnation from ministers, from various parties, etc. And what do we do? Well, then we say, if you want to build a Grand Mosque, then of course you must be allowed to do so. It doesn't add up. It simply does not add up. When you look at how much debate such a thing can create in public spaces, it is a little thought-provoking that there are in fact no specific guidelines in the building and planning legislation for the construction of prayer sites. In other words, they are subject to the general rules of the law of plans and, before a place of prayer can be built, there must be a local plan in which, of course, conditions can be laid down. However, as long as the general requirements of local plans and other legislation are met, private persons, companies or associations may build or rebuild buildings regardless of the purpose of their use. We in the Danish People's Party do not want there to be storm mosques in Denmark. There are other parties that think there should be, but in very special cases, in extreme cases, we should allow public opinion to go in and say: it does not work out, you have simply stepped aside so many times, for example. by paying tribute to terrorism and not wishing to distance itself from it. There you just have to be able to draw a line in the sand. That is why we have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out with the President's blessing. It is as follows: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament looks with concern at the fact that the City of Copenhagen has indicated that Islamic religions can perform the next Grand Mosque in Copenhagen. The Folketing considers it important to uphold freedom of religion, but at the same time the Folketing considers that Islamic religions repeatedly, for example. through their active participation in the Muhammed crisis and in their absence from terrorism, has demonstrated that their form of exercise of religious freedom also involves social disturbances. Against this background, and on the basis of the constitution's description that worship must not interfere with morality or public order, the government is required to investigate the possibility of preventing the conduct of religious and cultural buildings in exceptional cases. Similarly, the government is required to draw up proposals to ensure that religious and cultural buildings cannot be built in Denmark if these are financed by foreign organisations or states such as the United Kingdom. against democracy, associated with terrorist movements, etc. V 61).
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185145	Thank you to the rapporteur. Nobody wanted to speak. Then we go to the next rapporteur in the series of speeches, and that is Mr. Martin Geertsen as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185203	Thank you. I would therefore like to begin by admitting to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that the construction of a mosque is, by its very nature, of greater importance both religiously and symbolically than so many other buildings and local plan requests have. But it is actually the case that it is the municipalities and, in this case, the City of Copenhagen that are the relevant authority to authorise or refuse an application for the construction of a mosque. I would say that we in the Left do not have any current plans to pull the planning authority out of the hands of the Danish municipalities. Add to this that we also have freedom of religion in this country and that, as I know, there is already a mosque at the address in the northwest district of Copenhagen. The fact that it will then have a slightly different architectural appearance from the factory premises that are today does not, in fact, seem to me to be the biggest problem when we are discussing religious fundamentalism and radicalisation in this country. I am by no means enthusiastic about the operation of Islamic religions in every context. Their opposition to total and unequivocal rejection of the terrorist attack, from stoning, from arranged marriages and Mr. Martin Henriksen had several examples to add to the list is simply grotesque. I would go so far as to say that their role during the Mohammed crisis was really cowardly. So I would like them to devote more effort to a path that is in a better line with the values that we celebrate in Danish society and with the western values on which our society is based. I am in favour, as the Minister also said, of the need for more openness on the economy of faith societies. After all, the government itself has set up a committee to look, among other things, at the economy of the faith communities, and it would seem to me to be quite natural that the committee should also look at whether there should be new rules on transparency regarding the financing of mosques and churches and such things, and I hope that the Minister, as long as he is a minister, will look into it. For us, there is no doubt, and we would very much like to help fight religious radicalisation and extremism, and that is one of them. also why the Left together with among others. The Danish People's Party has put forward a wide range of proposals for new initiatives to combat radicalisation. I would just like to mention the ban on going to Syria and Iraq without permission and greater degrees of freedom to the municipalities to be able to say no to religious fundamentalism in municipal premises and buildings. So, as I see it, we have already made a number of fine proposals on this. In fact, I believe that this will be something more effective than the fact that we, as legislators, have to start taking a stand on individual buildings in the Danish municipalities. In my view, it is essential to maintain that there is the division of powers between the State and the municipality, that the municipality is primarily involved in planning legislation, the execution of it and has the planning competence in these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185557	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185610	Thank you for the floor. Well, I think we kind of know the song when we discuss something as basic as this. After all, it is always a question of weeping, that there is a certain development and that there is extremism and that there are some mosques from which hatred propaganda comes forth, and as soon as it comes to doing something concrete about it, one will not. You want to give a toast or a warning, but you don't really want to do anything about it. I just think that's weird when it comes to this problem. What we want to avoid is for these storm mosques to become hatcheries for the worst hate propaganda, which runs out of them and which will mean radicalisation in Denmark. That is what we want to avoid. We ourselves believe that we have the provisions of the Constitution. That is, in fact, why we have these constitutional provisions. That is what we have seen in order for the state to be able to crack down on it when situations arise where, among other things, there are situations. Storm mosques begin to act as a form arsenal of weapons against the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185719	I would like to begin by welcoming the fact that Mr. Christian Langballe thinks there's a line in the Left's policy, and then it's a line he doesn't like, is another talk. But there is one line, and that is because we have the basic approach to this, that it is not really the building, whatever architectural appearance it may have, that is the problem here. Well, there can be hatchery boxes in a basement room in the northwest district, and it can be in a factory building, or it can be in a beautifully decorated new storm mosque, but it can happen everywhere. That is also why we have together put forward a large number of proposals to combat radicalisation, and it is in each of our partners a recognition that it has nothing to do with construction. No. It has something to do with something quite different and more fundamental that you need to get in and get in touch with, and that is among other things. In the anti-radical plan which our two parties have put together, we believe that some of the answers should be found at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185819	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185822	Well, I don't think I said it's a straight line. I would perhaps rather talk about some sort of slinging course, where the way to doing something becomes very, very long. So I would urge the Left to think this through. I would also like to say that I myself, from the time I came into the Folketing, as one of the first questions I just asked about whether one could not examine these religions. After all, they are the ones from whom the money comes, who also decide the preaching work. Then, for example, the money comes from Qatar and the Muslim Brotherhood, it is they who decide the imam and the preaching that sounds in the mosque. This could also be said in connection with Islamic religions: where does the money actually come from, what does the propaganda emanate from that mosque really determine? That's what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185911	Then I shall confine myself to welcoming the fact that the Left's slinging course has remained stable over the years. Hopefully we can agree that far. I agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in that there's a need to look at the cash flows that are in this system. That is also why we expect part of the work that comes out of the committee which the government itself has set up, among other things. to look at the economic and cash flows in the faith communities. And as I said in my opening speech, we will be open to if there is a need to discuss a new set of rules on these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185949	Sir. Martin Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526185952	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It is true that the Danish People's Party, the Left and also a number of other parties have a number of excellent proposals on how to do something against radicalisation, and I would, of course, like to sign for that. I think it is a good thing that the Left also believes that there should be more openness and transparency in relation to the economy of faith societies. Then one must also assume that the work will continue if some of us in here hope so, in any case, that the majority will change after a parliamentary election. I would like to ask whether the Left too believes that there could be an idea in asking the relevant committee or a new committee to look at whether it was not possible to curb the flow of funds, in addition to creating transparency and so on. Today, it is already the case that in many cases we know very well where the money comes from for the mosque buildings in question, and that can be other things too. But couldn't you also ask the committee to look at whether you could create a set of rules that would make it possible for you and your mosque to be financed by, for example, Saudi Arabia, Qatar or anti-democracy organisations have collaborated with terrorist organisations, etc., so can this money supply to organizations and associations in Denmark be curbed?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190103	Well, I think we should take this at the right pace, and I think the right thing to say is that now some white or black smoke comes out of the government committee that has been set up and where, among other things, you are. looking at the financial and cash flows. And as I said just now, I am kind of open to having a talk with the Danish People's Party about what will happen next. But to start standing and pre-discounting what this committee brings out of conclusions, I will refrain from here. But let us talk openly about it if we have a majority to talk about it in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190141	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190144	That sounds good. But I just need to make sure of something. Is it to be understood that the Left will not go further than the Radical Left in this matter, because is it entirely in line with that? A little longer you'd like to go, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190202	I'm gonna say to Mr. Kim again. Martin Henriksen, first of all, what comes out of this committee of officials that I assume it is, plus that, secondly, I think we should remember that there can also be rules at international level, which one might just have to look at in the seams when it comes to cash flows. But I am kind of open to a dialogue with the Danish People's Party on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190229	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Ole Hækkerup as Social Democratic rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190236	Thank you, sir. President. It has to be said that the debate here has already been successful in the form of a Grand Mosque and freedom of religion. And before I say anything, I must remember to say that what I am saying is also on behalf of the Radical Left. As has already been shown, freedom of religion is one of the most fiercely fought out in the world, like freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of assembly. We must, of course, stick to these very values and, as a starting point, we must demand that this is something that everyone respects. After all, bedhouses, regardless of the beliefs to which they belong, are just as much in line with the freedom of religion as has already been shown in the Minister's speech; there are local plans to be made and there are laws to be respected. But the decision to do so is local. We must have insight into the economy, we must have insight into the organization of religions, and society must be able to demand openness and supervision. And as has already been shown in the previous rapporteur's speech, it is therefore good that we have set up the Committee on Religious Affairs to look at the overall regulation of religions outside the church. What it takes to be approved, how to withdraw approval, and how to make a sensible transparency • all the issues the committee should look at. The concern for the fact that foreign trainees can come to Denmark and promote radicalisation, as the Minister's speech also showed, must be taken into account as to how to prevent it. But we must also say that even in our own country there may be people who have a radical or extreme attitude. Moreover, they can have that for both political and religious reasons, and no matter what, it is our job to fight against it in terms of attitudes, but of course also to ensure that action is taken to ensure that there is something that threatens the values and the society in which we believe. In short, we must fight against those who are precisely fighting freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190438	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190441	Thank you. Again: Well, I think it is good that you have a committee that looks at whether you can have greater transparency, etc., and whether you can also withdraw the approval of religions. It has to be said that this is an exceptionally thorough committee, because we have been listening for some time now to the fact that there is a committee looking at it here, but the result must also be all the better. It is often up to the debate that this is just a building and that therefore it basically does not matter and that there could also be radicalisation elsewhere, and that is actually true. But I'd like to know if Mr. Ole Hækkerup does not recognise that symbols matter and that to some people they actually mean a great deal, and I assume that Mr. Ole Hækkerup agrees with me. - Sir... Ole Hækkerup did not see that it is actually a little inappropriate that we allow some to manifest in Danish society, where they cannot just make their statements and their statements etc. and specifically oppose the Danish democracy and fundamental values, but where they are also allowed to make a big break and can show that they are here and they are allowed to do what they want to do? Isn't that a problem, precisely because symbols actually matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190559	Thank you. I would have liked to have the question whether I could confirm that the Left slings, but let it be. To move on to the symbol issue, I would say that, yes, I believe in general terms that symbols mean something. But I also believe that fighting symbols can be a double-edged sword. Because if there is a phenomenon that you are worried about, and there are some symbols of the phenomenon that you just focus on fighting, then it is not the same as fighting the phenomenon; then you may even give the phenomenon you are against even stronger soil to grow in. That is why I do not think we should deal with symbols without considering the substance, and here, if I may be so free, I am in fact in agreement with Mr Beazley. Martin Geertsen. The most important thing, of course, is the position, which is why I think it is important that every time you think there is an attitude that is wrong, you come out and say what value you stand on. Because it is important that we, as a society and also in this Parliament, clearly mark what is our fundamental values.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190706	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190707	I hear it's such that sir... Ole Hækkerup agrees with me that symbols mean something, and he then concludes that we should not therefore fight against the symbols which in our view symbolise some of what we are concerned about, or which we are against on some stretches, in this case Islamism and radicalisation, and there I do not think it is really connected. For, of course, we must combat what is behind it; we must combat radicalisation and extremism and so on.; we must fight the Grimhøjmosque; we must fight Islamic religions and what they stand for; we must make action plans, etc.; we shall come after the preachers of hatred. We have to do that, but at the same time we also have to go for the symbols. Otherwise, we are, of course, helping to sanction their being allowed to build a position in society, and they already have a great position in society. Why help support this development? Why not try to go against that development?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190801	Yes, but my examination of what with the meaning of symbols was just as much an appeal for reflection, and my basic attitude is thus unchanged and the same, namely that the root is usually rarely the symbols, and that is what we need to address. I agree that there is extremism and that there is radicalisation and, moreover, that people find evidence of this kind of crazy attitude, both politically and religiously, and we as a society need to do something about this in a whole range of ways, including the attitudes we are putting forward. But just striking down on the symbols risks having the opposite effect; that was my basic point.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190842	Sir. Christian Langballe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190843	Well, a symbol always represents a content, that's the way it is. Anything else would be foolish. But what I would like to draw attention to is the fact that experience has been gained with mosques in other countries in the West, among others. in Great Britain, where propaganda emanates from many of these storm mosques, which are extremely western standards, among others. call for caliphate and many other cozy things. That's why I can't really understand it. We've had this discussion for so many years. I think it was in 2007 or 2008 when Channel 4 was doing a program called "Undercover Mosque," where you had gone in with hidden camera in these big mosques and had seen and documented what it was for a preaching that came out of there. I just don't think there's much between ascertaining what Islamic religions stand for and the propaganda that will undoubtedly come out of this mosque. I think we should take this much more seriously than the Socialists have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526190956	However, I think that we are taking it seriously when we say that we are setting up the Committee on Religious Affairs in order to find out precisely how we can ensure transparency. And what kind of insight we can get in the economy of the organization, etc.? It's exactly for things to come out into the light. But I think that I can agree with Mr Seligman. Langballe in the view that then there is a value struggle. There's what's going on, sir. Langballe might call a cultural struggle about how religion works in relation to democratic values. It happens in almost every country. This has also been seen throughout the Arab Spring. It is precisely in order to stand strong in the cultural struggle that we must declare what these are for clear values. I just think that by far, by far, most people who are in Denmark and who have a different religion than Mr. Langballe or me, in fact, is also in favour of their religion resting on democratic values, and that is why I am saying that it is also risking that banning symbols backfires because it gives those who are extremists an alibi to try to recruit wider to their extreme views.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191058	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191100	But what I just want to say is that I tried to ask the rapporteur about the fact that these big mosques are not just symbols. They're not just bricks. They represent a certain form of Islam that emanates from the religions; it is different species of Islam that express themselves here. There I would say that you say yes to a storm mosque, then it lies there and then it will exercise social control, and there will be a hate propaganda which none of us likes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191138	If things work out, as Mr. Knox said... Langballe fears, it is our job here to ensure that there is an effort both in the legislation and in the practice that implements the legislation and that intervenes in relation to social control. Secondly, it is our job here to ensure that we have the opportunity to gain insight into what is going on, and that is why we have exactly the committee of religion that the Minister underwent. That is why it is our job to say that we must keep an eye on extremists and radicalised tendencies, both those who come from outside, but also those who are here among us. But I just see that this is, first and foremost, something we do for the sake of the large majority that we support, namely those who are moderate and who want their religion to work on the basis of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191218	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Vigsø Bagge as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191229	I would point out that I am speaking on behalf of the SF's integration rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who unfortunately could not be here today. In the SF, we uphold freedom of religion and freedom of assembly, and we uphold freedom of expression and private property. Therefore, we basically believe that everyone should be allowed to practice their faith, whether they are Muslims, Buddhists or Christians or anything else that does not conflict with general public order. Practice of one's faith usually involves gathering in a room or building designed for the purpose, including, for example, a mosque, and in this respect it is important to take note of the fact that rabid attitudes and extremism are not found in bricks or in gibs walls. On the other hand, it is something that takes place inside people's heads. One cannot eliminate religious fanaticism or put an end to recruitment to the war in Syria by banning mosques, for example. In SF we believe in freedom of religion and in Denmark we have to give way to different religions. It is important that we respect each other and show tolerance, even if we do not share the same religious beliefs. We are very concerned about combating terrorism and believe that it is essential that we put an end to radicalisation in prisons or ghettos, for example. That is why we are prepared to provide the police with the necessary resources, training and equipment to prevent new terrorist attacks against Denmark. But it is a dead end if you think that you can prevent extremism and radicalisation by banning the physical construction of a mosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191353	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There's another name on the list, but it's Mr. Cole. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191414	The question of whether or not Islamic religions can build a mosque on Dorteavej in Copenhagen is a question that is decided in the City of Copenhagen and not here in the Danish Parliament. Enhedslisten's members of the Technical and Environment Committee in Copenhagen's Citizens' Representation have voted in favour of drawing up a local plan to allow the construction of the mosque. It's a matter of a local plan, and it doesn't belong here. We support the Enhedslisten about our Copenhagen colleagues' decision. We should like to make that clear now that the matter is on the agenda here. For the resolution is an expression of the freedom of religion enshrined in the Danish constitution and in the European Convention on Human Rights. The Enhedslisten wholeheartedly supports every man's right to practice his faith, just as we wholeheartedly support every man's right not to believe in any god. Within the world's great religions there are many attitudes. In Christianity there are progressive theologians from the point of view of Enhedslisten, and there are reactionary and right-wing theologians. This is also the case in Islam, where there are also different directions. And there we think it is very important that we keep that in mind and not beat all Muslims over a comb. For it is, fortunately, only a small minority of the inhabited Muslims who pay tribute to extremist attitudes and fundamentalist and reactionary attitudes, which we all in this Parliament agree to reject and warn against. To those who believe that fundamentalist or reactionary attitudes in Islam can be combated by preventing a Muslim congregation from building a mosque, I must just say, as other rapporteurs have also said: attitudes are not in buildings. Attitudes sit between the ears of people. Reactionary attitudes are not removed by removing bricks. Let me give you a thoughtful example just to draw up the positions of Enhedslisten in this matter. It is a purely theoretical example that some, for example, have. will propose the demolition of the two churches in the Viborg region, where Mr. Christian Langballe is a priest on the grounds that Mr. Christian Langballe makes some reactionary sermons. Of course, the Enhedslisten would never support such a proposal. It would be an encroachment on freedom of religion and we would fight it with beaks and claws. So, unfortunately, the Enhedslisten cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption here today either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191657	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191700	Of course, you can always discuss whether to take this kind of thing seriously. Sir. Finn Sørensen says that extremism must be combated, and now that we know that on several occasions Islamic religions have refused to denounce terrorist attacks, and now that we know that there have been people from Islamic faiths who have embraced • I was just about to say "Al-Qaeda, the Taliban, etc., how do you picture Mr. Finn Sørensen then tell us to go against them, and how does Mr. Sørensen picture it? Finn Sørensen, it is perceived in those environments that politicians disapprove of what they say and what they do, but when they come and ask for permission to build a Grand Mosque, they say the same politicians: yes, of course? How does Mr. Finn Sørensen that it's being perceived in those environments?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191749	I believe that those parts of the environments which, on these points, may share the justified criticism of Islamic religions by the Enhedslisten and many others, can well distinguish and can see that Enhedslisten is in favour of freedom of belief and that we therefore do not interfere with their ability to have a prayer house, while at the same time strongly rejecting reactionary attitudes. I would just like to say to the rapporteur that it is naive to think that it would change the attitudes that prevent them from building a mosque, because, as other rapporteurs have said, they will probably find another place where they can, if we may say so, cultivate highly critical attitudes towards society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191840	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191843	It is true that they will certainly still want their opinions, but we do not have to sanction their positions by allowing them to build a Grand Mosque in Copenhagen. That's a strange point of view. Now a number of storm mosques have already been allowed in Copenhagen, among others. Paid by Qatar associated with the Muslim Brotherhood, and I just want to know if Mr. Finn Sørensen is aware that it has made the efforts to radicalise much better. Perhaps I could be tempted to say that it is possible to discuss how the context is that there have been even more problems with extremism and radicalisation, as one has given in and one has given the possibility that more and more special considerations have been taken and that more and more Grand Mosques have been allowed, and that there has actually been an increase in radicalisation in Danish society. At any rate, it cannot be said that things have improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526191930	I have not heard anyone who has claimed here from the platform, nor in the Enhedslisten, that it should improve the fight against radicalisation. That is not what the debate is about at all. It is about freedom of religion and the opportunity for recognized religions to have a house of prayer. That is what this is all about. That's all there really is. Then it is also a question of someone, the Danish People's Party, who believes that it should improve the possibilities of combating extreme fundamentalist attitudes, preventing a religion from having a prayer house. It is just a huge misunderstanding, which we are glad that a large majority in the Folketing is not under.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192012	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192028	On behalf of Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll will read the following speech as rapporteur: As a starting point for today's debate, Dansk Folkeparti asks how the government feels about the fact that the City of Copenhagen has indicated that Islamic religions can construct a Grand Mosque in Copenhagen. We have received an answer to that, and I would like to add to that the comments of the Liberal Alliance. For us, basically, there is nothing unorthodox about wanting to build bedhouses. We often and gladly speak in favour of freedom for citizens and, of course, among the freedoms that we celebrate is also the hard-won freedom of religion. Does this mean that lawlessness rules and that anything can be built by anyone anywhere? Of course it doesn't. When you place small and large mosques, there are, just as when you place shopping malls, schools or new residential areas, a number of considerations to be taken into account. Fortunately, this type of consideration is very good at taking local, where municipal and local plans can ensure an appropriate city design, influence architectural choices and provide a framework for activities in different areas. There are many considerations to take and citizens' local representatives have mostly quite well managed them. Is that all there is to say in this case? No, sometimes it happens that the cash flows for construction or the actual use of them are hooked up with enemies of Danish democracy. Of course, in the Liberal Alliance, we have no tolerance for extremists who, with violence and oppression, are going to reverse our free society. We have therefore made it quite clear that we would like to see an investigation initiated by the Danish Attorney General into whether the Grimhøjmoskeen in Aarhus can be banned. Similarly, our anti-radicalism campaign, which we presented in March, shows that we are working to deprive religious religions working to promote extremism of their ability to obtain tax rebates. In this way we find the balance between freedom and anti-radicalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192245	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no conservative rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192300	Thank you, President. Thank you very much for a very good debate. I very much agree with many of the points made, both that society must include diversity across cultures and religious divisions, but also that we must stick to the core values on which our society is founded and ensure that they are passed on to new citizens. One of the values is freedom of religion. It is enshrined in the Constitution and constitutes one of the fundamental democratic values that we in Denmark protect and uphold. It gives citizens the right to unite in society and to practice their religion. This includes access to the establishment of bedrooms. The establishment of bedrooms is regulated on an equal footing with other buildings, in accordance with the rules of inter alia. The law of planning and building. It is the municipalities which have the local planning authority, and decisions on building permits are therefore also a municipal matter. This does not mean that there is no reason for the state to take an interest in what is going on in the faith communities. There is a great deal of that, and I believe that in today's Denmark we must be able to expect greater openness and transparency than is the case today. This is among other things. and therefore, which has been debated a number of times that the government has set up a legislative committee to make proposals for a comprehensive regulation of the conditions of religions outside the church. The government continues its efforts to promote respect for fundamental democratic values and to prevent radicalisation and extremism, and I look forward to continuing cooperation here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192432	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192436	Thank you. As I have already said, we in the Danish People's Party think it is a good thing that a committee has been set up to look at the economy of faith societies and also to look at the possibility of depriving them of their approval if they step next to it, and then there must be precise rules as to when to do so. I would really like to hear the Minister's views on the role of Islamic religions and the role of Islamic religions, and also whether the Minister believes that Islamic religions should be deprived of their approval as recognised religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192517	Well, the latter isn't possible. That is why we have just set up our committee, and I am, in fact, very pleased that we have set up our committee, because it is in all its simplicity both about the economy and also other things that regulate the communities of faith, but also about whether we should be able to deprive or give approval. Then the rapporteur asks me about my position on Islamic communities. Well, I don't really disagree with Mr. Knox. Mr Martin Henriksen, in his remarks, and not in his comments, as Mr Martin Henriksen has said. Martin Geertsen also mentioned about Islamic religions and the things they have said. I strongly reject their views. This is something that lies very, very far away from me on all kinds of leads and edges.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192612	Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192614	Thank you. The idea that a committee has been asked to look at, for example, whether a religion can be deprived of its approval as a recognised religion is surely that in a number of areas it is in opposition to Danish society, when we agree in this regard that it goes beyond the limit, when the Radical Left agrees with it, when the Danish People's Party agrees with it, when the Left and the Social Democrats agree with it, i.e. when there is a broad majority who agree that there is a religious community crossing the border, then the idea with that committee must be to say that in such cases we as a society must say that then it can no longer have the advantages and privileges of being a recognised religion. Is that not the idea of the committee set up by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192658	I mean, crossing the line is a lot of different things, and we have a lot of different boundaries. There are moral limits, there is also a subjective limit to what you think people can afford, and then there are legal limits. These are precisely the last things that the committee is going to look at, and again I would like to say that I am very pleased that the committee is looking at it, because it is due diligence to me. This is due diligence, and the reason why I am happy and proud of it is that the Danish People's Party has not managed to set up such a committee, even though it tried to do so, even though it tried to have some debates up through the 00s. But we did it precisely because it is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192739	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Thursday, 28 May 2015, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150526192758	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 27 May 2015, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
