ParlaMint-DK_20151215130040	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215130049	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215130056	Thank you. Sweden has decided to introduce identity checks on buses, trains and passenger ships and, at our direct request yesterday, the Swedish Government has indicated that the checks will enter into force on 4 January 2016. I informed the parliamentary political parties about this yesterday, and I thank you for a good meeting at short notice. Id-control sounds a bit like an administrative formality, but the consequences for Denmark can be very great. Firstly, it will pose major problems for ordinary citizens travelling back and forth in the Øresund region. The thousands of Danes and Swedes who are used to taking the trip by train or ferry know that today it is quite effortless, as if we were really one urban area. The flexibility of traffic will not be maintained if everyone is to be checked. It will be a big step back for the Øresund region. A Swedish requirement for ID control significantly alters the conditions for DSB's train operation over Øresund, and DSB can therefore choose to stop the train operation. I think it would be irresponsible not to try to remedy the situation. Therefore, the Minister of Transport is in dialogue with DSB to find a model for how DSB can handle the ID control, so we limit the damage effects. Secondly, this identity check will mean that refugees and migrants will be stopped on their journey to Sweden if they do not have the papers in order and thus end up in Denmark. The real purpose behind the scheme here is to cut off potential asylum seekers without papers the possibility of exercising their right of asylum in Sweden. But Denmark does not want to take the asylum seekers that the Swedes do not want. We do not want to adopt Swedish immigration policy, which is why we may also have to react at the border with Germany. After all, we have discussed border controls in the past. I have also pointed out in the past that border controls do not in themselves mean that we can reject asylum seekers. I know that some people in this Chamber believe that we should have introduced border controls a long time ago, but it is still my assessment that border controls in themselves would have led to more asylum seekers in Denmark and not fewer. With the new Swedish requirements, that picture changes. It may be necessary to introduce temporary border controls to Germany in order to ensure order and, as far as possible, to avoid chaos and turmoil if more refugees and migrants will stay in Denmark. It will, of course, cause discomfort in the border area, but it will be the consequence of the Swedish decision or at least it can be. The government is in dialogue with both Germany, Sweden and the European Commission, and we will continue to monitor closely the impact of the new Swedish initiatives on the flow of refugees through Denmark. The government is ready to act. We have a preparedness in Denmark so that we can quickly turn up border controls, but it is clear that the officers we put in for guarding the border cannot at the same time solve crimes and create security in the rest of the country. That is why, as in the past, our decision on border controls must be based on what is generally best for Denmark. The government is governed by one very general thing, namely that we must do what we can to keep the influx of asylum seekers under control for the sake of future integration efforts and simply to be able to take care of Denmark. Finally, I would like to point out that today's Question Time has been extended by a debate with the North Atlantic Members, which I have looked forward to very much. Yesterday we held a Kingdom meeting at Marienborg. I had a constructive discussion with the Layerman and with the President of the Naala Suisut. The meeting confirmed our good tradition of discussing problems openly and finding solutions together in the Kingdom Community, and I really think it is nice that, in the wake of the Kingdom meeting, we now have a question time for the Prime Minister with also the North Atlantic members.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215130533	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. It is true that we have our North Atlantic friends with us today. In the first round, the questioner and Prime Minister have both up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Then follow two rounds where the questioner and minister each time have 1 minute's speaking time. The first question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, Inuit Ataqatigiit
ParlaMint-DK_20151215130558	Thank you. Inuit Ataqatigiit Thank you very much. As the Prime Minister mentioned, it is the first question hour with the North Atlantic members and with the Left as a new government, so of course I have looked forward to this day. As you mentioned, a Kingdom meeting was held yesterday, where you among other things. discussed Greenland's independence. It was on the agenda. As has also been mentioned, there is a large political majority in Greenland that supports independence, but I also think we need to see it as a process, and that is why it is in fact the process that I think it is really interesting to look at. If we look at the facts about today's Greenland, we also know that there are enough challenges to point to. We know that we are financially at a challenging time when there is no balance between expenditure and revenue, and that will not improve in the coming years. We also know that unemployment is high and we need to increase the level of education in Greenland in general. So the situation requires political action, but it requires primarily political action in Greenland. Where I see there is a need for joint action and joint active action is on the issue of ensuring growth and business development initiatives. For we know that a bright future in Greenland is not only created by turning every penny. If we are to put an end to unemployment, it is about creating more jobs; it is about making the cake bigger, so to speak, so that we can ensure sustainable development in Greenland. It is not sustainable for us to save ourselves for growth and development. There are other actions to be taken. When you look at the government base, you see that there is nothing about the government's plans for business and growth initiatives, so I would really like to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about supporting business and growth initiatives in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215130755	Then it's the PM. It was nice to talk in the third person at the end. You don't use direct charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215130802	Thank you. I fully agree with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen when the wording that it requires political action first and foremost in Greenland is used. I think that is important to emphasise, and I am glad that is being made so clear here. For we have a system of self-government on Greenland's initiative, which is why it is Greenland itself that is responsible for adopting the structural reforms and other things that can balance Greenland's economy, including making its own proposals on how to promote business development. I would like to make it clear here what I did at yesterday's meeting and to the public following the meeting that we would like to see how I should put it in response to Greenlandic requests. However, it will not be the Danish government which, of its own motion, offers in with a growth strategy for Greenland. That would be to change the roles. It is Greenland which is responsible for dealing with the major problems that are in Greenland and which Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen recognises there too. It can be seen that the sustainability of the economy is not present, that there is a need for • and this has the economic council set up in Greenland, of course also invited into the Greenland political debate that decisions are made. If there is an articulate, well-founded argument and a request to Denmark for a different cooperation from what we have today, also to promote business and growth opportunities, then the government is in favour of discussing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215130951	Thank you. This is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215130954	Thank you very much. This is Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please. As far as the Kingdom is concerned, a report on industrial cooperation has been drawn up, and I hope that the government will follow up with some concrete initiatives. The second is an investment fund on which there is already a discussion, and I think that is where you can put some effort into the kingdom community. Regarding the EU ban on sealskins, I have sent a letter to the Prime Minister on 9 November, together with a large number of actors, among others. Prisoner Association, KNAPK. Unfortunately, since the EU ban came into force in 2009, we have seen a reduction in revenue of 350 million. kr., so it also has quite a great economic significance for Greenland. One of the things I think could be very interesting to hear is: how do you intend to help put pressure on the European Union to ensure that sales of sealskins in the European Union will increase in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131056	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131058	We are happy to cooperate closely with the Home Rule Government of Greenland to be, as it were, the extended arm, including in terms of safeguarding Greenland's international interests. After all, we are one kingdom, we conduct our foreign policy together. And if there are concrete proposals in Greenland as to what further initiatives we can take to promote Greenlandic export opportunities, then I make myself entirely available for it. This also applies to ensuring better access to European markets. As far as the investment fund is concerned, I have received no formal request from Greenland for any cooperation on an investment fund. That is why I must conclude by emphasising what I said earlier, namely that the gap in this is that we have Greenlandic autonomy. It is the responsible Greenlandic political forums that are responsible for balancing the Greenlandic economy. I fully agree that, alongside an agenda that deals with necessary structural reforms that are to be seen, there is also a dimension that is about creating a framework for future growth and prosperity. And if a Danish cooperation can contribute to this, we are open to it, but it must be based on a Greenlandic initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131228	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131232	Thank you very much. We know, of course, that in politics it is a matter of sitting at the negotiating table or at least being involved and being heard. Unfortunately, we have seen that there have been some misunderstandings about the financial law negotiations, and it also sees this in general terms in relation to the various negotiations that are taking place, in other words that we are not always heard. After all, we have a mandate like all other Members of Parliament in this Chamber and would also like to be heard when there are financial law negotiations. So I hope that some clear improvements will be made in the future. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's comment on that. Something else is in relation to the legislation in the European Union. There has just been a vote on the reservation and there has also been a discussion on whether Greenland and the Faroe Islands should be heard on this issue. However, we know that more and more legislation is being adopted in the European Union, and that is why I think it is appropriate to ask about the grey area as there is, in relation to the fact that so much Danish legislation is being adopted in the European Union: how do we ensure that Greenland is involved in the issues relating to Greenland in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131339	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131340	Thank you. It is true that part of what we deal with in the Danish Finance Act also has an implication in Greenland. This applies, among other things, to: the police agreement that has been concluded, but here it is also important to say that it is an agreement that provides the police with resources that must subsequently be dimensioned also in relation to the Greenland police. In relation to the second question, we in the government are in close and ongoing dialogue with the national leaders in both Thorshavn and Nuuk in foreign and security policy matters of importance to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We are also in relation to Denmark's participation in European cooperation. The natural partners of the government are the governments of Nuuk and Thorshavn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131441	Thank you. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131455	Thank you very much. Within the last year, the Arctic has meant more and more for global policy, and it is being discovered that the Arctic part of the world will be of great importance in the future, both in terms of the new shipping routes, but also, and above all, in terms of geopolitical interests. In connection with our North Pole Conference in Ilulissat on 28 May 2008, the Arctic Five countries, the United States, Canada, Norway, Russia and the Kingdom of Denmark, adopted the Ilulissat Declaration. The Ilulissat Declaration is based on the respect of the Convention on the Law of the Sea by all countries neighbouring the North Pole. Now the Kingdom of the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark have submitted a submission to the United Nations under the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and it will certainly take a number of years before a decision is taken on the continental shelf. But not least because it is a sub-mission, it means that as a Kingdom Community we have committed ourselves to ensuring that the collection of data and information on the socket is of great importance if we are to be able to stand strong in the negotiations with the countries with which we must compete. So I would like to know what the Prime Minister has to say about future efforts to strengthen the Commonwealth approach throughout the process. What can we count on are the government's priorities for Arctic territory, which must underpin our right to the continental shelf?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131638	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131640	Thank you. I fully share the way in which the challenges we face are described. It has a lot of facets. The opportunities created in the Arctic have a defence policy dimension, and the Minister for Defence is currently looking at how our efforts are dimensioned. And, of course, it also has a research dimension in relation to, among others. to support Danish requirements • that is, claims from the Kingdom. And research in the Arctic is I don't remember all the numbers in the head, but I think I know that our research efforts are in the order of 3⁄4 billion. kr. or something like that and represents a priority. After all, it is up to the ministers who each hold the responsibility for the matter, and also the authorities to whom we have delegated resources, to give the best possible priority to the use of those resources, also to support the position of the Kingdom of Denmark in relation to those territorial boundaries which now need to be clarified in the very long process to which the questioner has just referred.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131758	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131801	The Kingdom is a lot of things. The kingdom community is several cultures that have a co-existence. The Kingdom community has different languages that are spoken in each of our countries. We have one thing in common: that we all have to learn Danish at school. But not everyone masters Danish equally well, and many of us actually find it quite difficult when we come to Denmark and need to use the Danish language, in relation to fully, all the way through to be able to feel integrated and included in Danish society. Many of the Greenlanders who travel to Denmark are not all equally strong in the Danish language, but they really want to contribute to Danish society and be an active part of Danish society, both in terms of educational opportunities, job opportunities and the like. I know that the government places high demands on people who come from outside in relation to mastering the Danish language. Now that it is our own citizens who have difficulty with the language, what can the Prime Minister say to me about ensuring that that part of the population of the Kingdom community who do not master the language so well can feel better? Are there any initiatives we can look forward to from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131912	Here you go, Prime Minister. There's 1 minute response time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215131914	Thank you. May I not say first of all that the question of language competence cannot be seen apart from the whole question of how to organise your education sector, which is, of course, a reclaimed area; there is complete Greenlandic self-determination, and that is why it should also be a priority in Greenland, I would say. In relation to Greenlanders coming to Denmark, I am very aware that we have a task to do. And that is also the reason why we have secured an extraordinary allocation of 4 million in the context of the financial law negotiations and the rate-pool agreement. kr. in 2016 to the Greenlandic houses, just targeted a task to ensure that among other things. Young Greenlanders who come to Denmark to study can gain a foothold in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132009	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132012	Future industrial development in Greenland has a very important role to play in how Greenland's society will look in relation to economic development. Since the removal of the Raw Materials Act on 1 January 2010, this has also meant that our political priorities for the raw materials sector are very high. This must pave the way for a better economy, so that we also have a good socio-economic system along these lines. Greenland alone cannot develop the raw materials sector based on the small economy we have, and therefore Greenland must cooperate with others from outside. We would like to see Danish investments, and we would also like to see an active Danish government's clear position on a win-win gain in relation to this possible future business development. How does the Prime Minister feel about an active Danish government participation in investment in the mining of raw materials in Greenland in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132106	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132107	I take the view that investments to be made in Greenland must be commercially sustainable, and that is why we cannot ignore the fact that those who have the main responsibility for organising framework conditions in Greenland, which make it attractive to invest, are Greenland itself. Then I will just refer briefly to my answer before the honourable Member, because it is obvious that there are economic challenges in Greenland that need to be taken seriously. I would like to send the signal that, as this happens, the Danish Government will, of course, be open to discussing the part of ensuring a sustainable Greenlandic economy that is about business development and growth. We would like to cooperate on this, but in other words to emphasise that it must be commercially sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132213	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Prime Minister. The next question is Mr. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132229	Thank you. I would like to say to the Prime Minister: at yesterday's so-called Kingdom meeting, the Prime Minister proclaimed two rather fundamental views to the heads of government from the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which I should like to ask to be clarified so that we can have an honesty in the debate in the Prime Minister's own words. It was about the constitutional work. The Prime Minister stated that he distinguished between two different linguistic constitutional works and that he was in favour of a dialogue if it is a constitution that can be included in the constitution. If, on the other hand, the Constitution is understood to be valid for an independent state in the future, then he interprets it as a proposal for divorce. For me, it is unclear what the difference is between the two tracks that the Prime Minister spoke about yesterday, because the Constitution does not say anything about Faroese or Greenlandic constitutions, nor does it say anything about self-government or home-government arrangements. They are the result of a gradual or rapid political stance in the three countries. There is no doubt that in a Faroese constitution we will assert the Faroese people's right to self-determination and the right of the Faroese people to determine their own future in the world community. My question is therefore: does the government recognise the Faroese people's right to self-determination? And does the government recognise that under international law the Faroese people are a nation that has the right, in principle, to form its own state?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132412	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132414	Thank you for that, sir. Magni Arge. Well, already when you use the wording of the so-called Kingdom meeting Well, we didn't hold any so-called Kingdom meeting. We held a Kingdom meeting, and we did, because both the questioner and I live in what is called the Kingdom of Denmark; it consists of Denmark and the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Therefore, if you want to be part of the Kingdom community, you have to respect the foundations on which it stands, and that is the constitution. And it is not an elastic size which can only be subjected to an arbitrary political interpretation. It's setting its frames. That is why I appeal for honesty in the debate. For I fully recognise the right of the Faroese people to define themselves as an independent nation, if that is what they want. I fully acknowledge that. I'm sorry. For the sake of my children, I would then like to welcome the fact that we have adopted a law on dual citizenship, but otherwise I regret it. I fully acknowledge that in the Faroe Islands one can decide that one does not want to be part of the Commonwealth, and if one wants to do a piece of constitutional work which is intended for that purpose, then one has to say so, and then of course it has a consequence. Despite the fact that we have a system of self-government, there are a lot of tasks that we are doing under the auspices of the Kingdom Community, territorial surveillance and a number of other things. But of course you can go out that way if you want. On the other hand, if you want to create a constitution, a constitution, a stjórnarskipan, which respects that you remain part of the Kingdom community, then you just have to submit to the condition that then the constitution sets its framework. This is a condition for the questioner, as it is for the Danish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132614	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here you go, sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132617	I did not get an answer to the question, and my question was, of course, whether the government will recognise the Faroese people's right to self-determination. This does not mean that we are embarking on secession, either tomorrow or in 5 years or 10 years or 15 years, but it could do so. This simply means that, in relation to international law, you have the right to decide for yourself whether you want to go that way or not, and that is what I am asking, i.e. whether the government will recognise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132647	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132648	That's what I said. But that cannot be done without consistency, and that is where I am just appealing for both honesty and consistency to come into the debate. Because if you want to use a right to self-determination, I am not the one who stands in the way of it. I would regret it, I would be sorry, but of course I will not stand in the way of it. But then the consequences have to be clear. If, on the other hand, one basically recognises that one is part of the Kingdom, then one must respect that in the work of creating a Faroese constitution one must move within the framework of the Danish constitution. But we need to recognise the framework and they are not politically flexible. We ourselves, as a government, have come across the borders very briefly. In 2001 we had an ambition to give more Danes abroad the right to vote. We had the view that that constitution was then a little clingy on that point, because there has been a lot of water running into the stream. since the relevant provision was formulated. We had it explored through a specially created commission and then had to live with the limits set.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132811	Thank you, Prime Minister, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132812	I would just like to point out once again that the right of self-determination under international law applies to autonomous communities, as the Faroe Islands are. We are meeting all the criteria laid down by the United Nations in order to achieve this, and I believe that we must stick to that. Apart from that, I would also like to say that the right of self-determination also means a great deal to Danes; this was seen in the referendum here 14 days ago. So I think there are more people who understand our interest in the Faroese people also being given a right of self-determination. But I have another question, and that is about the limitations of foreign policy laws. Our trade relations have been created by history. It is a story that has led to Denmark becoming a member of the European Union while the Faroe Islands remained outside, a story that has led to trade between the Faroe Islands and Denmark being regulated by a trade agreement between the Faroe Islands and the European Union, and a story that led to Denmark participating in the biggest commercial aggression against the Faroe Islands since the Second World War two years ago. Can the Prime Minister not just acknowledge that we have to work in two different foreign policy tracks so that the Faroe Islands can defend and develop their commercial interests optimally, rather than maintaining an old imperialist rhetoric that Denmark is one nation and that you have one foreign policy and one voice?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132938	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215132940	No, I can't. For what makes us a community of kingdoms is that we are a community of kingdoms, and that is among other things. It is clear from the Constitution that we are pursuing a single foreign policy. Then we have worked to get it organized in a practical way that also enables us to deal with situations where there is a special Faroese, a special Greenlandic or a special Danish interest. This is among other things. Therefore, we have the Act of Power, which means that the Faroe Islands are able to conclude agreements on behalf of the Kingdom covering the Faroe Islands. I have just agreed with the lagman yesterday, and incidentally also with the Home Ruler of Greenland, that we are now setting up a work under the auspices of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs to look at how, in the practical work on this, we might make it more flexible than we have done historically, in the situations referred to as the DFG model, Denmark, as far as the Faroe Islands and Greenland are concerned, and that there can be a more flexible and practical organisation of the work there. I'm completely open to that. But the border is where we attack the Constitution. I know, sir. Magni Arge party basically disagrees that the Faroe Islands must be part of the Commonwealth and that it has been Tjóðveldi's battleground no. 1 and full respect for it. And if you decide in the Faroe Islands that you have to get out of the kingdom community, then also respect for it. But until that decision has been made, we have a kingdom community in Denmark, and we have one foreign policy. I am very open to conflicts of interest and they need to be dealt with, and we would like to see practical cooperation on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133127	Thank you to the Prime Minister and to the questioner. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale, Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133138	Thank you. It might be tempting to enter into that discussion, but I will refrain from doing so and move on to something more concrete. As the Prime Minister knows, most parties in the Faroe Islands have both an economic and ideological desire to phase out block subsidies gradually, slowly. That is why we are now in a process of doing so. We believe that this will benefit the Faroese economy, and it will also benefit the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, that is to say, the Kingdom Community. But in some areas responsibility lies only in Copenhagen. In some areas only the government can bear the costs and only the government can make the investments. This is true, for example. The whole area of justice, including prisons, is not good enough here. There is no prison in the Faroe Islands there is a small detention place for 14 people, which is used both for detention and for serving prison sentences and penalties in connection with fines. This means that very different prisoners sit together in the same place, both those who have committed crimes of morality and those who have broken the law on traffic. And women and men sit together. The arrest is an old military station up in the mountains. It lies there because it has to be difficult to access and it is difficult to access. There is no public transport and in winter there is a danger that it will be completely cut off from the outside world. Prisoners who are to sit for over 1 year are sent to Denmark to serve, and that feels for many as a double penalty. They are not given the opportunity to have family and friends visit, and their exit options are reduced compared to those of Danish prisoners. Now I know this is the area of the Minister of Justice, but the Prime Minister is responsible for the general principles of the Kingdom Community. And that is why I would like to ask whether one of these principles is that in common areas, which are thus applicable to the whole Kingdom community, we should have the same standard throughout the Kingdom community, that is to say that the state of law must be the same throughout the whole Kingdom community. And if the answer is yes, what does the Prime Minister think of the legal situation and conditions in this area being far worse in the Faroe Islands than they are in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133353	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133355	Well, of course, I think it is important that the conditions in the detention house in the Faroe Islands are satisfactory. I am fully aware of the need for initiatives, or I have become aware of them, and initiatives have also been taken to improve the situation. It is a process which is still under way and which, at the very practical level, means that some facilities have been moved around. Exercise rooms, which have been in barracks next door, have been moved into the prison, and a number of other things have been done which I do not have a sufficiently detailed insight into to be able to unfold here, but which, of course, cover up the fact that there is a readiness. I am also aware that, on the basis of a request from the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate for Criminal Welfare has entered into a dialogue with the Department of Criminal Welfare in the Faroe Islands to further identify these initiatives. So it's a field of attention if you can express it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133459	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133502	Thank you. I'm a little impressed by the Prime Minister's detailed knowledge of it, so I have to say, a training room has moved into the barracks. That is absolutely correct. But the place is still very cut off from the outside world, and Faroese prisoners are still sent away to Denmark to serve if they are to sit for more than 1 year. And there are still far fewer educational opportunities and leisure opportunities in the Faroe Islands than there are in Denmark. But if you look at these conditions in absolute terms, you can see that they are of course few people. There is room for 14 in the prison, and at the moment there are 6 Faroese long-term prisoners in Denmark, that is, prisoners who will be in prison for more than 1 year. These are not very large figures, in absolute figures, and there are some who have guessed that this is the reason for the government's unwillingness to make the necessary investments. Well, you might ask: Why build a big new store when you can't expect many customers in it? Does the Prime Minister think that this could explain why the necessary investments have not been made? And if so, does he think that this is an explanation that is good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133610	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133612	Well, I don't know if there's anything wrong with taking that view too. Well, I guess that's one of them. That is why we have a community of kingdoms; it is well in order to be able to solve common tasks in a better and more appropriate way than we could each. And the balance of what facilities you build up where and how decentralized you do it is, after all, one that we generally have. Well, there are also criminals on Bornholm who are serving in prisons on Zealand. That's why there's this balancing point, you might say, in relation to proximity to your original environment. I am fully aware that there is longer from the Faroe Islands to Sjælland than there is from Bornholm, although the journey time is approaching the same. But it also has to be a balance. I cannot go much deeper into it, and I must refer to the Minister of Justice. But I can just say, overall, that of course we want people who are serving, no matter where in the Kingdom community it is, to sit under proper conditions. Or perhaps I should moderate my Danish language here and say: under some uniform conditions. For it is not an independent objective of the government to provide a luxurious framework around serving, but a uniform framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133733	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133736	Now the Minister of Justice just walked in, I see. After all, an initiative has been taken by the Minister of Justice. A North Atlantic office has been set up in the Ministry of Justice, which I sign for, and the purpose of this initiative is, among other things, to: to ensure that the state of law and the conditions of the entire Kingdom community become the same, that is, for all three nations in the Kingdom community. I guess that should, I guess, cause a change in moving prisoners far away. Does the Prime Minister recognise that it is a double penalty if you are sent by plane to another country to serve, away from your family, away from your friends, that it is a penalty on top of the penalty, and that it makes the legal situation in the Faroe Islands in principle worse in this field than it is in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133822	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133826	If a yes to that question should lead me to say that we are now expanding a prison capacity in the Faroe Islands, which means that all Faroese criminals, no matter what crime they have committed, can serve in the Faroe Islands, then I cannot give a yes. I fully understand that it is also a dimension. It is also a dimension for Danes who, in principle, can have family abroad or in another part of the country. And that is why, of course, it is an element that I acknowledge and acknowledge but it cannot be the only thing that is governing. Because in this case, as in all sorts of others, we must also balance it against our resource consumption, security and other things. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Sjúrður Skaale has noted that the Minister of Justice has taken this initiative. I hope that will also be interpreted as an outstretched hand in ensuring that people who serve punishment in the Faroe Islands do so under reasonable and uniform conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133932	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Prime Minister. The next question is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215133943	Thank you. First of all, I have to say that I am somewhat surprised that the Prime Minister can almost present it as news that it may be necessary to introduce border controls. In other words, it even seems to me, very clearly, in relation to what is happening in the countries around us, that this possibility is, of course, something that every government in Denmark will have to work with. I assume that there is a clear readiness for action, the situation should arise. It was actually something quite different that I wanted to discuss with the Prime Minister today, where we also have the opportunity to take parts of the budget debate into the Parliamentary Assembly. And what I would like to ask is, of course, the savings that affect our pensioners, who need to live in a nursing home and who may only have their old-age pension and are therefore very dependent on being able to receive housing benefits, not only in order to pay their rent, but also in order to maintain a quality of life and a good everyday life. There the government, together with the Danish People's Party and others, has decided that the housing allowance should be reduced. I think it is important today in the Folketing to establish that the vast majority of pensioners in Denmark who receive housing benefits are pensioners who have a very low income and who are therefore dependent on housing benefits. And if we look at some of the specific facts, the Elders case has been very helpful in informing everyone, including the parties to the agreement, what consequences it may have. Older The case has set up a number of math examples showing how, for example, a pensioner couple can lose up to DKK 8,000. per year in housing benefits from the year 2020. My question to the Prime Minister of the country is really incredibly simple, namely whether today the Prime Minister will tell the Danish Parliament, the pensioners and others why it is reasonable that a pensioner couple in Denmark should lose up to DKK 8,000. per year in housing allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134153	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134155	Thank you. Now it wasn't about presenting news. It was a repetition of the orientation I gave to the party leaders yesterday at the meeting of the Prime Minister's Office, because I thought it was also relevant in relation to the rest of the Folketing. At yesterday's meeting, I also explained in detail that, of course, we have a readiness and have had it for a long time if we consider that it is now time to introduce border controls. We have also ensured, on the initiative of the government, that the Folketing has provided the necessary means to carry out identification checks. As far as the issue of housing benefits is concerned, I can fully confirm that it is an element of the Finance Act to make changes in our housing benefits. But it is equally obvious that a number of questions have subsequently been raised, which at the moment means that this matter is being clarified and clarified. Discussions are taking place, and that is why I think it would be premature to enter into a debate on this before the discussions that are now taking place between the parties that have concluded this agreement have been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134314	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134316	Premature? Excuse me, there's been a financial agreement. It's printed, it's published, the parties have agreed. And when we have a Question Time in the Danish Parliament and I ask myself down here and ask questions about it to the Prime Minister of the country, whom I assume is familiar with the calculations underlying the Finance Law Agreement concluded between the government and a number of other parties, the Prime Minister apologises, but it is almost comical that it is premature, that is to say, to relate to a Finance Law Agreement that has been concluded. I'm sorry, but it's getting close to the absurd. The Prime Minister of the country is the prime minister of a government which has therefore I have to repeat my question: Does the Prime Minister think it is reasonable that an ordinary pensioner couple in Denmark should lose up to DKr 8 000. a year as a result of the Financial Law Agreement which is
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134423	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134425	After all, I know what is being negotiated and what is not being negotiated. The situation is that an agreement has been reached on the basis of a proposal from the government, which quite rightly means that income from this housing benefit scheme is taken and that a number of the special favourable special rules which have been applied to the country's pensioners have been abolished. It was, moreover, an issue which the government put forward and which has changed in the process, which among other things. This has meant that a number of pensioners with a particularly weak economy are better off with what has been agreed than they were before. A number of questions have subsequently been raised which have given rise to the fact that the parties that have concluded the agreement are currently discussing these matters, assess the figures that have been put on the table and ensure that the agreement that has been concluded is now also wise. And it is, in fact, just in the light of that that I say quite quietly that then there is not much to be gained by using a lot of political energy to discuss something that is currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134536	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134538	Fortunately, there are two of us to decide what is the reason for using political energy on, because I am not quite sure that the matter is as the Prime Minister says here. I have the hearing from the Elders Case. It is dated November 25, 2015, and it is everything else some time ago, all the time we write on December 15 today. Elders The hearing answer of the case, which is rather thorough, already says on the first page: • The biggest fall in housing benefits is for residents of nursing homes. It's black and white. The fact that you are older in a foster home is rarely something you choose actively for yourself. It is something to be searched for, because of disability, old age or illness, that one can no longer survive in one's own home. When the Elders Case writes in black and white that those who are hit hardest and most by government policies are elderly people and residents of nursing homes, why does the government not respond? Why do we not react as Prime Minister and say: Hey, is this what we want? Is that fair? Is not the truth rather that it is only when there is a political debate that we are considering whether we might have gone too far and hit our pensioners too hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134650	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134652	After all, there can be no reason why, just because you live in a foster home rather than another rental home, it is in itself an indication that it is a problem that the accommodation allowance is adjusted. Well, it kind of depends on what your relationship is. If you have a very large economy and live in a foster home, that is no problem. Yeah, we're two about deciding, we are, and there I can get a lot of inspiration from people who've been in this place before. There are two of us to decide, and I would like to be accommodating in relation to the conduct of these questions. And I can confirm that we have reached an agreement with the aim of obtaining income in the area of housing benefits, because there are a number of preferential special rules that we have wanted to clean up. Moreover, this has been absolutely necessary because we took over an economy from the previous government, where a check-up showed that there were gaps and where, if we had not taken care of it, we would not have taken initiatives, we would have got into a carambola with EU rules per year. 1 January 2016. Therefore, there is also reason to pay tribute to all the parties covered by this agreement. But there is also reason to say, in the wake of that agreement, that some questions have been raised and some figures put on the table which make it relevant for those who have concluded this agreement to take a step back and ask: is it now unintentional? Is that what was supposed to happen? Are there any examples of family types that have a character that makes this need to be adjusted? It's just that. I do not want to stand here and have a big argument on the basis of an agreement that has been reached when we are currently discussing adjusting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134833	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134836	Why is the Prime Minister talking about an argument? Why doesn't the PM just answer my question? I ask whether it is reasonable for a retired couple in Denmark to lose about DKr 8 000. a year. You can just say yes or no to that. I guess you think that's fair. When I read the hearing of the Elders Case, dated 25 November, I can see that it is black and white, that what the Prime Minister is talking about is an adjustment. Of course you could call it that. I'd call it a saving. It's like the last time the Prime Minister and I were in the Assembly Hall, or I think it might have been the last time we heard the Prime Minister talking about a change of priority contribution. It's a saving. Of course, when you choose to take money from the area of housing benefits, you might call it adjustments, but for the individual pensioner it is not an adjustment, it is a saving, it is a small amount of available money, it is the less quality of everyday life that is a worse and worse condition for living the old age we want our elderly to be able to do. So may I just ask, when the Prime Minister stands today and says that you can live in a foster home and have a large economy: how many of the pensioners we have in Denmark who receive housing benefits, does the Prime Minister have a large economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134948	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215134950	Try to hear, quite calmly: just to take such a concept of retirement and say that a pensioner is a pensioner and per. definition is a weak person, is a wrong approach to it. There are pensioners with millions of assets. There is. There are pensioners who do not have much to do with the day and the road. This is, in fact, the group of pensioners for whom we, when we were last in government, did something special. In close cooperation with the government's parliamentary basis, the Danish People's Party, we introduced the elderly cheque, raised it in several rounds to hold hands under them. That is why it has also been a key feature of the discussions that took place during the financial legislation negotiations to achieve a balance in which we took a break with some of the particularly favourable rules in the area of housing benefits in order to get a revenue out, because, yes, we needed the money, among other things. because we took over an economy that was not linked, but at the same time doing it in a way that we could do something special for the particularly weak pensioners. This is also the reason why the first response to the Finance Act was extremely positive, with the dignity billion and with this element in the housing benefits package. Then there has been a debate where there has been a strong debate and where there have been some family examples, some type examples on the table, which have meant that those with whom we have concluded the agreement say that there are some preconditions that we are not sure about. Then it is the expression of ordinary decent political work, instead of just standing up and defending something, to show the graciousness to look at it again. That is what we are doing, and I look forward to coming back to defending and achieving goals and discussing for hours what is now the outcome of the discussions that are taking place with those with whom we have concluded the financial agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135149	The questioner, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135151	But for me, decent political work is just something else. It is that you do not sit and wait for good people from outside to come up with examples that show how hard your policy is. It is from the outset that the right priorities are being made, that one does not cut the housing allowance in order to spend money on a housing job scheme, that one does not send the bill to the country's pensioners and, yes, some of them are weak pensioners in order to give tax reliefs. That would be a decent, proper economic policy for me. ATP shows that more than 95 percent of the population live in the country. of the paid housing benefit goes to low or very low-income households • 95%. The pensioners the Prime Minister is talking about today are those with very, very high incomes. Would the Prime Minister not just confirm that the vast majority of the housing allowance we are discussing goes to ordinary pensioners, ordinary men and women who only have a folk pension and perhaps an ATP to live for, and not to pensioners with very, very high incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135300	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135303	Decency is said to be obvious if you are so arranged that you never need to adjust some things, but hit the spot every time, but I can't quite see that when I study the last 4 years of politics and all patch solutions and things like that. Our approach to this is that we are working seriously on things, and we need to make the economy stick together, among other things. because we took over an economy that was not linked, where we were not just at the edge, but above the edge, where, if we did nothing, we would have a structural deficit next year that would be contrary to EU rules. We have had to take this seriously, even in a situation in which we have had a desire to give priority to some things, among others. In other words, an extra billion kroner for the elderly, a dignified billion which allows municipalities to work on that front, with an investment in the hospital system of 2.4 billion. kr. to ensure that we can lift the Danish health care system. Yes, and then the money must be found, and yes, the government has proposed that a proceeds be taken in the area of housing benefits, because we have thought that this was a responsible way of doing so. It's been discussed, a deal has been made. Moreover, that agreement has led to a shift in the profile of our interventions, so that we have been particularly accommodating in relation to pensioners with a weak economy. Then a few questions have been raised, and we are looking at them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135432	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135434	But it's not gonna last. I have to say that. There is no point in hearing answers which are 20 days old and which, in black and white, say that it is pensioners in nursing homes who are particularly hard hit, that the Prime Minister of the country is standing and saying that this is something that has been discovered later. It's in the paper. Every minister is therefore obliged to read the answers to the questions put on the table. The government has known for a long time, and of course the parties to the agreement have also known that when you collect income from housing benefits, it can only mean one thing, namely that there are some older people who get a lower amount of available funds. If you are a government and think that this is a sensible, wise, responsible way of conducting politics, then you have to answer for it. I would just like to say clearly, as a Socialist, that I think it is a wrong priority that it is the country's pensioners who have to pay for a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135521	Thank you. The Prime Minister. And we have to keep to the speaking time, all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135525	Yes, yes, and I shall endeavour to do so, but it will only be repeated. It is clear that if you pay out a smaller subsidy to people than you did before, they will get less money. Well, I can figure that out. Just as they get less money, if you put up the tax, they get more if you give them tax cuts. But what is governing is what kind of situation they are left in. We have had our political ambition in a situation where the future of pensioners is becoming increasingly different, because that is what we are doing, among other things. well because we in Denmark have created occupational pension schemes and other things that make a number of people, even if they grow old, still have a good economy • that we have wanted to address it. We have done this in a way which, of course, we think is balanced, but also in a way that has subsequently raised a number of questions which have given rise to the desire of the parties that have concluded the agreement to look at it again. This is the process that is taking place, and when it is over, I am happy to stand up and defend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135625	Thank you. And now this question is over. Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135634	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction, but also for the willingness to respond to the last question. What I'm going to take up is something that may have been a little mysterious until now. But if anyone had forgotten, it is actually less than two weeks ago that we had a referendum in Denmark. We voted on whether to abolish the reservation of law and a very significant majority of the Danes said no. They wanted to retain the legal reservation, which we in the Danish People's Party think is quite fantastic and very, very positive. There are some effects of that. One of them is the negotiations that have been initiated on a parallel agreement on Europol. We think it is good to get started very quickly. Another discussion is about where the whole of European policy lands and how to take a stand and interpret that the Danish people have again, in a referendum, said no to the policy which the Prime Minister's party and several other parties in this Parliament have been behind. What I would specifically like the Prime Minister to do is to write in the agreement on the basis of which the referendum was held last Thursday that Denmark should be as close to the heart of the European Union as possible. But I can say that this was also the background to the 1992 referendum, to the referendum on the euro in 2000 and to the referendum on the legal reservation last Thursday. But those things have been defeated by the Danish people. Does it give rise to some reflections on whether Denmark has been placed in the wrong place in this objective? Or should we perhaps move away from being as close as possible to the core of a Union that must be increasingly narrow, as is stated in the EU's paragraph of purpose? I think it might be interesting to have the Prime Minister's answer in this first Question Time after the referendum and the Danes' answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135831	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215135832	Thank you. This may give me first of all reason to believe that the Danes have a different idea of what should be at the heart of European cooperation. It can then be a game of words, whether to apply to a core or whether to influence a core. I say this in this way because I believe that the gaps may in fact be smaller than they appear to be when I observe the public debate and try to interpret it. The government's policy is that we want to be close to the core. But the government's policy is also that we want the EU to not just Denmark in its relationship with the European Union, but the EU to take the lead on its people and focus more on what is the EU's strength, namely to ensure an internal market that creates freedom and prosperity, and to refrain from the tendencies that have been in developing the European Union as a social union. This is among other things. Therefore, that the Danish Government is also trying to play up what my own party and other parties have said clearly in the election campaign to influence the processes currently in the European Union because of the British situation, in order to achieve a better balance between freedom of movement and the possibility of protecting its own welfare system. So it's an offensive attempt to influence the core, and frankly: if the core was right otherwise, surely no one could want to be near it if one can express it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140001	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140003	My starting point is that the Danes have actually said no to being as close to the core as possible. In order to be as close to the core as possible, we must also rely on the abolition of reservations, for example. remove the reservation of the court. The majority of the Danish population said no to this. Therefore, I cannot understand why the Prime Minister does not reflect on this and say that when the Danes did not want to lift the reservations, i.e. the euro reservation in 2000 and the legal reservation in 2015, they do not want to get into the core of those areas. That is what the campaign was about, that is to say, bringing us to the heart of precisely those areas. Something else is in relation to Britain. To the extent that Britain does not succeed in moving the whole of the European Union and Britain, special rights will then be granted to itself, for example. In relation to migrant workers, is it not also an area in which it might be interesting for Denmark not to be as close to the heart of the European Union as possible, but to be closer to the rules that Britain might have negotiated home if necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140103	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140105	There is, after all, no reason to reflect so much on the Danes' vote in relation to the reservation of the law, because it is only necessary to base it on it. It is quite true that the Danes have said no to abolishing the reservation of law and replacing it with an opt-in system. That's the way it is. It will immediately have its full consequence, and that also means that we will be getting out of Europol unless we succeed in developing an alternative model. That's just the way it is. But that does not alter the fact that I and my party continue to have the right to have the view that it would have been better for Denmark if we had said yes. We stand by that and then we have full respect for the consequences of the vote. As I tried to say before, this government is also trying to pursue a balanced European policy, in which we remain committed to cooperation, because that is what we think is right, but it also affects cooperation, so it is more responsive to people's criticism, which is, of course, that the European Union has become too bureaucratic and interferes too much with small things and does not solve the major problems. It is in this context that the debate on Britain is also interesting, and it is the case that we are now trying to put our votes in the bowl of emphasis on the possibility of Britain becoming general and not just reserved for Britain.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140223	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and then it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140226	I am quite in favour of not over-interpreting the Danes' 'no' last Thursday. There are many reasons why we should vote 'no', just as there are many reasons why we should vote 'yes', and we must respect that. But we have to say that when you issue a referendum and you write in the preamble to your own agreement that it is a goal for the parties to the agreement that Denmark should be as close to the heart of the European Union as possible, and that it is among other things. That is why we are embarking on the abolition of the reservation, and if we do not get the support to abolish the reservation, then there is something that suggests that there is a majority in the Danish population who at least do not think it is good to be as close to the core as possible. At some point there must be a situation where there are more people in this Parliament who have an interest in bringing what is happening in here closer to what is the majority view of the Danish population. As we have seen in 1992, when we voted on the whole Union Treaty, in 1993, when the reservations came in, in 2000 with the euro and now in 2015, with the legal reservation, we get a "no' vote from the Danes every time the majority of the people of the European Parliament tries to put themselves through here in order to get as close to the core of EU cooperation as possible. I certainly hope that we will have some thoughts on how to get these differences between the people and the Folketing settled, because this is not healthy for our people's rule in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140349	Thank you. The Prime Minister to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140351	Yes, the first step towards bringing the differences to an end is basically to listen to the people, which is why we also respect the 'no' that has been given. Now I do not know how many people have voted on the preamble of the agreement, which is, moreover, a provisional agreement, which has now fallen away, because the purpose has been met, by the fact that we have had a referendum. I'm saying it as a little service information. This means that there is no paper with conciliation bindings in Denmark, using the wording that we should be as close to the core as possible. I think that is important to say just now. That does not upset the fact that you can find those words in the government base, because they express, you might say, the position of the government. However, it is important to say that there are no conciliation bindings that make it clear that the parties should go that way. I do not think that people have voted on the preamble. I believe that they have voted on what we voted on, and among other things. It was also done with the background blanket that what was the main objective, at least the main objective at issue, namely that we could stay in Europol, we could also achieve even if we voted 'no'. In any case, I would remind you of the debate that it was fairly clear. It must be put to the test now, and I hope, of course, that it will pass its test, otherwise we will have a new and completely different situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140505	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140513	Thank you. I would also like to ask about the very severe cuts that the government and the Danish People's Party are making in housing support for our folk pensioners. You have made an agreement which means that you cut hundreds of millions of dollars a year away in housing support for the elderly. I simply do not believe that the Prime Minister is surprised that it will of course have consequences for the elderly. I don't think that's surprising either, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. We know that the vast majority of this money goes to households, to people who have a very low income. I don't think it's strange that it's been filling up a lot lately. Nor do I find it strange that many people are shocked. It is simply hundreds of thousands of pensioners who are taking money out of their pockets who are losing money. These are some people for whom this is really felt. As I said, it is no wonder that many people are shocked. It's not just that I was about to say that people's pensions are being hit hard. These are also early retirement workers, for example. In other words, people with disabilities are some of those in our society who are already at risk. For me, it is incomprehensible that the government, but perhaps especially the Danish People's Party, will vote for this, perhaps not least when you even pass on the money to make it cheaper to drive large cars. But peace be with it; the political attitude can then be held. I find it hard to understand, but the political position can be taken. My question to the Prime Minister is actually very simple: Has the Left told the Danes at any time before the parliamentary elections that it was intended to reduce housing support for the Danish National Pensioners? Has the Danish People's Party ever told the Danes before the parliamentary elections that it was intended to reduce housing subsidies to the Danish National Pensioners? I'm asking because it's an important procedure and it's a major procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140724	Speaking time's over. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140727	I cannot answer for the Danish People's Party. I can answer for the government. We have, in fact, gone to elections and into the election campaign on an overall objective, which is that there must be order in the economy, that there must be sound public finances. We have had some very clear priorities: it must pay off to work, we must safeguard core welfare, we must get more people into the labour market and away from passive support, and we must create more private jobs. These are our priorities. We have had to put them through in a situation where we took over an economy that was not linked because we had not just budgeted to the edge but over the edge. It thus gives an obligation to act. I can completely confirm that in an area where we spend 10 billion. kr. A political agreement has been reached on a year, and where the amount has been growing over a number of years and has the prospect of further growth, where we reduce, but where, at the same time, we reduce, on certain lines, the rules are relaxed. This is among other things. the rules on self-payment and its limits, and this has meant that a number of disadvantaged pensioners with rental costs are better off with what has been agreed than with what was previously in force. I'll take responsibility for that. It will then be a repeat to say that, in the wake of this agreement, some questions have been raised and some examples have been presented which have given rise to the fact that those who have entered into the agreement with each other are now looking at it again. And there I think the best thing would be to see the outcome of those discussions before we can assess the final outcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140901	Thank you. Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215140903	I think that the many thousands of retired people, and it really is thousands and thousands of old people's pensioners sitting out there, who now have the prospect of having a lot of money cut away for some families thousands of dollars a year, are a little indifferent to the campaign talk. I think they would have liked to know before the parliamentary elections that the Left and the Danish People's Party had intended to cut down on some of the people in our society who already have the least to live for. I would like to ask my question again, and I know that the Prime Minister has, as it were, made himself a banner leader for the fact that questions really have to be answered during Question Time, so I hope that the Prime Minister will reply not to everything else, but just to what I am asking: Has the Left ever told the national pensionists in Denmark before the parliamentary elections that they were going to cut hundreds of millions of dollars away in their housing subsidies? It is money that can be felt, Prime Minister, because it is people who already have very little money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141018	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141020	We are completely on the goal of making an agreement. I gotta say, I'm gonna be a little bit more than that, I don't know, 'cause I'm gonna have to be my language. But the question of charging all pensioners as a grey, uniform and hugged mass is, moreover, based on a party that does not otherwise hold back when we talk about top tax and about going hard to people with fortunes and other things to be out sniffing populism, is not true. The agreement we have reached is an attempt to reach a balanced agreement in which, in an area which has been growing explosively, we are taking out an amount, now well, but after the negotiations that have been carried out, in a way that, among other things, is. This has meant that we have gradually relaxed the requirements for own-payment, which means that households that typically have the lowest incomes are better off. That is precisely the political objective that has been put into the negotiations, namely that those who are particularly weak and who are also pensioners have been taken into account. A number of questions have subsequently been raised with some examples of types which have led those who have concluded the agreement to consider it appropriate to give it a quality check, which in itself reveals that the ambition has not been with anyone politically to go so hard that future pensioners do not have an opportunity both to live in a place and to have a decent amount of money available.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141203	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141205	I think that everyone who has heard this debate is embarrassingly aware that the Prime Minister has not answered my question as to whether, at any time before the election of the Parliament, the Left told the country's national pensioners that their housing subsidies were being reduced. Now I've used two attempts to get the PM to answer, and I couldn't get an answer. Then I can answer for the PM, because the answer is no. At any rate, I have not managed to find any sign that the Prime Minister and the Left Party or, for that matter, the Danish People's Party before the parliamentary elections told me that it was intended to cut back on the housing support of the pensioners. I would say to the Prime Minister: the vast majority of the payments made to the pensioners are sent to people who have a low or very low income. I am absolutely convinced that the Prime Minister knew when this financial agreement was signed. Of course the PM knew.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141320	Thank you. Here you go. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141322	We have an excellent assurance of what I know, what I have said and what I have not said. Well, I can just say that you'll never see me doing things that I haven't created in an election campaign room to do. That is why we have not been out to say that we are protecting an area here, we are protecting an area here, we are protecting an area here. On the other hand, we have stated very clearly what our political priorities are. I agree to them. It is that it should pay better to work. We must have more private jobs; we must create a different balance between those who make a contribution and those who are on public support; we must create a different and better balance in our foreign policy; and we must have better core welfare. It is my job to try to put it through in a reality which, when we made a cashier's check after the election, showed that the accounts did not vote. Now I made myself merry about the cars before. Just a small example of that was that the previous government issued a guarantee that there was tax exemption for all electric cars in 2016. There wasn't a crown set off. It cost 0.5 billion. kr. Those are the terms. Responsibility obliges, and in this light we have put forward a financial law that is linked. It's crown to crown-funded. And yes, we have made changes in the area of housing benefits. We have tried to make it balanced, so we have taken special account of the weak. Now some questions have been raised, and we are looking at them, and when we have the final result, I am happy to have a new discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141454	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is Mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141507	Thank you. These questions often become something that is based on something very topical, so I would like to change my mind completely, given the opportunity to speak to the Prime Minister. We are now a long way from the implementation of the new primary school reform. We have been delighted by the Liberal Alliance that we have had the linking rate raised in relation to the free schools, because it was like there that we could do something in relation to an increased freedom of choice. But we still have a lot of focus on primary school. The most recent figures we have seen show that you can get through the Finnish primary school by 40%. less hours than it takes for a Danish student to get through primary school, while at the same time score higher grades, while at the same time professionalism is higher, discipline is better. While we know it and the figures for the difference between the Danish and Finnish primary schools become clearer and clearer, we choose and have chosen to go in the opposite direction. Is it not time for us to reopen the discussion on primary school and try to look at it, not from the quantitative point of view, but from the quality point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141628	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141630	At any rate, I fully agree that the debate on primary education that we are going to have must be a quality debate. All political debates should, of course, focus on that rather than only quantitatively measurable amounts of money and resource consumption and other things. I would say it was too early to launch a whole new public school debate on the need for a new reform. It's about making it work. I still subscribe to the view that with the reform we have made and with the broad political support there is, the framework has been created for us to make a good primary school better. This does not upset the fact that there are still challenges in providing that content out there. I also believe that there is an ongoing need to have close, locally anchored cooperation between school and civil society on how to make the best possible bridge building between school and leisure life. There is probably also a continuing need to develop new learning styles and learning methods, which means that within the framework of this school, where you are a little longer at school than you were in the past, you make sure that it is varied and challenging. There's plenty of need there. But I do not see any need for us to take such a • if that is what is in the question, I cannot quite see through • sweeping clashes with the school reform that has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141807	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141808	Yes, that is what lies in the question, and I think it is deeply relevant. Of course, the Prime Minister can draw on the smile tape to say: Well, time passes, and soon we will all be a hundred years old. Because there are actually children going to primary school today and there is searching away from primary school. There is a great deal of dissatisfaction with the track that has been laid out, namely that you think that if you just put several hours in the head of the children and keep them longer in school, it will probably solve itself. At the same time, we can also see that it is almost completely opposite in Finland, where 60% of people live. of the time spent by a Danish primary school student to complete a primary school education can come through with higher academic results. I am convinced, among other things, that this is because in Finland there are far greater demands for professionalism among teachers. I mean, you get a long-term education, a university-based teacher education. It's one place we could do something. This also leads to much greater respect for the role of teachers in school. For one thing, of course, we from the Liberal Alliance are very happy that we have raised the percentage of coupling and thus allowed for the possibility of opting out of primary school and opting for private school, but we actually have a great love for primary school, and we would like the vast majority of ourselves to choose to stay in primary school, but that is just not what is happening at the moment. That is why I think it is fair to start this discussion. We can see that what a broad majority in this Parliament has agreed to does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141947	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215141948	But I just think that, with all due respect, is a little too much a black-and-white assessment. I can easily think of criticisms in relation to the Danish primary school, both now and in the past, and I also think something about it. I have also engaged in making a small, modest contribution to making some product development at the edge of the primary school. But it just doesn't shake the fact that our students are getting better... let's just remind each other about it... and that today we're lifting the kids in the school more than they were 5, 10 years ago. So everything we do is not wrong. Having said that, I fully agree that it is not just a question of pouring in hours. Because if you pour in more bad hours, it might really be better not to. It is about spending the more time there is, in a proper way also based on the fact that the children are usually away from home for many hours in some form of institutionalization. So to have the framework used more offensively. Therefore, I think that the focus should be on how we develop products, how we train and train teachers, get new learning styles in, so that this room can be used better and more offensively than it is used today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142110	Thank you. Here you go, that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142112	This then brings me to perhaps the last and very concrete question, namely whether the Prime Minister was not prepared to look at the teacher's education as one place to start. Could we not soon do what is also being done in Sweden and Finland, i.e. provide a university-based teacher education so that professionalism can get up the path that respect for the teacher profession can come up that way, and that in that way, too, indirectly, it seems that at least in the Finnish schools can automatically get more discipline into the classroom, instead of we opting in such a strange way to say that we are just going to solve it by staying even more hours over there? It seems as if Finnish children survive that they are there for much less hours and then can spend time on something else in their spare time, which they choose for themselves, instead of having to be institutionalised at school. The problem is that if we don't solve this problem and just keep waiting, this is where we can really end up making class divisions in Danish society. For the well salvaged, the well-off always have the opportunity to choose something else, namely the private schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142224	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142225	I very much agree that the school will not be better than the teachers. Well, at least it's a place to start. Then there is also a parental responsibility in the back, but the teachers are central. That is also why steps have been taken and we did so most recently when we ourselves were in government to influence, you might say, the recruitment to our teacher seminars. And that is a discussion that I will certainly not withdraw from, even though I am not standing here today with some specific proposals. Being a teacher, I consider myself to be one of the most important and most important jobs you can have in a welfare society at all. That is why we owe it to us to make demands on who can be allowed to do that work. By the way, we also owe it to them to respect. We plan to enter an education debate this spring. We have among other things. a hanging party around the high schools, and maybe that's where it really starts. In other words, how do we organize our youth education in such a way that young people move on highly competently from our upper secondary educations and into, among other things, our upper secondary educations? the continuing training that it is to become a teacher? So I would like to have the opportunity to return to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142344	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142354	I understand that we have been, what should we say, many round the chain here today from problems with Sweden to pensioners and EU voting and primary school. So, 2015 has been a year, when the problems have almost been queued up I would actually say: where the crises have been queuing. So there hasn't been much good news, I think. But there was one, and it was in Paris on Saturday, where 196 countries signed a major global climate agreement. And even though I was completely underturned at home in the flat with the flu, I simply had to get up and walk out on the floor and take a walk all around the apartment for pure joy. After all, it is fantastic that we have seen for the first time that there is agreement that we have a situation in relation to global warming that is man-made. That's one. The second is that you have set very clear targets for the temperature not to rise more than 2 degrees, preferably not even 11⁄2 degrees. So that's the good news. I think most people thought that I could also understand from the government's climate minister that it was moving to be there and experience it and see a great community make an important decision for all of us. What is then, of course, the challenge is that the climate plans that have been submitted from the countries do not bring us to the goal as it stands today. There are many ways to go in and adjust your ambitions, and one of them, for example, is via energy taxes. So: How can we use energy taxes to support a process for renewable energy from black energy to green renewable energy? There is, of course, something paradoxical about the fact that the tax on electricity is so much higher than the tax on oil, and that is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister as the first question: has the government considered whether to go in and adjust the tax system to support this shift to renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142603	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142605	Thank you. Now I'm in comparison with Mr. Uffe Elbæk more such a knotman, so I didn't dance around the apartment; I just sent out a tweet. Because I kind of share the pleasure of • although I did give it a less physical expression that there was an agreement, but also the analysis of it. For it is nice that there is an agreement with a target of 2 degrees and ideally 11⁄2 degrees, but the contributions below create a temperature increase of 3 degrees. So we're nowhere near here. If it's a good deal anyway, it's because it's there. The entries cover 95 per cent. of CO2 in Kyoto. And it's not least good that this mechanism has been put in place to return every five years and have to make a further commitment. And Denmark, together with Europe, must also enter into that process. I am not going to stand here today and anticipate that in detail, but we will have to report that back together with the European Union. We have objectives in the European Union that are at the super-ambitious end, so we are in place in relation to the objectives that have been set in the first phase. But there has to be a constant obligation to develop this. Nor do I wish to say in advance that the arrangement of our tax structure cannot be put into effect. But to be perfectly honest, I do not have a detailed enough knowledge base on heat pumps up against other energy sources to say that I would be wise to say that we are doing just like this. I would say that the government is committed to delivering our share of the commitments that the European Union has undertaken. And then it is our job to do it in the wisest possible way, that is, with the highest level of cost-effectiveness.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142757	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142759	Well, a lot could be said for that. In any case, I would urge the government to be even more ambitious. When you see the financial act and the agreement, you see that it is clear that the ambition is being reduced in the green area, and that is, of course, the worst possible time to do so, because the whole world is actually now moving in a greener direction, and of course we must also be in it and even be a frontrunner. One of the places where more could be done in Denmark is with agriculture. We know that if we are to maintain 1.5 degrees as a target, we need to reduce CO2 of CO2 So how can it be that the government has freed agriculture when we talk about reduction plans? After all, the Government's own Climate Council has also recommended that agriculture be included in relation to future climate plans, not only because it is such a big emitter, but also because it is good socio-economic. So my question is actually: how can we involve agriculture in our ambitions to secure the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142923	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215142925	I think the short answer is that, among other things, it is. is because we need something to live on. The Danish food cluster is an extremely important business cluster, which secures us large export earnings, creates thousands of jobs and thus also the economy to run a welfare society, by the way, also a welfare society with high climate ambitions. That is why I would actually argue with that view and I would also like to do so when we discuss at some point in the European Union how countries are to deliver each their own contribution to achieving the EU's objectives, that there has to be some flexibility in it. Denmark delivers more than ours, you might say, relative share on a number of dimensions that are about climate adaptation and energy efficiency and renwables, and then we have an agriculture that takes up a lot. If we do not fight some kind of flexibility in which we can also reap the benefit of doing something extraordinary elsewhere, and then we continue to do so, for example. If we have room for farming, we will be squeezed on our economy as well. I guess that separates us. That is what I call green realism, which is the expression of the fact that not only can we pursue a 1.5-degree objective, but we must also open up the other eye and look at how the economy is connected while we pursue that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143053	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143054	After all, I think that the government should listen to its own climate council, which actually says that there is a good socio-economic aspect to including agriculture. If you look at the growth figures for organic agricultural products, their sale, their export, you can see that these are actually the areas where the growth curve goes highest and steepest. So I think that this must be another time when we are talking about it, because it is simply something where I do not understand the logic of the arguments. I would just like to end with a question from the Members of the Alternative about what they would like to ask the Prime Minister here today. It's becoming a tradition. Once again, it is the climate that is changing and they are asking the question: why is it that the tax on expensive cars is being reduced when we know that the expensive cars are some of the most polluting?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143146	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143149	But I do not think that this is the only way to establish that there is a direct and only direct link between the price of the car and pollution. One of the reasons for relaxing car taxes is, among other things, the fact that there is a need for a tax on cars. to ensure that the Danes may be able to renew the car park with a higher frequency than before, so we get a little newer cars. And whatever kind of car you might think of, it will be the case that the energy efficiency of the new models is at least in reality higher. It may then look lower when you calculate what has been of fitlife in the meantime by certain manufacturers, but otherwise it is a move towards a higher degree of energy efficiency and therefore also more climate friendliness. That is why I think it is good to make it possible also for ordinary families to acquire new middle-class cars as perhaps an alternative to an old, used ride, and that has this perspective too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143256	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. The next party leader in the line of questioning is sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143303	Thank you. I'm just like sir. Uffe Elbæk is a great believer in dancing through life, but I think the events of the last 24 hours have made it possible for me to do so at home in the future. But this should not be the subject of the discussion here. On the other hand, I understand that there are things the Prime Minister does not want to discuss while negotiations are going on elsewhere. I would just like to make the individual small initial comment as someone who has sat on the former government's Economics Committee, but actually also as someone who has just passed the primary school's graduation and therefore can simple mathematics • that if you save 300 million. kr. In the case of elderly people, taxes are reduced by more than 1.5 billion. kr., you shouldn't blame the previous government for the fact that there's a hole in the box. In other words, much more money is being distributed than is being taken from that proposal. And it's just simple math. But what I understand the Prime Minister wants to talk about is the serious refugee situation we are in, and I would like to do so. The Prime Minister has said before that history will judge us. I think that is actually right, and that is why it is important what we are doing. The Foreign Ministers of Italy and Germany have included a joint speech in a number of newspapers saying that this is not a dilemma between closed borders and reception, nor between prosperity and security and so solidarity with refugees. No, what we are facing is choosing to deal with the phenomenon or passively to suffer from it. Right now we are in a situation where I believe that the government's inaction means that we risk contributing to the end. For what is this situation that we have been brought into? Here, a few months after a parliamentary election, we are faced with historically poor relations with our neighbouring countries. There is apparently a very sparing dialogue with both Germany and Sweden, but on the other hand a prime minister who is busy handing out ear figs to the right and left: Greece is too bad, Germany is too bad, the Swedes are too bad. But now this is the Prime Minister's Question Time, which is why I would just like to ask: does the Prime Minister not think it was time to have a better dialogue with Denmark's neighbouring countries, if we do not have to suffer in passivity from the refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143513	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143515	We have a very good dialogue with Denmark's neighbouring countries, and I do not even recognise the picture that the questioner is drawing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143524	I'm glad. You could get a different impression when you follow the discussions and see how the government must rush down to the Parliamentary Chamber with legislation, because it has apparently not had a dialogue with Sweden about what is going on on those edges and how they could deal with the situation without compromising Ørestad cooperation. But then let us start from that, because the transporter's responsibility introduced with the emergency procedure last week must be such that the good dialogue we have with our neighbouring countries makes it possible today for the Prime Minister to promise that the new provisions provided for the country's Minister for Foreign Affairs will not be implemented until the Prime Minister has an understanding with Germany on how the affected operators are to deal with the situation on the border between Germany and Denmark. Will the Prime Minister today guarantee that it will not be implemented until there is an understanding with Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143621	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143624	I really do not quite understand the starting point of trying now to talk about Denmark as a country that has bad relations. In other words, we have an excellent dialogue with our neighbouring countries, but the prerequisite for us to be able to talk to them is, of course, that they should complete their own internal dialogue first. It is not the Danish Government that has conducted the Swedish immigration policy. Nor has the Danish Government, over a very, very short period of time, quite substantially adjusted Swedish immigration policy. Nor has it been the Danish Government which has spoken that in Sweden, in other words in the Swedish Parliament, the initiative has been taken to make sure that the rules are in place, which means that the Swedish initiative has now been adopted per year. On 4 January next year, the right of asylum will de facto undermine the right of asylum for all asylum seekers who have no order in their papers. It's not our responsibility. That is why we have not been able to have a dialogue on this until the Swedes have, as they have done, created and completed their own dialogue. By the way, we have to act on it. And we do so in a way that seeks to protect Danish interests, but also common interests. Because we have the common interest that the entire Øresund integration will not come into reverse. And it will if the Danish authorities, DSB as an operator, do not play a positive role. That's why we're going to do it. Can I then say that, in relation to the Danish-German border, we are going to deny ourselves the opportunity to do something unless we can get the same understanding with the German authorities as the one that the Swedes can have with us? Of course I can't do it. Of course I cannot do that, because that would be to bring Denmark a very vulnerable place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143814	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143816	After all, it is phenomenal first very laconic to say that we have a good dialogue with our neighbouring countries, and then to recognise that there was no prior dialogue with the Swedes because they obviously did not have the impression that they could achieve results through dialogue with Denmark. And that must be the responsibility of both sides. However, the crucial question for those who are now to be privatised, in the event of the use of the new provisions, is whether this can be done in accordance with conditions and whether the government will ensure that criminal liability for DSB, for shipping companies, for other carriers, bus drivers and others has not been imposed by the urgency procedure without telling them how they can act legally. If you do not have an agreement with the Germans on how the shipping companies, bus companies and rail companies should check ID on German grounds, then they cannot live up to the criminal liability they were given with the emergency procedure last week. That is why it is crucial whether the government is aware of its responsibilities and wants to ensure, through the good dialogue that we have with all our neighbouring countries, that we have an understanding with Germany before imposing criminal liability on some people without being able to indicate how they act legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143927	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215143929	It is such a strangely radical gene which makes you sit in a corner and isolate yourself and disclaim all the possibilities of action. In other words, it does not match my historical understanding of the Radical Left, which is otherwise trying to have all the possibilities open. I have to say that I am Prime Minister of Denmark, and I define it as my most important task to look after Denmark. The Swedish solutions cannot be developed dialogue-based between Denmark and Sweden. In other words, it is Sweden that has pursued the immigration policy that Sweden has pursued. We have not forced people to seek asylum in Sweden. Nor have we excluded anyone from seeking asylum in Denmark. It is a result of the policy that has been pursued. It is evidently also a policy that has consequences, which means that we are now acting in a way that has been decided upon and which then has some secondary consequences for Denmark ~ in two dimensions: firstly, it threatens integration into the Øresund region, which we have spent billions of dollars on getting to hang together. We are trying to counteract this by working together. Secondly, there is a risk of putting pressure on Denmark with illegal immigrants and other things, and that is where we have to reserve the opportunity to deal with it if that situation arises. And I can't stand by and deposit that opportunity to get things right with somebody else. I can't. At least I don't want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144054	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144101	Thank you. After all, it was a very positive result that we had in Paris last Saturday. There we could party, there were some who chose to dance, and at least some of us cheered. Now is the time to act, and I note that the Prime Minister says that the government is committed to delivering. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister agrees that the Paris Agreement states that countries must do more, even by 2020. How does that compare with the fact that, over the last six months, the government has already increased Denmark's expected climate pollution by 600,000 tonnes? How are you going to change that? That is one question. I also have another question. I know the PM can multi-bag, so the PM gets two questions. Is the Prime Minister aware that the fulfillment of the climate promises to 2030 in the Paris Agreement, which the European Union and we ourselves have signed up to, presupposes a significant effort in Denmark to reduce climate pollution, not only in the quota sector but also in agriculture? And when does the government intend to present a plan for this to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144208	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144210	Thank you. It is, of course, the case that the European Union has submitted some binding objectives in relation to the instrument that is now being developed and, before we take all the burdens on our shoulders, I would just like to remind you that, in the midst of this joy, the contributions made by the countries are insufficient to achieve the objective. This is not due to unambitious European objectives, it does not. This is because a number of countries do not yet deliver properly, and this also applies to some of the countries that are being applauded. In other words, the United States has been measured against Europe a bit backwards. After all, there will also be a debate in Europe on how Europe will then implement its overall commitment, and that is what I took a little bit of a break with Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Uffe Elbæk earlier by saying that Denmark must, of course, lift its share of the EU's commitments. We need to do this wisely, and it has been assessed from two points of view: that our contribution, together with the contributions of the other countries, must ensure that the EU can deliver what the EU has to deliver and that the composition of the Danish contribution must ensure that we get there as best we can. It has several dimensions. It is about delivering what we have to do, but it is also about, for example, delivering what we have to deliver. to ensure that we continue to have viable agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144337	Now the Prime Minister makes it almost such a discussion about what is really in the Paris Agreement. After all, the contribution made by the European Union is very clear: the other sectors, namely transport and agriculture, must also deliver. This also applies to Denmark. That is why it is worth noting that the Prime Minister is already in the process of overruling the Paris Agreement by saying that agriculture must now deliver? I have no doubt that the Left is Denmark's peasant party number one, and that is fair enough, but the point is that we have a Danish business community which also includes, I believe, 80 000 jobs, namely the green jobs that so much need an ambitious Danish government that goes one step ahead and constantly shows that this is where we are developing the new solutions. We do not do so if we are to deliver everywhere else, with the objectives to be set in the future, but not in agriculture and in the transport sector. So I would like to ask: is the Prime Minister already saying: okay, the green economy, we do not really care, we are concerned about agriculture, and then we will already give no thought to the promises we have made in Paris?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144443	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144445	I mean, sometimes I wonder why all debates just have to be pulled down and the fronts pulled up so hard. That's none of the things I'm saying at all. We are negotiating as part of Europe and Europe is taking on some obligations. We live up to them. The interior of Europe is also beautiful, Denmark is very nice. What we will achieve by 2020, Europe has committed itself to achieving by 2030, so we can be familiar with ourselves. We are also participating in the US initiative Mission Innovation and have committed ourselves to seeking to double with a benchmark called 15-16, and we have targeted investments in applied energy technology research. Then, in a dialogue with our European colleagues, we will have to find out how the Danish contribution to the European contribution is to be put together. All I am saying is that we will then try to do this in a way that makes our contribution so that we can also keep the lead and look ourselves in the eye, but also in a way that ensures that there is still room for our agriculture, which fills an extraordinary amount in the Danish economy held up to so many other European economies, and which, moreover, is characterised by being more gentle on the environment than it is in so many other countries. It's not about the Left being Denmark's peasant party. It is about more than 100,000 people who go to work every day in the food sector and who would be unemployed if there were no grain in the field if there were no pigs in the barn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144627	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144628	Thanks for hammering that point firmly. I just note that what Denmark has joined the European Union, i.e. among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. We have relaxed our climate ambitions. We have delivered 600,000 tonnes less than what we have committed ourselves to. And when we are going to deliver in 2020 and that is what you have to do in accordance with the Paris Agreement, Denmark must sign up for a target that is lower than what we have today. That's the point. Just before we went to Paris, where we had promised 475 million. kr. in climate assistance, the government made sure to send the very progressive signal that we would put climate aid down to 300 million. kr. So these are wrong signals in all directions. But it is also a little important to know whether the government intends to live up to the Paris Agreement. And I'm not as friendly as Mr. Simpson. Uffe Elbæk, who says we'll find out. I believe it is essential to deliver on what has been promised in Paris, namely that agriculture must also deliver on our climate targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144735	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144736	Of course, we are fulfilling our international obligations. With regard to international climate work, it is the case that it has been negotiated by Europe under one, and of course we are living up to it. I find it very difficult to understand this, but I also say this as a regular newspaper reader from the distance... how busy some have been during these climate negotiations trying to talk Denmark somewhere else than where Denmark stands. I just can't understand it. We are at every dimension a leading nation. We have some objectives where we now have a discussion about whether it is called 37 or 40, but which is, in any case, an ambitious ambition. We have committed ourselves to international cooperation, which is that we double the funds for our energy research in some targeted areas over the next five years, and then we need to spend a lot of time talking to each other about sending bad signals to others. This isn't my experience. It was also not my experience in the short time I admit that it was a short time I myself was at the conference in Paris that Denmark was seen as a foot-to-foot nation. That's not my impression at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144856	Thank you. We thank Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The next question in the line is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215144905	Thank you. I'm the last questioner in line, and then I hope I can bring something new, and I can. Because there is not a day when we do not see some very horrible pictures or hear about refugees and migrants who risk their lives or even lose it in their efforts to get to Europe. This year alone, more than 3,500 people have been drowned or reported missing in their attempts to reach Europe by sea, while the very weakest refugees are left in war zones or refugee camps without the possibility of getting away. They do not have the resources to pay a smuggler or they do not have the power to cross the sea. Today nearly 60 million people are fleeing, and nearly 12,000 Syrians are fleeing. We have not seen similar migrations since World War II. We can see the consequences of the violent flow of refugees and migrants, but we can also feel them. Since September, more than 80,000 people have travelled into Denmark, 80,000 people, and there is no indication that the number of people who come here is falling, on the contrary. That is why, in the Conservative People's Party, we also support the recent tightenings that have been made together, and we will continue to support them. We believe that more is needed if we are to find a viable solution that ensures the cohesion of our society and where we help those refugees who are most in need. That is why we proposed this weekend that we should start modernising the UN Convention on Refugees. It is not up to date, it undermines our society, it fails the weakest refugees, and it does not solve the challenges we face. Our aim is then to have a system where asylum can only be sought in Denmark from a refugee camp in the neighbourhood. If you go to Denmark bypass the camps and seek asylum, you are helped back to the official camps from which you can have your case dealt with. It may be that I have misread, but I understand that the Prime Minister's party does not quite like the idea. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he believes that the Danish austerity measures in the area of asylum are the only viable solution in the long term to deal with the refugee or migrant situation we are experiencing or whether one should try to look at the convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145124	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145125	This is certainly an interesting discussion, which I do not think should be rejected in advance either, but where one should also say quietly that it is probably not a discussion, even if we initiate it on Danish initiative, which in the very short space of time will help to deal with the problems we are in the middle of. Let's just take one thing. The idea presented here will, of course, be based on the assumption that one could then only come to, for example. Denmark, if you searched from a refugee camp and there was no other way into the country. Because if we put up the system and at the same time we have the hollow Europe that we have at the moment, then we will just have a double influx of refugees, both those who searched from the camps and those who find their way. That is why we have to make our priorities clear in some way, and right now, at this stage in world history, I think we should use our energy to try to pressure ourselves and Europe to deliver solutions that work. It starts with the external borders. If we do not get the external borders under control, if we can simply go ashore in Greece and defil through Europe, then we can have quite a thoughtful idea of how this would ideally be resolved, but then we will not get anything done about the problems. So it is not, in fact, to reject a discussion. I fully agree that the conventions have been drawn up in a different time and that at some point the world community will also have to reflect on what experience we have gained in this current crisis we are in. It just doesn't solve our acute problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145308	I agree that it does not solve any acute problem at all. And I fully agree with the Prime Minister that we must do something about the external borders. But at some point we have to start together, and if everyone says that it is not possible, then we will never move on. I am pleased to note that I am of course very interested in the Prime Minister's party that there was a paper on future asylum and immigration policy in the run-up to the parliamentary elections. There they wrote, and I quote: 'Lefts, however, consider it essential that international regulation is up-to-date and does not stand in the way of lasting responses to the pressure on Europe's borders in the future - for example. by setting up and operating refugee camps in the vicinity of asylum seekers coming to Denmark. A new government will therefore, if necessary, seek to change international commitments if they are no longer up to date to ensure sufficient freedom of action to pursue an effective asylum policy. I know that the Prime Minister will be pleased that I quote his party's programme, but we do agree that the situation today is no better in June. It is probably worse, and that is why, even if we cannot do anything here and now, we must at some point, for example. start saying: the convention must be changed. No asylum can be sought directly in Denmark. That's what you do from the neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145422	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145423	I am very much in agreement with the fact that there are such discussions and that there are waiting. After all, the Dublin Convention regulates within the European Union and you can be sent back to the first country in which an application for asylum has been lodged. And if we think freely, it can be discussed whether we should not be sent back to a safe third world country if we come from there, in other words outside the European Union. I would be happy to enter into such discussions. The harsh reality is that these fundamental discussions only have any meaning if those who are out in reality play. This is among other things. Therefore, the government has concluded this agreement with Turkey. Because we can come up with a theoretically based solution that if the refugees just stayed in Turkey, we would have no problem. But that does require that there is also a co-play by Turkey. That is why it is not really out of lack of will. It is more to give clear priority to what moves something now and here. What moves something now and here is that a strict asylum policy is being pursued on Danish soil and that on European soil there is a struggle for third-country agreements that ensure that we can provide some help in the neighbourhood that can take the pressure off and that we build up the EU's external borders so that our front door and back door are not wide open.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145558	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145559	I hear the Prime Minister saying in his own way that he fully agrees with the Conservative People's Party that something needs to be done about the conventions, and I also understand the Prime Minister's response. But until we succeed in the big project, I would like to know whether the Prime Minister will be ready to launch a study to identify the possibilities within the existing rules. The study could, of course, highlight and give examples of the most restrictive practices among the countries that have ratified the Convention, clarify to what extent Denmark can extend its self-determination within the framework of the Convention, and explain the development of the approach of relevant ministries, boards and boards to the interpretation of the Convention since its entry into force. In the short term, could this be the case for the Prime Minister's agreement to look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145651	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145652	Actually, I think we do that on a regular basis. After just a few days in government offices, this government presented a bill on integration benefits, and we have followed up with a package of 34 concrete proposals, all of which have been provided in this dynamic interaction between politicians and central government, where the political ambition has been, to put it bluntly, to go to the edge. So we are, as a general part of our ongoing work, both in one and the other ministry and in dialogue with the parties that have helped to carry our immigration policy through, doing that work. And let me say in parenthesis that it is of course with a greater width than could have been foreseen, because the Socialists have to some extent freed themselves from the Radical Left. And if you add one more parenthesis, you can think about how an SR government would have dealt with the current So if the Conservative People's Party has concrete kicks and concrete proposals in the further work to ensure a robust Danish immigration policy, then we are more than generally responsive.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145810	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, and thank you to the Prime Minister. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145817	I should now like to inform you that the report on the matter under item No. 15, after the publication of the agenda has been reprinted, with a lack of a group's contribution to the report. The matter can therefore only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the Things. If no vote is requested, I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145845	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215145956	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 9 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Jane Heitmann (V), Stine Brix (EL), May-Britt Kattrup (LA), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Lotte Rod (RV), Trine Torp (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF). And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 113 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The proposal for adoption has been adopted unanimously and the matter has been closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150120	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150142	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour, 113 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150217	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150237	The bill which the Danish Parliament is discussing today places a heavy emphasis on the fact that people living in this country must be loyal to Denmark. We cannot accept that militant extremist groups succeed in recruiting foreign fighters from Denmark. And when people override that loyalty and choose to fight under the extremists' flag, yes, they should be aware that they meet with the most serious consequence of the law when they return. The bill will ensure that Danish citizens and resident foreigners can be punished for treason if they join an enemy armed force, that is. an armed force for a party involved in an armed conflict against the Danish State. It is therefore targeted at those persons associated with Denmark who are acting in violation of the special loyalty obligation that is vis-à-vis Denmark. However, it is not only in the legislative work that the government has a strong focus on action against the foreign warriors, and I therefore feel it is right to inform Parliament that the police and the prosecution's efforts in this area now also seem to bear fruit. Today, according to my decision, the Attorney General has indicted a 23-year-old man for violating several of the criminal code's terrorist regulations. The man is among other things. were charged with being recruited by the terrorist organisation Islamic State to commit terrorist acts. According to the indictment, he has thus previously been in Syria, where he joined the Islamic State, just as, according to the indictment, he had concrete plans to do so again. According to the indictment, this was prevented when the police stopped and arrested him in March 2015. In this connection, according to the charge, the police also prevented him from taking $20,000. to Syria to hand them over to the Islamic State. He has thus also been charged with trying to provide financial support to a terrorist organisation. The case is a good example of the fact that the authorities are focusing on the area, and I hope that the case over time will be joined by more; it should not be a secret. One of the first steps I made as Prime Minister was to ask a special effort group to review all the cases where there may be grounds for prosecuting foreign fighters who have already been there. That work continues, and with the rules we adopt today in this Chamber, the authorities will have more opportunities to prosecute foreign fighters. From the beginning, the government has had a strong focus on being able to prosecute foreign fighters, and we have worked actively to disarm the extremist forces who are trying to undermine Danish democracy and culture. I can promise that in the coming years too, we will keep that focus. Today we are taking some good steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150550	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150559	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. For the bill 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150640	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150701	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Parliamentary Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150736	No amendments have been tabled. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Eva Flyvholm, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215150803	Now it is getting really, really close to the fact that the parties in the defense circle are deciding which fighters are going to spend 30 billion tax dollars on buying. It'll probably be here right after New Year's. That is why we had also hoped in the Enhedslisten that we in the Danish Parliament could agree to secure and guarantee the people a proper and open process around this combat aircraft purchase. The Secretary of Defense has already stated that the basis for the decision will be made public. I think that is a fine indication, but I must also say that we do not have a clear agreement on how long to go from that basis of decision to the final decision, that is to say whether there is a proper time for the people to have a debate on it. I think it is high time something was put forward if we were to have proper time for it. It has also become clear along the way that the government will carry out the first political sorting and make a recommendation to the conciliation circle. There are quite persistent rumours that the basis for the decision that will be presented will be a politically selected and hand-picked version and not the full, processed and neutral material with which the combat aircraft office has sat and worked. I find that very worrying. On the whole, I think that there has been too much secrecy about this battle airplane purchase, and that is a pity for our democracy, because we must ensure, for all things in the world, that the people have the opportunity to participate in the political debate, especially when it comes to the region of 30 billion tax dollars. That is why I am quite disappointed that the conciliation parties do not seem to have any intention of voting in favour of this proposal, which we have put forward, to ensure transparency in the process, because that would be a very, very good assurance that there will actually be action behind the words of openness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151004	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151012	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. in favour of 20 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151051	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151136	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151213	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151245	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151327	Does anyone wish to speak? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151348	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has tabled two amendments which I would like to draw attention to in the hope that we can have a dialogue on them. There are at least some parties, I think, who owe some reasons for voting against the two amendments. The first of our amendments concerns the retirement age of ministers and members of parliament following the rest of the population. It should be a matter of course. One cannot vote for an increase in the retirement age for the population as a whole, but vote against it when it comes to oneself suddenly, because one wants to retain one's own privileges and be able to retire for taxpayers' money long before the rest of the population has the right to do so. The only thing one gets out of such an attitude is at least to feed the much-mentioned politician, and in this case one has to say that it is quite well-deserved. So what is actually the reason why the Social Democrats, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party are voting against our amendments on this point? However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the SF, the Alternative and the Danish People's Party for their support for that amendment. The second amendment concerns a senior early retirement pension. In the Enhedslisten we have listened to FOA, which says that 38%. of their members do not expect to be able to stand to work until they can retire. We have listened to 3F, which tells that approx. 25% of their members have left the labour market no later than around the age of 60. Those groups only get harder every time you raise the retirement age. They are already severely affected by the deterioration in benefits, early retirement, early retirement, sickness benefit and cash benefits. The consequence of these reforms is already that many in these groups are unable to get stuck in the labour market until they can go on early retirement and retirement, but instead live for years on cash benefits or without support. It will only get worse for this group if the legislative proposal that is before us today is adopted. This is an unworthy way of treating people who have served their military service on the labour market since they were 18 or even younger. So something has to be done. Therefore, our proposal for a senior early retirement pension, which is an opportunity to wear out from the age of 55 onwards, can have a reasonably safe life. I simply cannot understand that the Socialists, the Danish People's Party and the SF will not support this proposal. At first reading, all three parties recognised that we have a major problem with this group on the labour market. They also all acknowledged that the existing early retirement scheme does not solve the problem. But when there is a concrete proposal, we cannot get their support. The Socialists and the Danish People's Party have not even made the effort to justify it, but it can still be reached here from the platform, and I am happy to see that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur is on the way. Thank you to the SF for entering into the debate in their contribution to the report and justifying why they cannot support our proposal. It says here that our proposals are, in fact, the closest to their own considerations, but that they would like to have a well-worked proposal. With all due respect, it would just be nice to know what you think is wrong in the proposal we have put forward. The SF's explanatory statement in the report's contribution is also that they feel bound by the conciliation on the withdrawal reform and therefore cannot support our proposal. I do not really understand that, because we were told at first reading that the SF does not feel bound by this withdrawal agreement. I hope that my small presentation can attract some rapporteurs on the platform and so far it is very good for us to have some reasons why we are voting against the proposal that politicians' retirement age should follow the retirement age and our proposal to give a vulnerable group on the labour market a hand in the form of a senior early retirement pension that can be used for something, contrary to the regime we have today. The Unity List supports the Alternative's amendments, but we will also have the opportunity to debate this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151802	Thank you. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment to be made. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151811	This is a bit of what the rapporteur is getting at at first, namely that we have seen two of the largest parties in the Danish Parliament not taking the floor in connection with this amendment, and I think that is actually quite incredible. We are talking about an increase in the retirement age of all Danes, and we are then putting forward a quite quiet amendment which would mean that we could not at least agree here that this was also the case for those elected to the Folketing, for ministers and for others. Then we have the Social Democrats and we have the Left, who should have taken the floor but who sits and sits and sits. Does the rapporteur have any idea why these rapporteurs are thus trying to avoid taking the floor in this debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151855	No, I think I will refrain from examining the liver and kidneys of the two parties in this respect and be positive, as we are always on the Enhedslisten side, and since the series of speakers is not closed yet, the two parties have the opportunity to come to the floor and give their reasons. I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151915	Does the questioner have another question for the party colleague? That is not the case. Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen and move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Sørensen. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215151929	It is always a little new when one's own party colleague asks questions to the rapporteur up here; one would think they had spoken before. But don't worry about it. It's gonna be okay. I am taking the floor because it is, of course, perfectly justified that Mr. Finn Sørensen asks for a position on the various amendments. We in the Danish People's Party have stated clearly that we accept the amendment on the retirement age of MFs and ministers. It is perfectly legal to say that then we will raise the retirement age, and that applies, of course, to everyone, and we will vote in favour of it. Problem with this, like Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen then could not read, was that I was unable to send a report contribution because there was so much about housing benefits, but that is so another matter that it was suddenly too late to send the report contribution. I am, of course, sorry that I did not make it in time, but that is also why I am taking the floor here, that is to say to explain it. With regard to the amendment on early retirement, we fully agree that there is a problem, and in connection with the withdrawal, it was precisely introduced that a senior early retirement pension could be granted five years before the retirement pension was granted on a lenient basis, and this was true of everyone, that is to say, that one should be able to prove that one was worn out and then one could have a decision within about three months. That was what was in it, but it was so hollowed out with the pre-time flexible job reform that a large majority did and that the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten are not in. This is what the municipalities seem to be doing; it is not the rules on early retirement, but the rules on ordinary early retirement. We have also pointed out to the Minister that it needs to be tightened up and that it needs to be changed, because we need to get the senior early retirement pension to work. I hope the Minister for Employment is ready to look at this seriously, because we therefore have a problem with those who are really worn out, and they should not be dragged through a great work test again, because that should not be necessary when they prove it. Then there is this amendment, which Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten joined us. We are not voting against what we are voting yellow, and we are doing so because it is not just five years before the retirement age, because it goes back to the age of 55 and therefore, of course, there must be resources for it, and we are ready to look at that in the context of a financial law. So if, before the third reading, we could perhaps look at it again and change the date of entry into force exactly for that amendment, so that it applied from 1 January 2017, then the Danish People's Party would be ready to look at it. But we must have the opportunity to find money for it. I hope that's perfectly understandable to Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152214	We have to see that, because there is a brief comment from Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152219	Thank you. Well, thank you to the rapporteur for your answer. I think that is a nice and constructive way of dealing with this, and I think I can give an assurance from this that we will change our proposal so that we will proceed as proposed by the rapporteur. So let us give a handshake here in the presence of everyone that we are working on that at the speed of lightning, so that we can ensure that that is what needs to be decided. So thank you for the clear message.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152252	That's fine, we'll take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152255	There are no more requests for short remarks. Then we go to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152304	Thank you. The reason why I am just taking the floor is that we have also tabled an amendment, and I would like to use this opportunity to justify it. When we saw the draft of this bill, we thought there were similar issues as those mentioned by Enhedslisten in relation to retirement opportunities and the difficulties with senior early retirement. And that is really why we want to open the debate to start discussing a differentiated retirement age in the future. It should not be a secret that we have a skeleton for Germany, where there is a flexible withdrawal system, so that we look at the number of years people have been on the labour market. In this case, it is said that people with 45 years of age on the labour market have the right to retire. I am fully aware that there is no majority in favour of the proposal, but I think that we should discuss in the future how we organise our labour market so that there is a greater equality in when we can retire. And I think that we should bear in mind the fact that we have to treat people differently in order to treat them equally. Something is not right when everyone, no matter how many years they have been on the labour market, has to retire at the same age. With this amendment, we would like to put forward a debate on how to shape our labour market in the future so that we can work with a differentiated retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152438	I would like to thank the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Mr. Finn Sørensen in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152458	Thank you. Well, I thought it was done with a chat with the Secretary of Parliament, but I guess that's not the way things are right here in the Danish Parliament. So I would like to ask from the Chair that that amendment be called 'No'. The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM (89) 570 final - Doc. C3-I99I) for a regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community (COM (89) 4 final - Doc. Bent Bøgsted, whom we would like to support from Enhedslisten. I hope that is technically feasible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152519	That request is noted. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There is no one else who wishes to speak and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152609	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL) and voted. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 4 (SF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT), has withdrawn. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT and SF). We shall conclude the vote. For the vote: 40 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 68 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions: 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT), lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152803	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152826	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL and ALT) on Amendment No 1. Amendment No 2 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF). Amendment No 3 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL and ALT). 4 or on Amendment No 4, which was adopted by the Committee, or Amendment No 4, which was adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Public Health and Consumer They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152902	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215152938	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL and SF). The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), nobody voted in favour or against. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215153017	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215153051	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215153117	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215153138	Does anyone wish to speak? Somebody does. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215153202	After all, this is a very important legislative proposal and we can also thank some of the international organisations, including the OECD, which are working to introduce international standards in relation to tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. Every year billions disappear from the treasury, both in European countries and to such an extent in some of the poorest countries. It is estimated that 12 times as much money is being lost from the poorest developing countries as international aid is being given. This is something we have discussed in this Chamber many times. Capital is international and cross-border, and we are experiencing major problems in closing the gaps that arise on an ongoing basis. That's why this bill is really important. We, the SF, the Alternative and Enhedslisten, have wanted to improve the legislative proposal with some amendments, which I also hope will be welcomed by more people in the Chamber. After all, the legislative proposal is about introducing an international transfer pricing standard so that you cannot fiddle with pushing profits out of a country and into another country where there is a more favourable or no taxation. One amendment tabled by the three parties is that the circle of groups which are to report country by country should cover not only large multinational groups but also large groups under the annual accounts law. For the alternative would be that it would be a small group of groups or companies that would be included. The second proposal is that we want to derogate from the principle of reciprocity, so that a less developed country in the field of taxation does not necessarily have to provide the same information as we in Denmark have to provide. But we understand that there are some problems in it, so we have not tabled all the amendments that we wanted. In addition, we believe that there should be much more transparency and transparency in the information on land reporting both for the NGOs working in the area and for all of us. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for having listened and for having tabled his own amendment saying that even subsidiaries may be fined if they do not report or report too late. I'd like to sign for that. But this is a very, very important bill. It is billions that are disappearing around us and we are craving as parliaments around the world and in Europe, while at the same time it is taxpayers who bear the burden. This is a very good legislative proposal and I hope that you will help improve it and vote for the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215153507	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215153515	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL, ALT and SF). That concludes voting time. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL, ALT and SF). That concludes voting time. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Amendment No 3 was accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 or on Amendment No 4, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA), or by a majority of its component members (the committee with the exception of LA). 5-7, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, SF and RV). Is there another one? I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 55 (S, EL, ALT, RV, SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9, Member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215153736	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215153814	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has, of course, tabled an amendment to the draft law which goes on the part of the draft law which deals with exempting the Prime Minister and other ministers from tax payments through the use of Marienborg. It is, of course, something completely new that is being introduced here that the Prime Minister must be able to use Marienborg in the future, largely at his discretion, without being taxed by it. When we are critical of that change, it is due to two different things. Firstly, we think it is a rather strange signal to send. Other Danes who receive benefits from their employer pay a tax. And we really find it strange that the Prime Minister and other ministers should then be exempt from the tax of the good that it is to use Marienborg. The second is that we do not think that the problem in here is that we have too few privileges. On the contrary, we believe that politicians and ministers are subject to far too many privileges. We have just had the debate on retirement age, which is, of course, a good example of how wrong things are. Many of the honourable Members in this House can retire at 60 or 62 years of age, while the same honourable Members have raised the retirement age of the population to 68 years. That is why we do not think there is any reason at all to grant ministers any further privileges than those which already exist. It has then been argued that this is all about the Prime Minister wanting to use Marienborg for work-related tasks. If, for example, you're gonna have to... has a foreign head of state visiting and you want to go jogging up in Lyngby in the morning, it might be very good to use Marienborg to spend the night before the meeting. I have a great deal of sympathy for that. The only problem is that the bill goes far beyond that. It actually opens up almost free use of Marienborg, as long as you maintain address somewhere else. I do not think that the arguments that have been put forward can justify this. That is why we have tabled an amendment which is actually very simple and which says that this tax exemption for the Prime Minister is limited to stays and accommodations directly linked to the representative or other work-related activities of the Prime Minister in Marienborg. With this amendment, we believe that we are living up to what has been used as an argument, but at the same time we are not opening a barn door for the Prime Minister or other ministers to have quite different conditions for the use of a good than the rest of the population. So this is a proposal we hope to be able to gain support for here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215154107	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? Yes, Mrs Merete Riisager has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215154218	Thank you. And I apologize for the inconvenience. Sometimes we are a little bit difficult in the Liberal Alliance, but we will try to make it as easy and simple as possible. We would like this bill to be split up, as we want to vote against the additional powers of SKAT in relation to the driving register, but would like to vote in favour of the part concerning the use of the Prime Minister's residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215154247	An amendment has now been tabled, which actually means that a proposal has been tabled to stop the debate, as I understand it, and that the proposal is therefore referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215154320	Honourable Members, please leave the Chamber in good order. The debate is open. I shall begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215154428	The motion for a resolution that we are going to deal with now will require the government to change the rules so that the right of members of the municipal and regional councils to pay in absence will be in line with the rules applicable to members of the parliament. The reason is that the proposers do not consider it appropriate for local and regional authorities to be able to receive remuneration for up to three months when they are absent for reasons of leave, further training or the like. The proposers refer, inter alia, to: for a study by DR, which concludes that 80 local and regional authorities have taken advantage of this option over the past two years and that therefore the municipal politicians' leave is estimated to cost millions of tax dollars. Let me start by stating that, like the authors of the motion, I do not, of course, want us to have remuneration rules which unintentionally support a high absence or which are more favourable than the purpose behind the rules dictates. It is offensive if local and regional authorities abuse the existing rules, and that is why I have also started work in the Ministry to clarify how the rules are applied in practice in municipalities and regions. I hope that with such a study we can gain more knowledge of whether there is a real problem and that with such a study we can also have a better basis for assessing whether it is a good idea to change the rules and, if so, in what way. At the same time, I also think it is important to say from the outset that, when assessing the conditions of local politicians, we should have a fundamental understanding that it is a leisure profession to be a municipal politician, and this presupposes a certain degree of flexibility in the organisation of political work. In order to take account of the rules in force, members of municipal and regional councils are required to perform their duties. So there is no ordinary right to take leave under the rules, as the motion for a resolution gives the impression that there is. However, like everyone else, municipal and regional policy can also legitimately be prevented from attending meetings or being absent for shorter periods. It can, for example, be done. be that they are prevented due to illness, work or studies. It is important that everyone with a desire and ability has the opportunity to participate in municipal and regional policy work. Therefore, the rules are designed so that they recognise that it can be legitimate to have absenteeism as a result of having a civilian job, another public office or study. It provides the basis for municipal and regional councils to include members with a broad knowledge and experience. As the rules are today, a municipal politician cannot choose to waive his remuneration during an absence period, which could also be called voluntary leave. That's no matter what the reason for the absence is. The reason why local and regional authorities are obliged to receive the benefits to which they are entitled is that, so to speak, they should not be able to make a political decision as to whether or not to receive the remuneration. So it is a right that applies to everyone. And to come back to the motion for a resolution, that quite rightly means that a municipal politician, such as the President-in-Office of the Council, will be able to do something about it. are absent because of training or leave, in accordance with the rules may receive remuneration for up to 3 months. Although this is not the intention, there is, in fact, a possibility of using the rules in force to take on so-called paid leave. Is it so fair that the rules are so? This can certainly be discussed, and that is also why I have chosen to start work in order to examine precisely the application of the rules by the municipalities and regions. However, I believe that it is also important to realise at the same time that the rules which the proposers want to replace are not necessarily so simple and unambiguous an answer to the problem that it may immediately appear. Firstly, I do not necessarily believe that it is reasonable to transfer the rules of parliamentary politicians to a municipal and regional politicians. In my view, as I said at the beginning, what makes a big difference is that, for everyone other than the mayor and the President of the Regional Council, it is actually a leisure profession when you are a local politician. When you are a local politician, you often have a full-time job or perhaps a second study, and for that reason you can have periods when it is difficult to fit in the political work. When, for example, do you have to... apply for voluntary leave if you, as a local politician, are under pressure from exams in the study or are under pressure of work on the job? Is it if you are prevented from attending a single meeting, in two meetings, or do you have to attend three consecutive meetings? Or is it if you can't read all the papers for the meetings? We must remember that as a local politician we do not appear at the City Hall every day, and that is why it can be a little more diffuse when you are doing the job and when you take the time off, at least a little more diffuse than you can say it is as a member of the parliament. Another difference, which I would like to remind you of in all silence, is that members of parliament have a long period of absence from meetings over the summer and late summer, where there is then a good opportunity to settle holidays, well to mark with full remuneration. Very much the same favourable option exists for local and regional authorities. There are no doubt specific situations in which I think we can all agree that it would be most appropriate for local or regional authorities not to be paid for a period of time, but we must therefore be clear that, even if we introduce rules on voluntary leave, this is no guarantee that the rules cannot be circumvented. At the same time, we must be prepared for the possibility of voluntary leave to arise where members may feel pressured to apply for leave free of charge. So, in principle, I think we should be wary of introducing such arrangements, in which it is left to the individual to decide for himself whether or not to receive remuneration. Then questions such as political points and whether you can afford them can suddenly play a role, and I think that is actually unfortunate. One of the benefits of the rules that we have today is that they are objective and they are easy to administer in practice, and I think that we should bear that in mind if we are to have new rules in this area. Having said that, there may be other models than the one that Enhedslisten points out, and that is one of the things I will look at if the Ministry's investigation provides the basis for proceeding precisely with a change of the rules in force. So to conclude quite briefly, then we cannot at this stage decide whether it is a good or a bad idea to change the rules in line with the resolution. We do not want to be determined on this, but we will wait for the practical investigation undertaken by the Ministry, and if we are to change the rules, I think it is a prerequisite that we have evidence to say, firstly, that there is a real problem, secondly, that the alternative is suitable to remedy the problem, and thirdly, that the new rules do not lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. Against this background, we do not intend to support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155208	We thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. Excuse me, Minister, there is a request for a brief comment. The first in line is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155224	I think it says something about my reputation that the Minister was so surprised that she was allowed to go down the platform. That's nice. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and, as such, I think that there may be a problem here. The Minister says quite clearly that it may not be the intention, but that it may be the reality that people, councillors, take leave, which is not justified by anything other than perhaps the desire for a very long holiday, and then take their remuneration with them. In our view, this is quite unreasonable, even if it has not been intended. I would also like to thank the Minister for wanting to go into the problem and try to make a statement as to whether there is a problem. I would like to ask a little more about this, because Denmark's Radio has made an inventory, their inventory, where they say that over the last two years almost 80 council members have taken some kind of leave which is not justified by anything other than continuing training or holidays, and thus they have also taken their remuneration with them. If that is the scale, does the Minister see a problem to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155337	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155340	Let me start by thanking you for the fact that there were questions, because I was quite surprised if the rapporteur did not have questions for his own resolution. I am aware of that study by the DR, and it will be the case that the Ministry's investigation will be carried out as a sample survey for a committee of municipalities and regions, and there we are actually in dialogue with the KL about the more practical organisation of the study, and we are actually expecting to be able to initiate it here around the turn of the year. I am not going to anticipate what the study might show at this stage. I am aware that the study carried out by the DR has shown that it is up to 80 people, and precisely the discussion about whether it is legitimate or not is such a study that I have to have a little more solidly presented before I think we can conclude that this is a specific problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155434	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155437	I think that is perhaps a little too bad, because I would be inclined to agree with the Minister that if it is a tiny problem, i.e. if it is two people, it is one of all the many, many council members we have in Denmark, then it may not be worth the trouble. However, if we are to accept the Minister's explanation that it is now being examined whether there is a problem and then perhaps something is being done about it, then it is a good idea that we agree on when there is a problem. And I think that 80 people who have been on holiday or leave or in-service training and have taken their remuneration with them, without there being any reason, are very much. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155520	However, I do not believe that the study carried out by the DR contains such a clear conclusion, which says that there are 80 people who have been wrongly given leave of absence because, as the questioner himself points out, this is perhaps holiday, perhaps study, perhaps other work. I do not think that this is so specific, and that is why I say that I think we should be sure that this is the case. Because if it were 80 pure holiday tickets, I agree that at least that is not what is intended, and then the leave rules are potentially too unclear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155600	The next question is Mr. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155607	I would like to ask the Minister for a case like my own. I am here on leave from Svendborg City Council, and I cannot opt out of receiving remuneration from Svendborg City Council. I think it makes sense not to sit on double mandates, which is why I took leave while I'm here. It is not, in fact, because it is, I think, an abuse of the rules or anything else. It's just that I'm now paid from two places, and in one place I'm not. I get a very good fee for being here, and therefore I do not think there is any reason why Svendborg City Council should also pay me a fee. That's what this is all about. So it's not necessarily about abuse. I think it is a perfectly legitimate use of the rules. It's just weird that Svendborg City Council has to pay me a fee for me to be here, where I already get a fee. If you have too much work, you usually get paid for it, and if you even have overtime, you get extra pay. Perhaps I can agree with the Minister that it should not be the case that one should necessarily be pressured to take a position on oneself. However, it may well be that there must be clearer rules on when to receive remuneration and when not to receive it. Because it can be fair enough if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. is ill. Could the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155708	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155710	But I really think that exactly the question that is being asked shows a little about the breadth of the application for leave. This starts with the fact that the questioner is currently on leave from the city council work, and the parties are, after all, very different as to whether double mandates are allowed. I strongly recommend this and say that both the office of local politician and the duties of a member of parliament can be effectively performed. However, with these questions, it is still clear that, in connection with this issue of having the right to leave, it should not be required on the part of the individual to assess whether it is reasonable or not. That is why I believe we need clear rules. And if something is to be adjusted, we must at least be aware that the leave granted today is potentially not granted according to what can be regarded as reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155809	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155812	But wouldn't the Minister agree with me that it's strange that I have to get a fee from Svendborg City Council while I'm in the Folketing when I've taken leave entirely voluntarily? It is, of course, up to other parties to say that you can easily double jobs, that there is no problem with that. But if you are not of that opinion, I suppose it is reasonable that I too should not have to have a fee from the place where I have taken my leave of absence. Is that not a reasonable consideration?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155839	But this is precisely where we have all the nuances of leave provisions. And if I were to answer whether I think that is fair in the case of the questioner, I would say that it was reasonable that one should also retain one's place in the city council and dealt with the fact that one had a double mandate. I would just like to say that right now, of course, the rules are being followed. I am willing to look at that rule because there are many nuances as to how to spend while on leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155911	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155915	Thank you. I just have one specific question. Now I have followed the debate here and in the very thorough and good speech by the Minister, and that was fine, but the Minister did not mention in his speech a word about the Commission, which we know is working in these months and which, as far as I understand the timetable, is putting the finishing touches to the work. The Commission's task is precisely to look at the remunerations, among other things. the remuneration of local and regional authorities. I would just like to ask the Minister: is it the Minister's view that this part of it is outside the terms of reference since the Minister does not mention it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215155957	That is what is called a good question. In the next motion for a resolution we will be discussing, I would like to say that the remuneration commission is in progress, and I know that they are also generally looking at the rules on leave, so it might well be that in their report there will be proposals along those lines. But whether the rules are being abused, as it is today, is not part of the work of the Commission to investigate, and that is why I have decided that we should look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160027	The next in line of questioners is sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160036	Thank you. It is a little strange, I think, that every time we discuss the conditions and privileges of politicians, we are so long-suffering to do something about it. In other words, many of these issues of pensions and post-employment have been discussed year after year in here. A new study will then be started, and a new commission will then be set up and something may be concluded. But when it comes to ordinary citizens and especially people outside the labour market, there is no limit to the zeal to ensure that there is not the slightest abuse. Now the Minister is talking about the fact that it is also about us being careful that no one is affected financially. But today it is the case that people who are affected by unemployment and are on cash benefits are set off in their cash benefits if they are given a city council office. There you can talk about getting hit financially. So can the Minister guarantee that when the study which the Minister then thinks must be carried out in order to conclude that we have a problem, which is obvious that we have, then will action be taken against that background and involve the parties of the Folketing in getting something done about these unfair privileges?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160141	Now it is not the Folketing as such which regulates the remuneration of municipal and regional members. The Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior does. I am aware that Mr. Pelle Dragsted thinks it's amazing, and he should be free to do so. In my view, it is vitally important to clarify whether the rules on leave are clear, whether they are understandable or whether there is actually an abuse, so that you get a salary, even if you are on holiday for three months in a row.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160224	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160226	I think it's a little weird that it creates this discomfort, so it's so uncomfortable to talk about. We are in a situation where we ask the municipalities and the citizens to hold back and tighten their belts and everything else, and you can then agree or disagree with that. Then we just say and have done it many times on the Enhedslisten side that then the least we can do is also to look at our own relationship. Is there something unreasonable? Is something not right? And if so, should we not do something about it? That is what this proposal and the next one and the many other proposals we have put forward to try to do something about it here are all about. I don't think I heard a clear answer. With this study, is there also an obligation that if it turns out that this is an abuse it is not being used in a way that is inappropriate, then will you do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160312	I am not in any way uncomfortable with this debate. I think it is quite reasonable to have. Now, the previous questioner has, in fact, just brought up the pay committee, which will be presenting their report here very soon, and many hours of work have been devoted to having a look at the conditions for both municipal politicians and regional politicians, both the presidents and the mayors, and indeed also the members and ministers of parliament. So I do not think that it is right to claim that there is discomfort or reluctance to look very carefully in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160353	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160412	Thank you. Basically, I very much welcome this proposal, and I think it is based on something that we sometimes lack to show here in the Danish Parliament: respect for local democracy and, above all, respect for the people who lift local democracy. My view is quite clear that the working conditions that you have if you go into a city council or a regional council are not enviable and it is hard to make everyday life stick together. We need more, not fewer, who want to go in and carry out that task in our democracy. It is also a question of having respect for the tasks that you do if you go into politics. And as I hear the authors of the motion for a resolution here in the debate, I would like to say that I am glad that we do not have an envy debate here. It is, in fact, a debate on whether we can give people reasonable conditions to work under. We have plenty of examples from the media and I have also talked to some of the politicians themselves that they say they're actually actually free of this rule, because it's very, very difficult to explain. I have a great deal of sympathy for that. I think it is in this spirit that we should see this proposal and not, as such, something enviable, because it is not very enviable to be in local politics, but it is important, so we must strengthen those working conditions. Now I started with the positive, but if we in the Socialist Group end up not being able to support this proposal, it is precisely in connection with what the Minister mentioned in the answer to my question, namely that we have set in motion a remuneration commission, and it is precisely in the terms of reference that we have to look at, among other things. the remuneration arrangements for our municipal and regional policy. And the report comes here right after the turn of the year, according to my information, which is why it makes the most sense to see it as a whole. But I would like to point out here from the Socialist side that if it ends up with that, and I think the Minister was a little unclear about the fact that the Commission has not seen this, it may be that they have not seen this, even though they are working thoroughly. And there I think it is quite excellent that the Minister has already, what can be said, proactively started some kind of investigation in the Ministry, because there is no doubt that this corner can be improved with the reservations that there must be, because we must see it as a whole rather than jumping from tue to tue here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160646	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160649	Thank you for that and thank you for the proper handling of the proposal. It is quite true that in the Enhedslisten we do not think that city council members are such a particularly overgold group in our society. On the contrary, they are working really, really hard, and if there is something that we think they need to do, that's what we hear from our town roots, then it's getting some more help to carry out the big task, it's day-to-day being a council member. So we are in complete agreement on that. It also sounds like we agree that this is just as rude as it is in Jutland. That is why I would like to hear what the Socialists will do if the remuneration commission arrives at the conclusion that this possibility will exist and that town council members will thus be forced to receive remuneration if they are on leave, for example. because they have another job for a while or they have to take a vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160745	The reason why we have a remuneration commission is precisely because, when it comes to remuneration, and this is in all democratic terms, and as I know Enhedslisten, and as I have seen them today, it is at least something that we are all concerned with on the part of that party, I think, we are all concerned with getting proper conditions and fair and clear rules, and that is why it makes sense to see it as a whole. That is why I think that with an expression that I think someone in this Chamber used in connection with another case earlier today, it would be such a bit premature to go in now and say what will surely happen if this corner is gone. What I can say for sure is that if that corner is gone, there really must be a good explanation and a way of containing the problem in order to satisfy us. And if we do not consider that there is, we will go further and encourage the Minister to proceed with the work that the Minister may even provoke by this proposal has set in motion. But I think it is just early enough to say that it will certainly mean it, because it may well be that they have another solution that has not been considered in this proposal. After all, they have been working on it for almost two years now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160846	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160848	Thank you for that answer. So, first of all, I hear that there is an opening to the fact that the Socialists can actually find some of the things the Commission comes up with, unfairly and will therefore also take on the task of incorporating not only the rules that the Commission comes up with, but some fair and proper rules. I think it is really, really important that this has just been said today, because you could sometimes have not only the Socialists but also other parties suspected that this Commission was set up because you would rather not take responsibility for the overall rules. But what I hear the Socialists say is that you can also make some rules other than those that the Commission comes up with. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215160934	That is absolutely correct. If there are any blind spots in the commission that has now had almost two years to work with it and it may be here now, but it may also be in connection with the next proposal that we are going to discuss here. Well then I think it is our duty to say: well, hov, this is also interesting. I think that is always the case in general when a commission comes up with something. Then there may well be a desire to say that as much as possible we must get into the set of rules, but there may also be blind spots that have not been taken into account. That is why we have a duty to look at it too, and I have indicated that as far as this is concerned, we will look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161007	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161016	Thank you. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for having raised this important debate. We in the Danish People's Party have previously voted in favour of proposals which prevent double remuneration or pensions. In the Danish People's Party we believe that the pay and pension rules that we have here in the Danish Parliament and grant ourselves cannot necessarily reflect the Danish labour market, but that conditions must be transparent and not least reasonable and reasonable, so that citizens can accept them. This motion for a resolution sets out to amend the rules on when city council and regional council members may receive remuneration when they request leave. If leave is of a private nature such as leave, education or civil work and does not relate to sickness, maternity, adoption or care of sick relatives, the rules should be such as to allow leave to be granted but free of charge. It should be borne in mind that an additional cost is imposed on the municipalities by the fact that a person applies for leave with remuneration, while at the same time paying the same remuneration to the person who takes up his/her place of employment. The Danish People's Party does not believe that it can be right for the municipalities and regions to receive an increase in the cost of remuneration. We think it is very sensible that the rules should be uniform so that municipal and regional council members are treated in the same way as members of parliament as regards the right to remuneration for voluntary leave. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161155	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161213	The Enhedslisten proposes that before the end of the 2015-16 parliamentary year, the government amend the necessary rules so that members of the municipal council and members of the regional council's right to remuneration for leave due to leave, study or similar will be in line with the rules applicable to members of the parliament. The statutory system for local and regional government politicians today allows remuneration for up to three months, even if leave does not concern, for example, the right to vote in local and regional elections. sickness, care for sick relatives, pregnancy, maternity, adoption and the like. Then we can ask, as the authors of the motion suggest, whether the system is being misused and whether there is a problem with the system, because if that is the case, of course it is not something that the Left can accept. However, we have no evidence other than a study by Danmarks Radio and then some articles in Ekstra Bladet and BT, but there is evidence that perhaps in some municipal councils more than in other municipal councils there are more taking leave than one might immediately think reasonable. There may also be differences in the workload of the various municipal councils. For example, Copenhagen's Citizen's Representation has a great many meetings and is probably one of the places where most people have taken advantage of leave arrangements. That is why the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior, as we heard a little earlier, has launched a study to look at how the rules are actually being applied. Do the rules work? Are they too favorable, and do they even motivate absenteeism? These are some of the questions we need to answer before we can say how big the problem is and then we have a basis to see if and how to change. Having said that, I would just like to make it clear that there are basic differences between being local and regional authorities on the one hand, and being a parliamentary politician on the other, which means that what Enhedslisten is proposing as a solution to matters, namely that we simply have to standardise the rules between Parliament and municipal and regional councils, so that we are not quite as straightforward as we might think. I know the world in both places. I am a councilman at Frederiksberg, a member of the municipal council, and at the same time I am a member of the Folketing. The most obvious difference between the two places is that it is a leisure work to be a municipal politician, while it is a full-time job to be a politician in the Folketing. Before I came in here as a parliamentarian, I was a lawyer, albeit part-time, but nevertheless I experienced having weeks where I had a big case, which took virtually every hour of the week. I did my job in the municipal council, I came to the meetings I had to attend, but of course I didn't fit it for as many hours as the weeks when work was less busy. In the Left we think it is important that I do not know if Enhedslisten thinks so, but at least we think it is important that those who sit in the municipal council are also people who have a interface, for example, with the private business sector, where the workload can therefore vary over the year. It could also be a self-employed craftsman, for example, who has a Sweyn who gets a work injury, and then may have to give it an extra shell for a period of time. It's not something he makes more money by, because he still has to give away pay to his svend. Could it not be very reasonable that he had the opportunity to take a short leave period so that he could do the job until the Swede came back or he was hired a sick victor? In other words, there may be perfectly legitimate reasons for absenteeism, and the question is then, because I do not hear Enhedslisten say that there should be no possibility of taking leave, even if you have to have an income during a period of leave. There the current rules say yes, but only up to 3 months, unless it is maternity and so on. It may well be that we need to change that. I just want to make it clear that it is important that we do not impair the conditions under which local authorities can reflect the population widely, and also have people in the municipal council who are active in the business community. Then there is also a difference which, of course, has a practical meaning. There is no clearing option in a municipal council, so you have to attend all the meetings as a municipal councillor and do not have the option that we have here in the Folketing. So, for the reasons I have just mentioned, the Left does not believe that it is possible to create an easy alignment between the leave arrangements of local politicians and parliamentary politicians. The basis for change must be in order, and that is why we welcome both the work of the Pay Commission and look forward to seeing what they come up with, but also the work of analysis carried out in the Ministry, because of course it needs to be examined whether the leave scheme is working properly. For this reason, we in the Left believe that it is worth waiting for the Ministry's investigation, and that is why we cannot support the resolution at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161723	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161727	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that when the rapporteur says that we are suggesting that there are council members abusing the scheme, that is not something we have said in any way. On the contrary, the problem is that there are council members who would like to take a long leave of absence and I think it is a very good idea if you want to, or if you would like to have further training, and who do not even think it is fair that during that period they are paid for a job as a city council politician, which they are not doing. But they must so that no one is talking about abuse, but about some rules that are wrong. Having said that, I would like to ask the rapporteur: what if the remuneration commission is not looking at this? Is that something we should have corrected, so that we can go on leave when it is fair and fair, but that we only get paid for it when there is reason to do so, such as. in case of illness or maternity?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161831	If the Service Commission doesn't come up with anything about this... I think that's what I said in my speech... then let's see for ourselves what another arrangement can be. But what is reasonable and what is fair is not necessarily the same in Mrs Pernille Skipper's world picture and so in mine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161847	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161851	No, it is probably absolutely true that we do not always agree entirely on what is fair and fair. I think we have experienced that in the past too. But Enhedslisten's proposal is, of course, that you as a city council politician be given the opportunity to take leave in the same way as we do in here as parliament politicians, that is to say you can have the right to leave, but if it is not justified by maternity, illness or the like, you do not get the money out of the house. We think this is both easily accessible and very fair and also something that can be transferred to city council politicians, even though in other ways there is a difference between being a parliament politician and being a city council politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215161932	As a politician in parliament, you can take leave for whatever reason and for as long as you like. I don't know if I really think that's fair. In other words, you are allowed to be chosen by some voters who vote for someone in faith that you intend to do the work for which you have been elected for a four-year period. So you can discuss whether it is necessarily fair and fair that you can simply pull the plug, because you would rather do something else, even if you are not paid for it. So let us now have a discussion in which we look at things in context, that is to say both looking at how the leave options should be • maybe there should be two kinds of leave, i.e. a paid leave and an unpaid leave, or should the possibility of paid leave completely disappear? Do they have to be changed too? Let's look at it in context and not just adopt these hovsa solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162019	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162027	Thank you. What just made me take the floor was the part about leisure jobs. I have two sons who study, and it takes some money, especially for the one who lives in Aarhus and also has to afford an apartment there. I think he'd be glad he could get paid even if he didn't do his leisure job. Does the rapporteur think that all those who now have leisure jobs and then for a period of time have suffered too much homework, for example? students, also still have to get the corresponding salary they get by the leisure job they have?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162101	Now I think that the Danish People's Party will be really, really surprised if I say that yes, we think that would be quite reasonable. No, this is not something we have current plans to introduce. I am just making such a quiet point that if you want people who have full-time jobs to participate actively in local politics, and if it is not just a question for people who have left the labour market, then it is also important that there is an opportunity for you to do your job while you are in the municipal council. And there it may be that you may have a legitimate need for a leave of absence. If that leads to a reduction in income in those months and then you come into some dilemmas, then I think that is something we should take seriously. And I don't think you can quite compare it to a bottle boy in Brugsen who's busy with his homework.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162157	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162159	However, the rapporteur is right to say that when a deputy enters the three months' leave, the deputy must be paid the same salary as that for which he has been replaced, which means that the municipality or the region will have a double cost in those months. Does the rapporteur think that it is appropriate for taxpayers to pay the extra salary during those leave periods?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162231	The first is that I agree with the speaker, because, yes, these are the rules, just as two salaries must also be paid if you are going on maternity leave or if you are ill. If you want leave to care for dying relatives etc., you also have to pay two salaries. That's the way it is. The question is whether this is also fair in the situations we are talking about here. I think that in many municipal councils it may be a little too nice to grant leave, that is to say that you do not go in and ask whether the grounds for leave indicated are now real. That might also be a problem, and I think that is one of the things we should have looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162309	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162312	Thank you. The rapporteur, as the rapporteur himself said, has some experience on the back as a city council politician. When did the rapporteur become aware that these rules we are discussing today are such that, in fact, as Mr. Jesper Kiel told you, even if you wish, that you cannot renounce your remuneration on leave and that there are these cases that seem absurd? When did the rapporteur become aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162342	I have been in the municipal council at Frederiksberg for 18 years, and that is not because there have been a lot of requests for leave. There have been quite, very few. One of those I remember was from my party colleague Rikke Hvilshøj, who had to finish his thesis and thus took two months' leave to finish his thesis. I think it was the first time I heard about the opportunity. And one can say that there may be other members of parliament who have been eternity students and who might have done the same, so they had gotten paper on what they had read. I think it was good that she was given the opportunity to devote herself to her Master's thesis for a limited period of two months, so she had her study completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162425	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162427	I think that sounds like a good idea, but the question is whether it is reasonable that we should then receive a salary for some work but do not do it during the period in question. You don't do that anywhere else. So if the rapporteur has been aware of this by means of this example, why has the rapporteur not taken the initiative in the past to raise this discussion? It is said that a Commission has now been set up, and that is why we will not look at it now. I just think that when we discuss these things, always as I said before, there are good excuses. I think so. That's why you can ask yourself why, without highlighting myself, it's always Enhedslisten who has to take these cases up. Why are they never taken up when you pay attention to them and when it comes to the privileges of politicians?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162510	But I don't think I found it a big problem at the time. In no way did I feel morally outraged on behalf of the taxpayers that there was that possibility. And you can say that if there had not been that possibility, it might have meant that the thesis had not been completed, because the rent does not disappear because you have two months' leave. There's a lot of fixed expenses. Now Mrs Rikke Hvilshøj is a very dutiful lady, so she probably had it finished anyway. But there might well be others who were given an opportunity to complete their thesis. And then you might ask: should we make it more difficult for students to run for a municipal council, or should we not make it more difficult? That is something on which I think we should have a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162555	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162557	Now I understand from the rapporteur that it may be fair enough to raise wages in two places, even if you are only in one place. Here at Christiansborg just take time off if you can be cleared, and then you can sit over on the city council somewhere and take care of your duties there. We think from the point of view of Enhedslisten that it is one, one might say, strange logic that one should be able to raise pay in two places when one can only be one place at a time. And that's basically just what we're trying to say. It is true that you can find some examples of some kind of training for local politicians. But we cannot agree that it is not reasonable for a city council to pay for working elsewhere because one simply does not have time to be present, for example. if you are going to parliament or if you are suddenly very busy at work? Then you also earn some money, and it is probably not fair that it is the municipality that should pay for taking the leave of one's duties in the city council.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162654	Well, I'm not as dismissive as Enhedslisten would like me to be. There may well be situations where it is not reasonable to raise wages in two places, and then you only have to raise wages in one place. And there may also be other situations where a shorter leave period may be reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162714	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162717	In that case, we hope that it will come out of the announcement that it does not seem as a principle that pay should be raised in two places, even though the Left practices it to a large extent by having double mandates. But then we accept it, one might say, stretched out hand, and then we hope that something will come out of those considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162738	Now I think that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is saying something that is not supported. So, it is not my fault that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is abandoning his constituents who have elected him to a municipal council and skipping his work in the municipality because he would rather sit in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162752	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215162803	Thank you. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for tabling a good motion for a resolution. And I'll give Mr. Pelle Dragsted is right that Enhedslisten often does, and at least it happens that the Liberal Alliance supports them. So do we today. We think this is a really sensible proposal. We think it is important that there is flexibility for both municipal politicians and regional politicians, because we recognise that having a job in local politics is mostly a secondary job where you can also have a full-time job that can be demanding. So we think it is really important that there is flexibility and that you can take leave if you are going to study abroad or if there is a peak burden on your work for a period of time, but we do not think it is reasonable that you should be able to take the salary with you. And that's what we have to deal with here. We continue to support flexibility, but it is precisely in relation to the question of whether you should be able to take your remuneration with us that it seems unreasonable to us that, because you choose to travel 3 months to Bangkok with your study, you should then be able to take your remuneration with you. We believe that this should be left in the municipal council, in the city council or in the region to the deputy who replaces you. In view of the fact that there will then be a remuneration commission looking at this, I would also agree with Enhedslisten that there is always a commission to look at what we think is important now and here; there is therefore a study under way which we must wait for. So, of course, we in the Liberal Alliance are also following the work of the Pay Commission and are looking forward to seeing the recommendations, but in concrete terms we can just say that this does not change the fact that we think this is a very good proposal and that we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163000	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163023	Thank you. We think it is wrong for municipal councillors and regional councillors to be able to go on holiday with pay, and I am sure that many outside of this thing will think it is beating unfair. I think that people like most will think so, and you cannot even say no to it. I think it's really nice that Mr. Jesper Kiel, if I've heard the name correctly, says no to having the double standard. I think it is sympathetic when parliamentary politicians are actually in favour of something that will cost themselves money. I hope we can see some more of that. Our own President, Uffe Elbæk, has renounced the possibility of retirement before the population. It wasn't easy, it took a lot of administration, but it actually succeeded. This is not because we do not want to support people in, for example. Municipal Councils. It may well be that they need a higher salary or more help with the papers, and the few I know who are there are working really, really hard, so that's not it. But we would actually rather have them get something that benefits everyone, for example. aid to the administrative, instead of e.g. aid to the administrative. pay during vacation, which may only benefit some. That is why we support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163145	There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163153	Thank you from here to Enhedslisten for raising this debate. After all, we have the special situation that we politicians are helping to decide what pay and working conditions we should have ourselves, and that, of course, makes quite a lot of demands that we should always be responsible for how much money we allocate ourselves and that we are always willing to discuss these different rules. We basically agree with some of what is in this motion for a resolution, i.e. that we have to look at these remunerations, and also in the next one we are going to discuss. However, we feel that when we have made an agreement with some parties to do such a Commission work, where we have to look broadly at all the working conditions and pay conditions for politicians in Denmark, we would like to wait and see what that Commission comes up with before we start voting for some things. Because it may be that the Commission comes up with an overall package of proposals, and it may also come up with some proposals which are, in fact, better than this one, but which we do not yet know. That is why we reject this motion for a resolution on the same grounds as our parties to the agreement, namely that we would like to see the Commission proposal as a whole before we start voting in favour of new rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163317	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163319	Thank you. I must admit that we have now tabled so many resolutions on the part of the Enhedslisten which, in one way or another, have had to do away with something that we have thought was unreasonable, that is to say, purely pamphlet, and every time we have been met by a wall of parties hiding behind a Commission. Can the Radicals also say whether, if the Commission does not come to the conclusion that this should be changed, it will nevertheless help to look at it? Because if the Radicals say so, then I can start counting my way to the top, and then we know that this is going to change. Apparently we have to wait for a commission for some reason, but then we know that it will be changed no matter what the commission arrives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163416	There it will be a yes to the next thing we are discussing. In relation to this, we would like to see what kind of proposal the Commission makes on the remuneration situation of our local politicians in general before we finally take a position on it, and that is why it is actually quite real. For now, Mrs Pernille Skipper says that you are hiding behind a commission. However, one of the reasons why a commission is being set up in our eyes is, in fact, that one can try to see if one can become wiser. I think the crucial question here is how the remuneration and the rules are going to look to these local politicians in general, and that is where we will wait until the Commission comes up with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163453	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163456	Does this mean that the Radicals can accept rules, even for the future, where city council politicians can take 3 months on holiday because they want to, and then take their pay with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163513	We have not taken a position on what this should look like, because it depends on what the overall Commission proposal looks like. I also think that, as other rapporteurs have said, there may be some situations in which it might be sensible to take leave, and that is why we have not yet taken the final decision on this. Because we'd like to see the proposal we've ordered from this commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163537	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163540	I'm just looking at the terms of reference of that commission. And now I may be wrong, but as far as I can see, the elected city council is not exactly part of the Commission's work, but only mayors, regional presidents, ministers and members of parliament. If that is true, the rapporteur's argument for not wanting to vote too slightly oddly, and this also applies to the argument put forward by the former Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163610	No, because some of what the Commission must at least look at is also the remuneration of local politicians and the rules that apply to it. I think that is quite crucial. And from what I understand from the statements I have seen, this could easily be something that is also mentioned in this Commission. So I do not agree with Mr. Pelle Dragsted in that it's completely out of the question that this could come with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163635	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163635-2	Now, of course, I cannot be sure of it, but as it appears here, it says that the Commission must carry out an analysis of the overall execution of mayors, Regional Council Presidents, Members of Parliament and Ministers. I think it was a matter of the fact that, shortly before this commission was set up, changes had just been made in the case of council members, in other words locally elected. It may be that the Minister can take the floor and confirm whether it is the case that this work of the Commission does not concern exactly the matter we are discussing here. For that would be relevant to the further debate and also to some of the rapporteur's contributions that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163714	I still find it interesting to see what they come up with in that work. For the pay package and the working conditions you get as a Regional Council member are among other things. bound up with what the President of the Regional Council gets. You typically get some share of what a Regional Council President gets, for example. if you have a committee post, etc. Therefore, I still think it would be interesting to see what they are saying before they take a position on this. However, as I said in my very first speech, we will not refuse to vote in favour of this. We just want to see what this commission brings in before we start saying yes or no to anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163752	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163754	Now, I can tell you from the point of view of municipal reality that just before this commission was set up, the town council politicians were given DKK 20,000. more a year on a fee. And that's why I think it's been the clear opinion in the Danish town councils that that's what you got, and then that pot was out. So it is a little strange to think, when a new commission is set up, which has a completely different purpose, that you will look again at the salaries of local politicians. That is not their task at all. If there is one thing you can say about commissions, it is usually that they read the mandate and fulfill it to the letter. So is it not rather doubtful whether they are starting to embark on some other tasks, because perhaps some have had it in mind? It is true that the remuneration of committee members can be regulated on the basis of the mayor's salary, but it is now just a local decision. That is the ceiling to which you can go, which will be raised, but it is just not the same as getting something. And that is why it is not the commission's job to interfere in it; for it is something that is defined locally. That is why I would like to ask: is it not asking too much of this Commission to do something that it has not been asked for at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163907	Now I myself have been elected in local politics, and I think everyone knows that the salary you receive as a local politician is much more than just equal basic salary. It is also through some of these board posts that you can get. At least I have read in the media that this is one of the things you are considering looking at precisely because you look at the mayors' salaries. It is crucial for us just see how it lands. And if this isn't included at all, i.e. if the three representatives of Enhedslisten here are right that it isn't included at all, then of course we are ready to go back and look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163945	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215163946	I think we're ready for a bet from down here. It is not the Commission's commission, so we think the rapporteur might as well hurry to deal with it now, because that bet is going to lose.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164001	Then I have the question: what is Enhedslisten going to put on top of that bet? Otherwise, it's a little hard to make a deal about it. But in any case, in the Radical Left, we decided that we would like to see the work of the Commission before we take a position on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164016	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164026	In the SF, we support the proposal, which requires the government to harmonise the rules for absenteeism, so that members of the municipal and regional councils have the same opportunities for remuneration in absence as members of the parliament. The members of the municipal and regional councils are obliged to perform their duties and do not normally have access to leave, but they have the possibility of being legally prevented from attending, for example. because of health conditions, pregnancy, maternity, adoption and the performance of other public functions. In practice, there is also the possibility of legal absenteeism in training, holidays or work obligations. In the SF, we still believe that there should be this opportunity and respect for the fact that municipal and regional council members should have their lives with the family and their civilian work to hang together. Not long ago, I myself was one of the municipal councillors, and I dare to guarantee that this is not just cake, and the hourly wage is not very high, but when we talk about the conditions of municipal councillors, it is quite different from what is involved in remuneration on leave. And these are quite different means of action if we are to reduce the burden on members of the Council of Municipal and Regional Councils. The question therefore arises only as to whether they should have access to remuneration during that absence. And here we believe that the same rules should apply as apply to other jobs, which apply to the labour market, namely that of course you should have the opportunity to call a substitute for sickness, maternity, pregnancy, adoption, etc. In the case of holidays, training and work reasons for absenteeism, there should also be an opportunity to call an alternate, but at the same time no remuneration should be paid to those who leave the post of elected official. For SF, this is not a question of whether it is abused or not. Several, among others. In the past, members of the municipal council have questioned the reasonableness of obtaining full remuneration during this kind of legal absence. Several have even wanted to turn down the remuneration. However, as a member of the Council of Municipal and Regional Councils, it has not been possible to receive a remuneration. So it's up to the Folketing if the rules need to be changed. That is why we believe that there is a good reason for looking at the rules, and we believe that it is not in the Commission's immediate task to look at precisely these rules. We are in favour of the proposal and look forward to the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164317	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164325	Thank you. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal. However, we cannot support the motion for a resolution, which deals with restricting the right of municipal and regional council members to take paid leave. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that the Minister will now look into whether the rules are actually being abused and whether there is a real need to change them. There are a great many municipal politicians around the country who are making a really great and serious effort in the municipalities to make everything work together, and the responsibility has increased and the tasks have increased in number and complexity since the municipal reform. Local authorities have been reduced, and this also means that labour pressure has increased. This weekend one could, among other things. read that a study had been carried out on how many municipal councillors had chosen to resign from municipal politics since the elections, and that was actually quite a lot here two years later. It should also be borne in mind that the office of a municipal councillor is, after all, a civil ombud; it is a duty that you have and you are not free to choose. Nor is it possible to choose whether to go on holiday or leave. It is, in fact, a decision that the municipal council must take on behalf of the member, at the request of the member. So it is for this reason that the majority of the municipal council takes the decision and, in each individual case, has the opportunity to delve into the matter and see whether leave should be granted. Of course, it should not be the case that this is unintentionally used against intention, but I do believe that the municipal councils are the ones who have the best opportunity to go into the specific case and see if there is a basis for granting leave. I nevertheless welcome the fact that the Minister has set in motion work to investigate how much this is actually being used, but until we have those figures on the table, we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164516	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164519	Thank you. I asked for the floor because the rapporteur also used the expression that others used from the platform, namely that it should be an abuse of the rules if you are paid during a long holiday or in-service training, but there is no such thing. It is a question of using those rules. On the contrary, it is the case that the town council members who wish to avoid receiving a salary during a voluntary leave are forced to receive a salary. So isn't it a little bit of a concern to say that you're going to investigate the abuse? These are not abuses, they are rules that allow you to get paid during holidays and in-service training. Does the rapporteur think that these are reasonable rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164611	I think the rules are fair as they are, and now we are getting an assessment of the extent to which this is being used and whether, moreover, it is being used in accordance with the intentions behind it. However, I think it is reasonable that there should be this flexibility and, at the same time, that it should be borne in mind that it is, of course, the individual municipal council which has to choose when there is a basis for granting leave. So there is also an opportunity for you to sit out locally and assess that there are no grounds for granting leave in this particular case. So it is clearly out there in the municipalities now to decide how to make use of the rules, and I think that is quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164645	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164647	I have to admit, I think that's a little bit mysterious. So the conclusion that there are people on paid leave must be that they are completely denied leave if they need it for further training or if they have a period of time when they are under great pressure on their work. I think that's something weird if I'm to be honest with you. I would like to ask whether the number of 80 people who, according to the DR, have taken leave solely on the grounds of leave or further training is too large. Is it too many who do not live up to intention? If the Minister's investigation turns out to give figures of roughly the same order of magnitude, will you help to change the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164729	I cannot stand here and decide whether 80 are many or few. After all, we need to make this clear in order to see how much this is about, in terms of what the intention was and what else it looks like. So I can't stand here and relate to whether 80 is a lot or a few.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164748	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164750	I also attached myself to the word 'abuse', which was used again. As a starting point, I do not think that it is abuse if you are going to do something else. Now both the rapporteur and I are in favour of a brief remark here in the Folketing and coming from the municipal world. I have chosen to say that I cannot look after the municipal, for example. have been to the Economics Committee meeting now. That is why I have chosen to say that I must then take leave of absence when I cannot attend the municipal meetings. I guess it's not abuse. I mean, I have taken leave and choose to be here in the Folketing when there is a meeting and we are discussing something that, by the way, I also think is important. I guess it's not abuse, and that's why it's not an investigation into abuse. It is more simply a question of whether it is reasonable that you should be hired to sit in two different places, even if you are only in one place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164844	That is absolutely right. I'm also in municipal politics, as you also know, and I'm doing both jobs at the same time. But it is not a question of abuse either. After all, it is a question of how it is being used, and it is a question of whether there is really a problem or whether it is just some isolated cases. I think it is important to clarify this before we stand here and change the rules, so I welcome the fact that the Minister has set in motion a work which will clarify this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164910	I just want to remind you that we're not using the you-form here in the Assembly Hall. Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164916	It is okay that we can have different views on whether you can do your job here in the Folketing at the same time. I do not think so. For example: I should have been at home for the Economics Committee meeting now, and then I should, you might say, have skipped from here. But if you choose to say that you want to just have one job and then take care of it properly, is it not reasonable and reasonable that you should not be paid from two places when you have actually taken time off from one place? Can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164944	I think that the questioner should be responsible for both the duties for which he has been elected. That is a different assessment, of course, that the questioner has made, but I do not really want to deal with that anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215164958	I'm gonna ask you a question, sir. Ole Birk Olesen wishes to speak. He does.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165004	Sir. Anders Johansson talks about abuse of the rules. I'd like to know, according to Mr. Is that abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165036	I can't relate to that. That must be a concrete assessment from the point of view of the matter. I do not know the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165043	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165045	But that's what the rules allow for. And it is reported, at least in the press, that at least one Conservative has taken advantage of it. For me, there is no doubt that this is an abuse of the rules. But I cannot be told by the Conservative rapporteur whether it is an abuse of the rules. On the contrary, the Conservative rapporteur will keep the rules as they are so that they can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165110	As I have said, I welcome the fact that the Minister is now having a closer look at the rules so that we can see if something needs to be changed. But until then, I think we should keep the rules as they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165118	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165129	This motion for a resolution is one in a long, long line, on which, frankly, I no longer have any figures anymore, of proposals from the Enhedslisten, in which we are trying to correct some of the quite obvious absurdities of the system for the remuneration of politicians in relation to ordinary people. And this is about changing the possibilities for city council politicians to take leave. According to Denmark's Radio, over the last two years almost 80 town council members have taken advantage of this absurd opportunity to take leave with pay, even though the leave was not justified by anything other than holidays or further education. It is therefore an option which, it must be said, does not exist too far, the vast majority of employees. There is no doubt that council members are working hard. One can even discuss whether they get enough help to lift the big job, that is to be a council member next to full-time work, which is what most people do. Of course, they must be compensated for the work around the country. It's a very important job, it's a really demanding job. And I would also like to reiterate that we in the Enhedslist believe that there is reason to consider whether they should be compensated further, i.e. more secretarial assistance to carry out the work of city council politician. Nor is there any doubt that it is quite fair that you can take maternity leave and that it is quite fair that you can be on sick leave without hitting you on your wallet. No one is suggesting that. But even if full pay during those periods is also something more than an average employee receives, that is not what we are trying to change here either. What is not reasonable is that city council members have the opportunity to go on vacation for several months or take a long training course and then still raise wages for a job they are not doing. It's just not fair, and it's not about not showing respect for the councilmen's work. It is about showing respect for the many people who work hard and pay to the big box of the community, because it is their money we spend. And it creates politicians, when you work a certain body part out of your pants day after day, pay your taxes to the community with pleasure and then see that there are politicians who can go on vacation at the community's expense. It's not okay. I would like to acknowledge and commend the Minister for wanting to examine the problem in greater detail. I think that's really good. This is more action than we have been able to pull out of many other politicians during the time of the many years in which we have tried to rectify some of the obvious injustices that exist. And we very much hope that we can somehow get a majority together. After all, there are several parties in this Chamber who have said today that they will certainly support the proposal, but that they would like to await the report of the Commission on Salaries. Some bets have even been made, I think I'm not quite sure what it is that is high on the table in the bets, but we can say a good dinner down in the Snapsting; at least we would like to include this on the Enhedslisten side • that the commission does not actually address the issue of the remuneration of city council politicians. And if we start counting sometime, I think it was both the Social Democrats and the Left who said that if the Commission didn't come up with a change to this, they would be very happy to look at it. If we say that the parties go home and read the mandate a second time before the second reading, which we in the Enhedslist will insist on getting in this Chamber, then it could be that it was not really an option to hide behind the Commission on this occasion, and that one then wanted to vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal. I certainly hope so. So I'll see you at the second reading in January.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165619	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165640	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215165703	The proposal we are now considering is intended to require the government, before the end of this parliamentary year, to change the rules on early retirement to Regional Council Presidents, so that former Regional Council Presidents, who are appointed ministers, lose the right to receive early retirement from the region. The reason for the proposal is that the proposers believe that the current rules do not provide for the appointment of regional council presidents as ministers. The proposers refer, inter alia, to: that the current rules ensure that a Regional Council President loses his or her right to early retirement if he or she takes up his or her post as mayor or again as President of the Regional Council, but that is not to say if he or she is appointed Minister. Let me start by saying that the government agrees with the authors of the proposal in the premise that, in all situations, the rules on early retirement for Regional Council Presidents as they are today do not seem appropriate. The rules on the remuneration of full-time politicians have not been looked at in the past, even on the pre-retirement rules. We have now seen that in practice situations may arise where the rules, as they are today, have proved inappropriate. I think we can all agree on that. The government wants to help ensure that we do not get into such a situation again. However, the Government considers that it would be inappropriate at this stage to lay down a specific solution for a single separate rule for the Presidents of the Regional Council in the overall administration of the politicians. In this connection, I would draw particular attention to the fact that the rules on early retirement for Regional Council Presidents correspond entirely to the rules on early retirement for mayors. A mayor loses his or her right to an early retirement if he or she becomes president of the Regional Council or becomes mayor again, but not if he or she is appointed Minister. In order to maintain parallel regulations, the Government considers it appropriate that a change in the rules on early retirement for regional council presidents should be made in the context of a simultaneous change in the rules on early retirement for mayors, so that former mayors, who are appointed as ministers, also lose the right to receive early retirement from the municipality. So, in the opinion of the government, this motion for a resolution is too narrow a solution to the problem. In March 2014, the government concluded an agreement with the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party on a more up-to-date and transparent administration of politicians. As a result of that agreement, as you know, the remuneration commission was set up. The Commission has the task of drawing up a proposal on how the overall execution of all full-time politicians, i.e. presidents of the regional councils, mayors, members of parliament and ministers, will look in the future. The Commission must look at all the elements of the overall policy-making process and therefore also at the rules on early retirement to which this resolution refers. The Commission's work is expected to be completed in the very near future. Against this background, the Government considers that a change to the rules on early retirement for Regional Council Presidents should await the overall recommendations of the remuneration commission. In the view of the government, it would therefore be inappropriate here and now to change one element of the overall remuneration rules. The government is therefore prepared, as we can see, to change the rules on early retirement to the Presidents of the Regional Council. The government believes, however, that this should be done in the context of a change in the rules on early retirement to the mayors, and that it should also await the expected overall proposal from the remuneration committee, and on that basis we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170125	There is one brief comment for the time being. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170131	I can understand the Minister's argument so far that because, and I recognise that, in our motion for a resolution, we should have included mayors and not just regional councils, one would like to wait a little longer. Of course, it's a mistake on our part, so the government just got a little fig leaf. That is the way things can work out, and that is why the Commission wants to look at the rules in context. Can the Minister now say from the platform that if the Commission does not come up with a change in what the Minister himself defines as an inappropriate hole, I think it was said, the government will be able to change the rules anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170220-2	There I can answer that I have not been looking for a fig leaf, but have just found that I consider the motion for a resolution to be inadequate, because it is in fact only the recommendations of regional council presidents that are being talked about. I believe that this should also concern the rules for mayors to be replaced in the event that they are appointed ministers. And I can confirm that if it does not turn out to be part of what the remuneration commission brings in, then I think we should have it changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170251	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170252	I think that is very good, and I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for being so ready. If, now, the Folketing agreed on this point that we do not think that regional council presidents or mayors should be given the opportunity to get a copy equivalent to what other people can get in cash if they have been given a new job such as this. Minister, could we not say that we are voting for this together? We could also not vote for it and then make a report in which we write down together that we think it is inappropriate. In this way, we would send a pretty clear signal to the remuneration commission. Anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170337-2	This is a very creative proposal. In fact, as the motion for a resolution is now before us, I think it is inadequate. That is why I would consider it a sensible idea not to start a second reading and put it to the vote. However, a report could be written in committee to clarify this, so that the clear signal is sent that we have found that, in this way, there is an inappropriateness in the current rules on the post-regulation of Regional Councils and Mayors. So I would like to make that clarification and then we can work together on what it should look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170416	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170419	Now, the Minister says, and I think that is quite excellent, that the proposal here is sympathetic, but that it is somewhat inadequate if you compare it with the rules for mayors. If, in isolation, you look at the rules in relation to the presidents of the regional councils and their ability to get a copy of them, what are the rules if, for example, they are: are members of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170442	Now I'm standing here messing with the papers to answer how they're getting an after-the-post as members of the parliament. And I believe that it is equal and that it is the same rules in relation to whether you get a ministerial post, i.e. that you also get your copy, if you become a parliamentarian. That is why my conclusion is again that the proposal as it stands here is inadequate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170509	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170510	Yes, that was also my conclusion after reading the law, but it is clear that it is probably better to get the Minister's comment and, of course, I understand that not all the paragraphs in the head are well known, even if we are discussing the proposal today. However, it is an important indication that what might be inadequate is not necessarily what the Minister mentioned, namely the equal position with mayors in relation to becoming ministers, but that there may also be other things, for example. This is something that I have now brought up, that is to say, membership of the Parliament and the possibility of getting a copy of it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170546	That is also why it was very nice to hear the clear expression of the authors of the motions that perhaps this motion for a resolution had gone a little fast. Because that is not really enough for the problem we have then been identified. Whether it is such a lex BT, or whatever we should call this motion for a resolution, you can judge for yourself. But at any rate it is merely an indication that what is here is inadequate and that we therefore do not support it. But there is support for a report to be made on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170619	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170620	I guess the right word is a lex holst, because it was prompted by the case of Mr. Holst. Carl Holst's double salary, so that would be the right term. And it was with good reason, I think, that it was responded to, because I think many Danes had difficulty understanding why you should be able to raise two salaries at once. I can easily understand these suggestions that it should also include mayors, and that is why we have a committee reading here in the Folketing. Because then you can go back and then you can also table amendments and other amendments. So in this committee we can easily amend this proposal with regard to the shortcomings that the Minister points out and then vote it through. So it is perhaps a little bit a fig leaf, which is more about waiting for this Commission, and there I just have one question. Is it not true that the parties that have adopted this Commission have also committed each other to voting in favour of what is coming as it is, without any change, and how does this relate to the Minister's statement that he would look at it afterwards, when it is not there? It's just to get an understanding of the deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170732	It is so that if it should turn out that there is nothing in the report by the Commission on remuneration, in relation to the transition from being the chairman of the regional council or mayor to becoming a minister or to becoming a member of the parliament, then there is a clear statement from me here that I think we should have this done, and that is why in principle I do not see it as crucial and simply hung up on the remuneration committee. But now there is a remuneration committee which is giving its report, and it is quite natural that we should wait for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170817	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170818	I think I would just like to thank you for the clear statement, which I think is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170824	The minister? There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215170839	Thank you. After all, we are a little on the same street as last time, but we are moving on to a proposal which deals with the post-retirement or early retirement of Regional Council Presidents. I just think it has to be said quite frankly and quite clearly that the events of the last six months have shown that there is a gap in the current rules and, as I read the proposal here, it is an attempt to close that gap and I therefore have great sympathy for that attempt to close the gap. However, I already think that the debate we have had here with the Minister and the rapporteurs and the authors of the Enhedslisten has shown that there is a risk of doing what we are often accused of doing in here, namely hooves legislation, that is to say, trying to close a hole, but then opening another hole, or creating other things that are suddenly not coherent. In practical terms, then, we have just identified two elements in the debate we have had here, and one is: what about the mayors? And the second is that it is one thing to become a minister, but what about becoming a member of the Folketing? I think that these are two important issues which must also be addressed in this proposal. In other words, if it is to be a question of securing it, of going from having been the chairman of the Regional Council to becoming a full-time politician, and it is, of course, both a minister and a member of parliament, then it should be logical for me to look at it and immediately be the same rules there, and it certainly shows very well why it was wise and good to have a commission made. And while there was a discussion on the previous proposal and excitement about the fact that there was also a bet in the Parliamentary Chamber on whether or not the commission wants the specific element, there is no doubt here, even as I hear the Minister, that this will be dealt with by the Commission, because they are simply responsible for doing so. I would even like to make that statement from us Socialists, and it is also on behalf of the Radical Left, which is unfortunately engaged in negotiations elsewhere right now that if it is the case that the Commission is not dealing with it here, then we will commit ourselves to finding a solution to close the gap that is being described here. However, we believe that it should be done in a way that does not have any other gaps or that it is not done properly. That is why I fully agree with the aim. And with regard to the Commission, we will have clarity within a few weeks so that we can ensure that we have the hole and holes that belong to the same category closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171130	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171131	So I would like to ask the Socialists and thank them for their speech: if we put forward the resolution, so that it involves both regional council presidents and mayors, and both if they become ministers and members of parliament, then we can also just make one where it says that we require the government to ensure that politicians cannot get what is equal to the daily allowance, while at the same time they are paid, will the Social Democrats vote in favour of that resolution? Or is it the existence of the risk of not discovering everything in the world that makes it impossible to legislate, and is it such a practice that the Socialists intend to pull over all the other work we are doing here? Because I'm worried we might not get that much out of hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171226	I think that the question may illustrate a little where we are on this issue. If, as the author of his own proposal at first reading, he says: if we had included three times as much, would we have hit everything? I know that Enhedslisten is a hard-working people, but if, at first reading alone after the first two speeches, some people have been appointed to be quite honest about their own proposal and you have to patch it up afterwards, it is perhaps a very, very clear and good illustration that it is wiser to wait until the Commission, which works and has done so for almost two years, comes to their conclusion in January. I wonder if that is not where we can be sure that the hole will be stopped effectively?
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171315	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171316	I think sir... Magnus Heunicke misunderstands me. I think our own proposal is a good one, because our proposal means that former Regional Council presidents should not be able to get what is called post-rejection, which means that ordinary people receive some allowances when they are fired from their jobs. I do not think that they should be allowed to get this after-treatment while at the same time receiving an inhumanely high salary as ministers. So let us make it clear that I think this is a good proposal. When sir... Magnus Heunicke so requests that we should have included in the proposal, that it should also apply if they are paid by parliament and that it should also include mayors, it is not because there is something wrong with this proposal, but because Mr. Magnus Heunicke would like to go even further, and I think that's just nice. So let us sit down together and make the report that the Minister just said the Minister thought was a good idea, where we write down, that we agree that we should not have double pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171415	It has to be said that developments may almost have overtaken the Enhedslisten's proposals here, because as far as the specific incident is concerned, they are no longer ministers. Now he has renounced his post-recommendation, which I think is wise, but now he has joined the Danish Parliament, and there he would, if we adopted Enhedslisten's proposal here, if he were interested in what he is then not, which is wise • still be able to raise this post-recommendation. It shows very well that it makes sense to look at it more carefully, and we would be happy to do so with the Minster, Enhedslisten and others. And I also think it would be wise to get the Commission's input on this. The aim is quite clear to us Socialists that the gap and the other gaps in this area must, of course, be stopped. There must be reasonableness in things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171505	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171506	I think it's a good day in many ways. Now we have been in the Enhedslisten for really, really many years struggling with this politics privilege. I do not think that is a secret to anyone: we have repeatedly put forward proposals on retirement age and post-employment and all sorts of other things. And to put it mildly, it has really been uphill. We have been voted down over and over again when we've tried to do something about that. That is why I simply think it is so positive that we are now in a situation in which the Socialist rapporteur not only supports the Enhedslisten's proposal, but actually wants the effect of it extended, in other words wants a more far-reaching proposal. It's really, really historic in this discussion. So I'd just like to sign for that. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur if we then have an agreement that, once this remuneration committee has come up with its result and the parties are not going to negotiate on it, I think they should just adopt what it comes up with, as far as I understand the agreement, we will tackle this if it is not resolved with that agreement. Is that what we need to understand? And then the rapporteur makes sure that we do not just take the Enhedslisten's proposal, but that the effect comes all the way around in every corner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171616	It's nice and happy to be able to please the Enhedslisten. It's not always that I've been able to do it in my career, but it makes me very happy to be able to do it. I'd like to be able to answer yes to this. I would also like to say that, as I understand it, and this must then be my own interpretation of what the Minister was saying, it was, in fact, also a desire to extend it not only to outgoing regional councillors, but also to outgoing mayors, in the event that they were to take up office as ministers or perhaps as members of parliament. So I actually think it has to be said that Enhedslisten does not have a monopoly on wanting fair terms. Perhaps there has been a specific case that should have led to it being topical, but it has to be said that the good thing is that work has already been started, which has been completed here in January, where we can see everything in such a sensible context.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171711	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171713	Thank you for your answer. I heard it as a confirmation that you will look at it afterwards if it was missing. I do not know whether I fully understand the agreement on the remuneration commission, but, as I understand it, it has been said to each other that what lies is adopted. However, the indication that you will look at this area also means that if the solution of the Service Commission now also contains something that, what can be said, does not solve some of the other problems we have discussed, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment and for the excellent work done by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171751-2	No, what I have replied specifically to here is the concrete proposal that Enhedslisten has made, where I believe that Enhedslisten does not go far enough to ensure fair conditions and close some gaps that have clearly emerged. That is the concrete one to which I have replied here. I do not think it makes sense to start a major debate on a Commission proposal which, for very good reasons, we do not yet know because they have not yet made it. But when it comes, I am sure that we will have that debate as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171821	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171830	In the Danish People's Party we also think it is a good day. We are discussing some really exciting issues. If or not, the proposal will get the debate under way. It is true, as both the Minister and the previous rapporteurs who have been on say, that there is probably little missing from this. That is why the Danish People's Party would actually like to table an amendment during the committee procedure, which also means that neither mayors nor regional president will be paid when they move from one political office to another. And, as before, we will nod to the fact that if you did not become a minister, you would simply become a member of the Folketing. And we in the Danish People's Party will also ask: what if you become a European parliamentarian? It could also be part of it. So we would very much like this to be verified and dealt with and extended to include committee chairmen in the city council, because it is also a form of posture that you get there for three months and that you cannot say no to if you go from one political office to another. So we would say quite briefly that we are positive about having had the debate today and that we would very much like to work on it here in committee and that we would also like to table an amendment which goes somewhat further than what the proposers are proposing here. So we look forward to the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215171958	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172013	The proposal we are now debating is about what is right and proper when you go from one political top position to another political top position. As the rules are currently, there is a possibility of double remuneration if, as chairman of the Regional Council or for that matter as mayor, one goes and is so fortunate or unlucky, if one wishes, to become a minister. Of course, that needs to be changed. As long as I am active in politics, it may well annoy me that several years ago we did not have more focus on making these rules more uniform when we look at the consequences they have on the public perception of us politicians. Unfortunately, antiquated rules on post-regulation are not something that promotes our image, and we must, unfortunately, be true to say that we are facing a serious image crisis. It is therefore only positive that we are already working on concrete measures to clarify how we can make the best possible rules for politicians' remuneration. Here, of course, I am talking about the remuneration commission, which we also talked about under the previous agenda item. The purpose of the remuneration commission is to draw up proposals as to how the overall post-determination should be for mayors, regional council presidents, members of parliament and ministers. The end of the Commission is therefore just ahead of us. As early as January, they will be completed, and that is why I am also pleased that we in the Parliamentary Chamber are now allowed to discuss what we should do after the end of the Commission. So we could describe today's motion for a resolution and the debate we have as a kind of round of warming before dealing with the recommendations made by the Pay Commission just after New Year. Here there will be a global recommendation on remuneration, which we saw here in the Things then have to take a position on. In this context, I should like to make a small contribution to the authors of the Enhedslisten, because I might find it a little difficult to understand the need for us to adopt this motion for a resolution here and now, after which the government has to make a special law, which means that exactly the Regional Council Presidents lose the right to receive early retirement if they become ministers. Does the Enhedslisten believe that there is an imminent danger that a new Regional Council President will be appointed Minister in the next few weeks before the Pay Commission makes its recommendations? Because if that were the case, I could of course understand that people were busy, but I know that is not the case. That is why the position of the Left is clear. We support the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, but we therefore believe that it is worth waiting for the remuneration commission, which we have set up ourselves, and look at what they might make of recommendations before we start making laws on each component of the current remuneration rules. It would be unwise before we have a comprehensive picture of the challenges we face. As has already been mentioned, then, there is a similar challenge to be faced by regional council presidents who will be ministers. And the same would be true if it were a mayor who became a minister. So what if you're going to be someone else politically appointed to a top position in the EU, or what do I know? Should we then also have the possibility of double standards? I think we should see things in context, and with what I have just said in mind, I can have a little doubt as to whether the proposers have so really focused on the whole issue of post-regulation, or whether they have just taken advantage of the opportunity, a random folk atmosphere about one special former Regional Council President, to promote themselves. Having said that, it is of course important that we change the rules. Basically, the idea is not to be paid when you become a minister, and therefore neither mayors nor Regional Council Presidents should be able to receive reimbursement if they go from one leading post to another. The fact that we in the Parliamentary Chamber may disagree on whether it is ourselves who should make recommendations about our own salary or whether a commission without any connection to the Folketing is a better forum to discuss this kind of thing in is, of course, as it is. The Left basically believes that this kind of thing is best done if we get somebody else to look at it and we do not ourselves sit and adopt our own pay. We support the intentions of the motion for a resolution. But for the reasons I have mentioned, we are not voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172444	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172448	To start with the small sticking pill that the rapporteur gave on a specific individual matter, I can answer in the affirmative right away that it was when the former defence minister, Carl Holst from the Left, received double pay as both minister and deputy president of the Regional Council that we became aware in the Enhedslist of how unreasonable those rules are, and that is why, of course, we are proposing to change the rules. Had we been aware that the gap in the law existed, we would have made that proposal far, far earlier, but it is quite true that it was when Carl Holst raised double wages that we became aware of it and that that is the occasion. There is no shame in that, on the contrary, we are trying to clean up, I think, and that is only something we can be proud of. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with his minister that it is a good idea for us to draw up a report so that we can jointly conclude that these rules must be changed, both in the case of Regional Councils and mayors.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172556	I am delighted, on behalf of Mrs Pernille Skipper, that Enhedslisten is proud of herself and the fantastic work being done here in the Danish Parliament. I think that's nice, but the opposite would be too bad. I don't know if a story is right. I am just saying that I think that we should look at things in the context, and it is not, by the way, forbidden when one becomes aware of a single case, to think a little further and then perhaps ask some questions to the Minister. Are there others where the same applies? Because then it would have been possible to find out for yourself that this also applies to mayors. It is also allowed to look up in Karnov and not only to look up in BT when making politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172637	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172640	It is also permissible to read through the annexes to a motion for a resolution because if the rapporteur had done so, the rapporteur would know that Enhedslisten has asked questions to the Minister and the Minister has not answered the question so fully that this information is included. Well, it's also completely irrelevant. What I asked was whether the rapporteur agrees with his minister that it is a good idea for us to draw up a joint report in which we are written that it is the wish of the Danish Parliament that neither mayors nor Regional Council Presidents should be able to receive double remuneration when they join as Minister or Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172721	I mean, if I had read Enhedslisten's remarks! I have 22 lines, it does not take many seconds to read the Enhedslisten's comments on the proposal, so of course I have read them. I also say that I agree with the intentions behind the proposal, but then I just say that it is not fully thought out, it is not well worked out. It may be that Enhedslisten is proud of his work, I wouldn't be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172755	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172807	Again, thank you to the Enhedslisten for a fine motion for a resolution. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to ensure that a former President of the Regional Council, who is appointed as Minister, does not at the same time have the right to receive early retirement from the region so that he receives double remuneration. We support this in the Liberal Alliance. Now there has been some debate. The Minister has asked: What about the mayors? The Socialists have asked: what if you become a member of parliament? And the Danish People's Party has asked about MEPs. So we think it is a good idea either to work on it in committee or to make a report. Nevertheless, we think we can support this proposal, even if there are intentions to do more. You can do that, because of course these rules need to be changed. It's screaming to heaven. In the Liberal Alliance, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172911	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215172934	Thank you. The Enhedslisten proposes that regional council presidents lose the right to receive early retirement from the region if they become ministers. It supports the alternative. Now, this suggests that there is a consensus on the way to which we need to continue working in the committee, which may in fact end up with no politicians having to receive daily allowances while they are being paid. In that case, I would say that it supports the alternative as well. And if the forthcoming remuneration committee results in several proposals aimed at reducing the unjustified financial privileges of elected representatives, then the alternative also supports it. In the first place, we support the Enhedslisten. We think it is good to get the debate going on about the fairness of politicians' privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215173023	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see anyone from the Radical Left immediately, so that is why it is the SF's rapporteur, Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215173058	I will be relatively brief. SF looks with great sympathy at the proposal from the Enhedslisten that the resignation of Regional Council Presidents should not receive pre-retirement wages from the region if they are appointed ministers. We believe, however, that the authors of the proposals could have preferred to have waited until after the Commission had completed their work, both because the Commission has been instructed to look at the possible follow-up of the Regional Council presidents, and because the work of the Commission has not been completed, it is just around the corner, I assume, but also because there must be 90 mandates to change the rules. And the hard reality of the iron industry is that a very large majority has decided that no changes to the rules will be made until the Commission has completed its work. In the SF we generally have the starting point that politicians' salary, remuneration, remuneration should reflect the world in which we live. Therefore, there should be no doubt whatsoever that the SF is ready to clean up all the injustices that may be there. This means, as has been said, that the reimbursements must be set off at 100% from day one, whatever they may be, for example, if you are appointed minister. For the sake of order, I should also like to say that we are also saying a clear 'no' to golden handshakes and large increases in wages. It will also be the SF's approach in the further work of the Committee on Enhedslisten's proposal, which I certainly think we should continue with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215173238	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215173252	Thank you. We have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal and, as a result, we agree with it very much, but we also think, like many others before me, that it is wise to wait for the light of this Commission to come to light. So when we are against the resolution, it should not be seen as an expression that we are generally opposed to changing the rules in this area, because everyone here has seen in the case that has been before that there is at least a need to look at them. But we will await the work of the Pay Commission. I would also like to say that if the remuneration commission does not have a look at this, we will certainly be ready to do something about it if, contrary to expectations, it is not part of the outcome of the Commission. So we support the intention of the proposal, but we would like to see a comprehensive picture before we take a position on changing the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215173347	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215173407	This proposal is actually very simple. It is a motion for a resolution which must put an end to yet another blatant absurdity in the rules on the remuneration of politicians. It is true, as several of us have tried to suggest, and as we are glad to say openly, that the occasion is a very specific matter, in which the former Minister for Defence, Mr. Carl Holst received a post-retirement, also called "pre-retirement," from his former work as Regional Council President, while receiving a very, very sizable salary from the work of Secretary of Defense. It is double pay, it is unfair and it is an indecent use of Community money, no matter how small the amount is in the larger accounts. There are many other situations where politicians can scratch in the shepherd twice. A number of speakers have mentioned that this is also true of mayors, and perhaps this is also true of Members of this House. I can reveal that it is also the case that it is possible for former ministers to receive their ministerial pension while still sitting away in the Folketing and receiving parliamentary approval. We think that is unfair too. I can also confirm that this is not part of the proposal that is before us today, but a proposal which we in the Enhedslist have tabled much earlier and which has been voted down by a majority in the Folketing for inscrutable reasons. I honestly do not understand, if I may say so, the argument that has emerged here today, which is that because this proposal only means that part of the injustices will be cleared up, it is not good enough for us to clean up everything at once. And I have to say that I do not understand, and I have those who say so suspected a little to try to get away with once again defending privileges to one's own, even on the same day when we have voted to raise the retirement age for ordinary people. What I think is a bonus today is that all the parties in the Folketing have actually said that they support the intention of the proposal, and that means that there should be a hundred per cent agreement that at some point we will change these rules. The Left asked whether we in the Enhedslist feared that there would be a former Regional Council President as new mayor in such a short space of time that it would not be possible to wait for the recommendations of the Pay Commission. I would say that I fear many things in relation to what the Left intends to appoint ministers, and that is clearly one of them. But we can at least hear now that there is a sovereign majority in favour of changing the rules and that we must evidently arm ourselves with patience for some technical reason. But what Enhedslisten wants, of course, is to have a report in committee so that we can make clear what everyone in here has actually said, namely that it should not be possible to receive double pay. When you raise the statute as the President of the Regional Council, it has to disappear when you get a new job, whether as a minister or as a politician. And, by the way, we all think that should also apply to mayors. So I would suggest that in the work of the committee we either write down a report or make amendments or what we can come up with of technical possibilities, but that we at least stand together on that agreement. If we are to take the floor from the platform for good goods, there is at least a sovereign majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215173757	Thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and rapporteur for the proposers. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151215173817	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 16 December 2015, at 6 pm. 9. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
