ParlaMint-DK_20151112100021	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment and Food (Eva Kjer Hansen): Bill no. L 57 (Proposal for a law amending the Food Law. Bill No. L 58 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on cultivation, etc.) of genetically modified crops and the law on the environment and genetic engineering). Bill No. L 59 (Proposal for a law repealing the law on peripheral areas). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151112100057	Kirsten Brosbøl (S) has applied for leave from 12 November 2015, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a), while Kaare Dybvad (S) applied for leave from 13 November 2015, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112100137	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party of East Jutland, Male Larsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 12 November 2015, on the occasion of Kirsten Brosbøl's leave, and that the First Deputy of the Social Democracy of the Sjællands Storkreds, Ole Hækkerup, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 13 November 2015, on the occasion of Kaare Dybvad's leave, as the first Deputy of Kasper Roug has already been appointed as a temporary member of the Folketing of Astrid Krag. Should Astrid Krags's leave cease before Kaare Dybvad's leave, Kasper Roug shall continue to replace Kaare Dybvad. Does anyone wish to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112100234	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112100259	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112100346	The reason why I am speaking here at the third reading is that, at the end of the legislative process, there was a lack of clarity which I hope the Minister will be able to clarify. After all, the draft law refers to the postponement of the limitation period for a number of recovery proceedings in the SKAT due to the problems of the recovery system, which means that a hump has been collected, as it were. There are a lot of problems with this, legal problems and other issues which I have mentioned in my speech at first reading and, moreover, at committee reading, but there is a very specific issue which concerns the importance of the draft law in relation to claims for reimbursement under the Act on Active Social Policy, Article 95, or Section 165 of the Services Act, that is to say, that which does not concern tax debts but typically concerns the recovery of old-age pensioners and early retirement pensioners, cash aid recipients, etc. That's why I just have some very specific questions that I hope the Minister will take care of if he points his ears and gives us an answer. The first question is: Where is the legal basis for the withdrawal rule under the Act on Active Social Policy, Section 95, and Section 165 of the Services Act, respectively, to cease to have effect when the claim is transferred to SKAT? That is the first question. The second question is: can the Minister explain whether he believes that there is a difference between obsolescence rules relating to recovery, in other words legal certainty in relation to SKAT, and then withdrawal rules under social legislation, which is of course about whether there are limits to how long exposed citizens who have no ability to pay should continue to have a refund obligation on a social benefit? There are quite different bases for the two, and what is the question is whether it has been taken into account in this legislative proposal? I mean, if a municipality, for example... in breach of the rules, has submitted a refund claim under the Act on Active Social Policy, § 95, or § 165 of the Services Act to be collected from SKAT, even if the citizen receives cash benefits or early retirement as the sole income, will SKAT, by means of this legislation, ensure that the rules on cancellations are complied with and the payment is not recovered when more than 3 years and 5 years respectively have elapsed from the end of the aid? So it is simply a question of how this bill affects the rules governing recovery in relation to social benefits. I hope the Minister will be able to give an answer on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112100610	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112100613	First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that it has ended up in the end, at least if you read the report, that all parties in the Folketing can see themselves in this bill. The fact is that over a number of years we have not had an effective recovery system, and now that we have pulled the plug for the Star War IT project, which has not worked and on which too many tax dollars have already been spent, we therefore have to create a temporary recovery organisation, and as a result there is a challenge that there is a lot of money, among other things. tax debts that are not recovered. If debt is not recovered, then it is all those who pay their tax debts who have to pay what is not coming in, and it is for the sake of those who pay their taxes and other debts to the public that we have tabled this bill to break off the obsolescence of many of these claims. A number of questions have been raised from the Enhedslisten, and a large number of committee questions have also been raised in connection with the legislative proposal. And I have to say that the very specific legal questions of this kind, with specific examples, do not want to answer here from Parliament's platform, but I am happy to reply afterwards. There has been plenty of opportunity to ask in committee, and one of the questions has also been asked in the end, and there are others. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Pelle Dragsted, which is about whether it is correct to understand that the draft law merely refers to the postponement of limitation periods under the obsolescence law, while the rules on the cancellation of debts after, for example, Section 95 of the Social Policy Act and Section 165 of the Services Act are still in force. And that is where I reply, and I will do the same here from the speaking chair of the Folketing, that it is not correct. The proposal to postpone the limitation period shall cover all claims in the course of recovery with SKAT on 19 November or later, with the limitation period for such claims not earlier than 20 November 2018. This applies regardless of whether the limitation period is governed by the law on limitation or other legislation. The repayment requirement under Article 95 of the Act on Active Social Policy shall lapse after three years after the end of the aid, without the economic possibility of implementing the claim. However, if the municipality has sent the claim for recovery with SKAT because a fixed repayment scheme has been breached, the claim is subject to the general rules of the barring order law, including rules on interruption of limitation periods. Similarly, for claims for repayment under Section 165 of the Social Services Act, the deadline is 5 years. And I do not believe that, although I understand that this is what Enhedslisten wants, there is a basis for making exceptions to this in favour of certain debtors or types of claims. The recovery legislation has already taken special account of low-income debtors, i.e. typically in cases where they are expected to have no ability to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112100907	Thank you. Does anyone else want to speak? Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112100917	I have, of course, read the answers given by the Minister and I am well aware of what is being said, but can the Minister guarantee that there is a legal basis for neglecting it? Because what is at issue here is precisely that the purpose of this social legislation is for people who really do not have a means of payment to be exempted from this requirement after a certain period of time. In other words, is there a legal basis for disregarding that consideration in relation to this change, which is basically about the recovery of tax debts, where it is more a matter of legal certainty that is raised as the problem? I mean, it's like you pile up two things that have a very different basis. So can we, as Parliament, be sure that the legal basis for this is in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101006	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101008	Yeah, I guess so, but I'll be happy to check it out. But with all due respect for Enhedslisten's questions, I can't do that here from Parliament's platform after the five minutes that have passed from Mr. Pelle Dragsted asked the question and it is a rather complicated legal question which I cannot answer here. But we'll settle that later. However, I do not think there is anything in the questions that are the answer to, or in the legislative proposal as such and the material that is the reason why we should not be able to take a position on this bill at this time, and that is why my recommendation to the parties of the Folketing is to vote in favour of the proposal and then we have to clarify the follow-up issues that exist. This is typically the case in the case of legislative proposals. But I also have to say that I cannot go into the basic premise of the Enhedslisten that there are such groups that we must now give them extra special treatment when we give them special treatment in advance, by the fact that in low-income groups we are typically not counted as a payment institution and thus we are not drawn in the form of wage content and other things. To go down that road I do not want to go down that road at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101113	Sir. Pelle Dragsted? He's satisfied with the answer. As no one else wishes to speak, we shall proceed to the vote on Bill No. L 18.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101122	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. The bill has been passed unanimously by 111 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101145	For the sake of the new Members, I would like to point out that this third reading of amendments takes place in two stages. First we take the debate on the amendments and then we vote on the amendments. Secondly, we take the debate on the proposal as a whole and then vote on the proposal as a whole. The debate is therefore primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, there is. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101244	Thank you. After all, eight amendments have been tabled here at the third reading by the Enhedslisten, and the comments on the amendments show that at the same time the parties voting in favour of the amendments commit themselves to holding a referendum in the event that future decisions on sovereignty under the electoral system affect a number of different situations, such as: legal certainty and the right to strike. Of course, this presupposes that the five sixths majority in the Folketing cannot be found, as the Constitution requires for the surrender of sovereignty. The Danish People's Party can support the amendments. The Danish People's Party still believes in principle that the procedures for the surrender of sovereignty contained in section 20 of the Constitution should be followed when Denmark is to surrender sovereignty. It should not be postponed to a late afternoon in the Committee on European Affairs. At the second reading of the proposal we heard, among other things. The Legal Rapporteur of the Conservatives, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, say that his party might be in favour of a referendum in the event of far-reaching changes, but at the same time one can read from the comments that the Conservative People's Party is not even in cases where the election of a legislative act threatens the legal certainty of the Danes, voted to hold a referendum. Therefore, I must say that I would like to know whether Mr. Rasmus Jarlov today... Rasmus Jarlov had a few days to think about the possibility of giving just one example in addition to the asylum area where the Conservatives imagine that the Danes should be heard in a referendum. I think that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov owes the Danes an answer to when the Conservatives' promise of a referendum is updated if ever • when the Conservatives have presented themselves as the Sceptical Danes' guarantor that too much sovereignty is not given over to L 29. In the Danish People's Party we take the Constitution very seriously. When the Constitution speaks of the fact that the surrender of sovereignty can only take place to a certain extent, and only in the event that the majority of five sixths in the Folketing or a majority in a referendum has expressed this wish, that is the way it should be. Then, of course, a majority should not be able to decide that the Danes can authorise a majority in the European Committee of the Regions permanently to be able to give up sovereignty indefinitely, with the far-reaching consequence that sovereignty can never be withdrawn from the European Union. I understand that the Danish Parliament's 'yes' parties are largely indifferent to the surrender of sovereignty and, I think, only perceive the nation states as a curious historical curiosity whose time is running out. However, the Conservatives have, at least in words at second reading, expressed some respect for the constitution and the national state, and the Conservatives are in the special situation of the party taking part in the musketeered given each other by the 'yes' parties and thus, at least in principle, being able to block the election of legislative acts. Then the Conservatives also owe it to them to show action and explain to the Danes when in their optics it might become relevant with a referendum that brought Mr. Rasmus Jarlov himself in the field at second reading when the Conservatives will not promise a referendum in cases where, for example, the Conservatives do not want to see a referendum. The legal certainty of the Danes or workers' rights is at stake. But of course the Danish People's Party supports the principles underlying Enhedslisten's proposal and section 20 of the Constitution and can therefore of course support the amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101632	The rapporteur needs to stay here for a while. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101642	I would like to respond directly to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's question: we have said that if we endorse something in the area of asylum and refugee policy, we will have a referendum. We have said this very, very clearly on the part of both the Left, the Conservatives and the Socialists. So that is at least one example, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth asked for it. I can also mention one more thing: if, for example, we wanted to join all legal acts in the area of justice, I would also say that it was fair to have a referendum on it. So yes, you can imagine some examples where it would be reasonable, but it is very difficult to define such a very concrete one. And I think that the proposal here that there should be a referendum every time you make the slightest technical change to a legal act is too cumbersome. It binds us too much, it prevents us from agreeing to some legal acts that will benefit the Danes, and that is why we do not think that it is a good amendment that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101743	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov for that answer, it was almost a rapporteur's speech worthy of it turning things up here a bit. Well, I can't ask Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov question, but I can at least note that the promise made by Mr. Rasmus Jarlov gave to the people, can now be confined to the fact that referendums for the Conservatives are in two cases, and that is in the event that asylum and immigration policy is to be surrendered, and in the case that Denmark chooses to take, as it were, the whole package, that is to say, all legal acts in the field of aliens, in the field of asylum, in the field of justice. First of all, the Conservatives' proposal for a referendum is being updated. It's not worth much, but the people know that now, and it was nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101831	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101833	It's wrong. It was just one, no, actually two examples. I was asked to give a single example by Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, and I came with two, but that does not exclude that there could then not also be referenda in other situations. We just don't want to define it precisely in advance and define it as much as the Danish People's Party wants, in that every time there is even the slightest technical change compared to, for example, a law on Internet commerce or a law on how Danish companies recover debts from German companies, then there must be a referendum. We do not think this is in line with Danish democratic tradition, and it will also be incredibly difficult and I do not think the Danes can see the purpose of it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101917	Nevertheless, it would be in good agreement with the Constitution, and after all, the Constitution is not entirely unimportant, either for my party or for the Conservatives, hopefully for others. But I have to say once again that I find it very difficult here to be able to use the promise of the Conservatives to a great extent, because it seems that the Conservatives do not really have the opportunity to say clearly what they want. In other words, why does one not want a referendum when there are principles of legal certainty at stake? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101950	Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112101955	I wanted to hear in all silence, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, if he does not agree with me that it is a little bit problematic that the Conservatives' rapporteur should stand down and present the Conservatives' proposals and thus, what can be said, deprive us of the opportunity to ask the Conservative rapporteur questions on this matter. For that is what we would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112102018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112102020	At any rate, I would say that it is quite unusual for us to choose to keep our rapporteur's speech out of its place, because it has precisely the consequence, as Mrs Pernille Skip says, that we other people do not have the opportunity to put questions to the rapporteur. I hope that it will not be such a permanent procedure in the Folketing, because then we will have some strange debates, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112102041	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112102058	First of all, I should like to say that I do not think we should take our sorrows in advance. I'm sure sir. Rasmus Jarlov goes up here and gives his rapporteur's speech a little later on to these amendments, so that we have the opportunity to ask questions. I assume that is a matter of course; anything else would be completely unreasonable. So we're gonna get it done that way. Then there are the amendments we are proposing here, because they are amendments and new proposals. What is their background? Well, the reason is that at second reading we had put forward a very general proposal which was that when sovereignty was given in the legal field in future, there should be a referendum or a five-sixth majority, that is to say. a broad majority, in the Folketing. It was, of course, in order to withdraw the aspect of the debate that was about the fact that it was not really the 22 legislative acts that we voted on that it was not really the 10 rejected acts that we voted on, because what we are really voting on is that the 'yes' parties want to choose anything forever and in an unlimited area of legal policy. If there had been a majority in favour of our proposal, that discussion would have been concluded and it would have been clear that we voted on the 22 legislative acts and not on stealing sovereignty from the people. All right, that was then a majority, a small majority, who rejected; fortunately many parties voted in favour of it, and I was very pleased about that. However, there was a small majority rejecting it and thus confirming that the vote we have now is not about the 22 legislative acts, but that it is about all the future sovereignty that you want to give and which you want to prevent the people from taking a stand on. Then we discussed it in the Enhedslisten, and then we thought: God damn it, this is serious, because there are some areas that matter to people's everyday lives; there are some areas that matter to people's lives. Can it really be true that the 'yes' parties will take the opportunity from people to say 'yes' or 'no' in those areas through a referendum? Can that really be true? That's why we tried to tell ourselves, where are our red lines? And we then found seven red lines where we say: if you go over them and choose legislation, if you choose EU legislation in these areas, then we must at least expect the people to have the opportunity to decide on it in a referendum. So what are these areas? Yes, it is if, for example, there is. is adopted a legal act which limits the Danish right to strike in relation to the current Danish legislation. Then we will be sure that there will be a referendum. Or that is, if a European Public Prosecutor is introduced, that is not some theory, because the establishment of it is currently being negotiated, and we then say that it is not something to be elected by the European Committee, whether we should have a European Public Prosecutor, it is something to be elected by the people. That is why, of course, there must be a referendum if that is to be discussed. Or that is, if there is to be a legal act that undermines children's rights in Denmark; then, of course, there must also be an opportunity to have a referendum. Or that is if it is a piece of legislation that in some way diminishes the rights of people, for example. For a parent couple who come from different EU countries, a homosexual married couple, i.e. parents of the same sex, it should be a Danish tradition to say that we cannot do that without the people accepting it. Or that is if we are to transfer competence from Danish courts to EU decisions. Is it not entirely logical for anyone that, if jurisdiction is to be transferred from Danish courts to EU authorities in the field of justice, that is not something that has to be done through some agreement in the European Committee? This is something that must either have broad support in the Folketing or a referendum in which the people must be asked. Or that is, if you reduce the citizens' legal guarantee in relation to the legislation in force... shouldn't the public be asked? Or that is if we have a limitation on equality between parents, for example. In the case of divorces, including parents of the same sex, should there not be a popular feeling about it? These were some red lines we set up. And what we are appealing to here in the Danish Parliament is that the red lines become the red lines of the Folketing, that we say that if there is a transfer of power to the European Union in these areas, then the people must be allowed to take a position on it. Isn't that very reasonable? We think so. In any case, it is clear that if it is rejected by the Folketing, it will leave the next three weeks in total chaos. For then we have to say that there are apparently some who will not promise the people that they will be asked in this case. In other words, we may risk that if some of these issues come up, the people will not be asked. So, in fact, for the sake of the forthcoming debate, but above all, of course, for the sake of the legal certainty of the people, I hope that all the parties in the Danish Parliament today support the very concrete amendments tabled by Enhedslisten, which therefore mean something quite concrete for the daily lives of the citizens. We have also tabled an amendment to the title, and that is more because we think the title should reflect its content. We did the same at second reading. Some people then thought that our amendment to the title at second reading became as propagandistic as the yes side's proposal, and we did not want that to happen. I mean, I can't believe we're supposed to be acting like the yes side of indiscretion. So that's why we thought we'd have to find a neutral headline. And then we found the Court of Justice Association. The Legal Affairs Association had made a completely neutral draft of a heading which we have simply put forward as a proposal here; good lawyers have helped and have said that it is an expression of a decent title to the legislative proposal that we have to deal with above all here. So I also hope that the majority of the Danish Parliament will support the idea that we should not have a propagandist headline for the forthcoming referendum, because we should have a headline covering what the discussion is about. And we choose the one mentioned by the Court of Justice Association in their hearing response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112102741	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party, has asked for a brief comment. Then we'll just wait a minute. There is a question from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112102754	This speech and Mr. Søren Søndergaard's amendments show very well what kind of campaign is being run by Enhedslisten, where all sorts of hypothetical questions are raised. What can happen can happen, what can happen, yes, there can indeed be a lot happening in this world. But it is completely out of the realm. This referendum is about something much more concrete that we are going to vote on, and that is why I think it is irresponsible that, both here and in general terms, we should be driving into all kinds of hypothetical situations that we might imagine and that we should then have a referendum on. But do not impress Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that many of those examples are being shot down, most recently today with regard to the criminal low age that various legal experts in Berlingske are shooting down, and where they say that it is completely out in hemp, that you are driving forward with the example and that the other examples are in fact also out in hemp?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112102901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112102902	Now I'm just gonna do sir. Holger K. Nielsen is aware that the question of the age of crime is not one of the amendments we are voting on here. It is just more for information to the SF's rapporteur. But I think, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has a point. Many of the things we warn against in the Enhedslisten are being shot down by experts. And then the people must feel in themselves, based on the experience of the EU system, whether what has happened when they have been promised some kind of nuts we break ourselves, the EU does not interfere with the right to strike, the European Union will never have any influence on child money, etc. You just have to feel for yourself how you feel about it, because this referendum is, after all, about us surrendering the power that people have today to politicians. Clearly, if you have full confidence that politicians will manage that power properly, then there is no problem. If you do not, and if you think there are examples of the opposite, then I think you should consider voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103014	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103016	That's very good: these are just feelings; you have to feel on your heart; you have to feel on your body; do I feel this is okay? Mr. Søren Søndergaard is not, also as left-wing, that there should be some rationality in this discussion, some political rationality, that we are discussing facts, and not how Mr. Søren Søndergaard's heart beats for that and that and that? This is, of course, reflected in a form of populism which I think, in my view, the left should stay away from. We should be discussing how it actually is, instead of feeling, like Mr. Søren Søndergaard is driving into.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103100	Now I would say that if I were in the shoes of the rapporteur exactly, perhaps I would not be quite so cocky. Well, Mr. Does the K. Nielsen people feel that the EU could interfere with the Danish children's money? Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that the EU has interfered in the right to strike and declared a strike in Sweden not uncompromising, but illegal and ordered the trade union concerned to pay a huge penalty because they fought for foreign workers in Sweden to have exactly the same thing as Swedish workers? Did they warn you about that? Or is the reality that we have seen time and again that the promises that have come have not kept? That is what the people have to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103145	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur who has asked for the floor is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103203	I would just like to explain how we intend to vote on the amendments tabled by Enhedslisten for the third reading. After all, the amendments will throw out policy areas that will have to be voted on in the future if legislative acts are adopted, just as the government's proposals on Tuesday would do in the area of refugees and asylum. We have said many times before that we would very much like to see us holding indicative referendums on legislative acts in the future when we move sovereignty. That was also the reason why, at second reading, we voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal on the very principle that we hold indicative referendums. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that we cannot vote in favour of or against the amendments tabled here. For us, it is in principle that there should be these indicative referenda. It is neither up to a government party nor to the Enhedslisten to choose specific policy areas. If we do not want to vote against it anyway, it is because we actually appreciate and acknowledge Enhedslisten's attempt to push this agreement in a more transparent direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103315	The first question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103320	Thank you. I have to say that the alternative's position puzzles me. In other words, I thought that the alternative was very much in favour of holding a referendum. And the reason why we have tabled this proposal in the Enhedslisten is of course very, very real concern. If we take Amendment No 1 quite specifically. 5 to ensure that if there is a retrograde step in the area oflgbt rights, there must be a referendum, then that is a real concern. After all, we see that Denmark is one of the few pioneer countries in the European Union in this area, while at the same time there are major backwards among Eastern European and Central European Member States. So why not give the Danes a guarantee that they can be asked in this area in a referendum? I think it is obvious that the alternative should support Enhedslisten's proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103417	I can assure you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen that we are very concerned about lgbtqi rights, even when it is at European level. But for us it is a matter of principle that we should like to see these votes. That is why we voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the Enhedslisten, the author's own party, at second reading. But we don't think it's up to a party, neither Enhedslisten nor Left, to pick out a few pieces and say: Now this is the most important thing. We believe that it is in principle that we should have indicative referendums when we adopt future legislative acts, and we intend to work for this, also subsequently, and of course to propose when we adopt legislative acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103454	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103456	I just have to understand it correctly, because the problem we have often had in this Chamber is that there is not a majority to ask the people. Well, that is one of the things that Enhedslisten and the Alternative have said: let us ask the people much more. Is the alternative not concerned that a majority in this Parliament will not ask the people? And why not, for example, give this guarantee to the citizens in precisely the region of Glbtq, where we have a great deal of fear, which I think is justified, that there may be a deterioration in the rights of the Danes in relation to what it is like today if the reservation of law is abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103533	I can assure you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen that we are still very concerned about asking the people, but we think it is in principle. And, of course, we must work politically to convince our fellow Members in this Chamber of this. But it is not something where we can pick out a few areas and say that this is just the most important thing, even though I am also concerned about rights, for example for lgbtqi people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103557	The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103600	The LGBTqi area is, after all, one area we have chosen as a matter of principle. It could be said that if there are any violations of rights in this area, we promise a referendum. We could also take the issue of fundamental principles of legal certainty. This is also an area we have chosen out. What I understand from the rapporteur's arguments is that we want referendums, but as long as it cannot be in all areas every time sovereignty is given, there will be no referendums in any area. Is that how you're supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103648	No, Mrs Pernille Skipper has not fully understood what I said. After all, we voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's amendments at second reading, which dealt with holding referendums in future legislative elections. What we are saying now and here to explain why we cannot vote for this is that we think it is not up to the Enhedslisten to choose out seven areas on which there will then be a referendum. We believe that this is a matter of principle, and we will continue to do so, but we cannot vote or oppose it here. I fully recognise the intentions of the Enhedslisten in these amendments, but that is not something I see we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103724	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103732	I have to understand that this is because a few areas have been selected. It shouldn't be Enhedslisten who decides it, and then you won't vote any of it through. May I ask frankly: does the alternative then recommend a 'no' to the electoral system itself? For without the Enhedslisten's amendments, unfortunately, the opt-in system means that the people will never be asked again and that a majority in the Folketing can transfer sovereignty without consulting the people, both when it comes to the rights of lgbtqi, which may be impaired, and less legal certainty or something completely, quite different. Will not the reasoning that referendums are wanted in all areas mean a 'no' to the final legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103837	No, it won't. We are still recommending a yes in this vote, and then we will continue to work politically to ensure that when the Folketing has to take a position on future legislative acts, we send it out in indicative referendums, because we think that is the right way to do so. We will work on this politically afterwards, but we still believe that it is a very good idea for Denmark to join these areas, that an opt-in system should be put in place to enable legislative acts to be adopted. As I have said here in the Chair many times, we would like to see the total legal reservation voted on. That's not what a majority wanted, so now it's like this. And we say yes to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103915	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112103918	Thank you. A little further to what Mrs Pernille Skipper said, I also find it difficult to understand what the rapporteur is saying. We voted in favour of the Enhedslisten amendment because it was felt that if sovereignty is to be given in the future, the Danes should be asked. That proposal was voted down. The consequence of this is that the Danes will not be asked if a majority of the Danes vote yes what I do not hope to abolish the reservation of law. The alternative was so much advanced during the election campaign with citizen involvement and closeness and participation, and here we are talking about the surrender of sovereignty in important areas, which I know are of great concern to the alternative, for example. monitoring, exchange of sensitive personal information, etc.; etc. and if we know which way the train is going in the European Union, then we should recommend a 'no' vote on 3 December. All those intentions and wishes, and what you want and everything else, are very good, but the rapporteur knows very well that there is a large majority in this Parliament who will not send those things to a referendum. The only way to secure that referendum is to recommend a 'no' vote on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104041	I think we see a movement here in the Folketing. This was also seen when there was a vote at second reading on the amendments tabled by the Enhedslisten. So I believe it can be done. We do not think it has anything to do with a train that is heading in any direction when we talk about the European Union. We believe that this is about whether we participate in a common judicial area. To commit ourselves to this is what we want from the alternative, because we believe it is right to enter into this community, in other words to play a part in it and to play a part in complying with the rights granted in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104114	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104119	Which way the train is going in the European Union can be discussed. I do not think there is any doubt about this, because if you look at developments since 2001 and what happened there, we see that, unfortunately, we have had a very worrying development in terms of monitoring citizens, both nationally and at EU level. And that's why I don't understand why the alternative, which, like Enhedslisten, is very preoccupied with this, doesn't take this any more seriously. Then the rapporteur says: I think there will be a development in the Folketing, so we will get a majority for this one time. Such faith is commendable and really, really good, but I would call it a hope, and so do I. If sovereignty is to be given in the future, for example. There is one thing we can be absolutely sure of in areas that violate citizens' legal certainty, and that is that only by voting 'no' on 3 December will the Danes be asked, and then the 'yes' parties will not be able to take that decision over the Danes on a late evening in the European Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104215	Of course, there were many different questions in one. As far as reflection is concerned, it is also very much a national matter; it is not only at EU level, it is also at national level. I just do not think that the solution is to vote 'no' on 3 December. Now we come to a debate on the overall legislative proposal in a little while, and I and the alternative are still recommending a yes, because no, nothing is certain if we vote no. Nor is anything certain if we vote yes. This is a political decision, i.e. whether or not we want to be part of the binding community within the area of justice. And we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104252	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104256	Thank you. I'm a little confused on a higher level. If I have understood the alternative correctly, then you say yes, also to the vote, and if there is a yes, it is the Folketing that decides on the 22 legislative acts, and then there will be indicative referendums. After all, the Constitution says that if sovereignty is given, referendums must be held and they are binding and they are not indicative. Why, then, is it that the alternative will not have referendums in advance, which are binding, but will leave it to the Folketing to say yes, after which an indicative referendum will have to be printed which is not binding and which, in theory and in practice, will be disregarded? The rapporteur must explain this to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104347	The rapporteur should be happy to do so. When we vote on 3 December, it is with an electoral system in which we give the power of decision to the Folketing as to whether or not to opt for legislation. That is why the referendums we have to hold in my optics would be indicative. And there it is that the alternative says that we would very much like to see a lot of them held. We have no objection to asking the people and getting a direction, and then, of course, we follow it. I do not see that a majority in the Folketing should not follow the outcome of a referendum, even if it is indicative and not binding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104419	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104422	That's just the core. After all, an indicative referendum is not in any way binding on a Parliament, which is why there is no reason for it to be printed. So I actually see this as a defensive move, and I would actually like to call on the alternative to abandon that defensive move and instead meet the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and Liberal Alliance and join the parties and vote no in the final vote after we have had these supplementary votes. Indicative referendums can never be binding at any time. It does not make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104512	No, and that is also what I said, namely that indicative referendums are not binding, but that I find it difficult to see a majority in the Folketing that does not follow an indicative referendum. We still believe that the most sensible thing is to enter into this judicial cooperation at EU level, because we believe that it is the right thing to do when faced with cross-border problems. Then they must be solved together, and that is why we want to be involved. At the same time, we can go out and criticise the agreement on the electoral system that has been made and say that we would like to see referenda on future legislative acts, and we will then work on that politically, because we think it is right. Yes, they are indicative referendums, but I find it difficult to see a majority in the Folketing not following such a vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104554	The next question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104559	Now it is very difficult for me to hear anything because of all the talk that is going on down here in the back, so perhaps I have not heard what the rapporteur actually said, but I have certainly made an effort to do so. I just have to understand this very clearly: what the alternative advocates is that we should say yes on 3 December, but then the alternative wants referendums to be held after all when we have to give up sovereignty. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104630	Then there was silence, and I think that is a very good respect for those who speak both from the platform and from the Chamber. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104639	As the author is also well aware, we voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's amendments on Tuesday the author was present in the Chamber when we did so. So yes, we recommend a yes on 3 December because we believe that we need to work together on cross-border challenges in the European Union. However, we are still criticising the fact that we have not chosen to write it in and say that we must have referendums when we surrender sovereignty when we choose future legislation. I do not understand what the rapporteur is so confused about or does not understand, but it may also be because he did not hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104711	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104713	In any case, I have to say that this is a very alternative point of view. Then you can put in the word alternatively what you want, but if that is what you want, I simply do not understand why you have not supported those parties who want a 'no' vote in this vote, in relation to perhaps subsequently being able to make a vote that introduces an electoral system that requires you to hear the people when it is the case that you give up sovereignty. I simply do not understand the alternative's recommendation of a yes here. It simply does not add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104749	It may then be because it is the alternative that DF's questions do not understand. I'll try to repeat myself again. We believe that it is important to cooperate within the European Union on problems that are cross-border, and that is what lies in these legal acts on legal policy. We think that is quite reasonable. Then there has been an agreement among five parties in the Folketing that we should hold this referendum now. Then we say: okay, that was not the very best we could have imagined, but it is a step in the right direction and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104821	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104826	Thank you. So, I must also say that, to put it bluntly, I think that the argument is a good-day man, an axe handle, because what the referendum of 3 December is about is the lifting of the reservation of law and then the possibility of choosing. And it is then the Folketing that can choose to do so. But this also removes the possibility of a referendum. Then they say that they will say yes in the referendum on 3 December and then work for referendums, but they are, I would say, blocked. The possibility of having referendums in the future is at least so completely dependent on a general majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104933	Once again, I would like to ask you to either keep your voice down or go outside the Chamber if you are going to talk. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112104942	Then I shall try to explain it again, which is why it may well be that the rapporteur still thinks it has something to do with an axe handle, but that is the argument and position we have in the alternative. We say this agreement has been made among some parties. It is a step in the right direction for us because we want to work together in the European Union on cross-border challenges. Yes, we give the power of decision to the Folketing in relation to the adoption of future acts. But there we believe from the alternative that the Folketing can, of course, go out at any time and ask the people in what is called an indicative referendum, and then, of course, follow the guidance that comes from the population. I don't see how the Danish Parliament would want anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105021	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105023	You could have made an agreement on Europol if you wanted to. I do not think anyone here disagrees with the fact that it is very sensible to establish police cooperation. We have also had this before the European Union; it is not something that the European Union has invented. There has always been cooperation with other governments if something was urgent. But I just think that is a strange argument, because the very possibility of the people being heard is not exactly being promoted if there is a yes on 3 December. I simply cannot understand that. That is the argument I do not understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105102	I'm sorry. But one thing that is also important for me to say is that this is not just about Europol. There are a number of legal acts here, there are a number of areas on which cooperation has been chosen in the European Union and on which we think Denmark should be involved. So it is not just a question of holding a vote on Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105119	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105123	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the alternative for the good cooperation we had up to the second reading, where we agreed on the general principle of referendums in the event of new legislative acts. But then I have to say that I do not understand this because if the alternative votes in favour of the Enhedslisten's amendments and let us imagine that it will be adopted then the alternative can quite rightly go out and recommend a yes in the subsequent referendum, because then the alternative will have both the 22 legal acts and the cooperation that you want, plus a guarantee of referendums. If, on the other hand, the yes is adopted without the Enhedslisten's amendments, then one thing is absolutely certain: then we will have the 22 legislative acts and a lot of legal policy in the future without the public being asked. And therefore I simply cannot understand why the alternative will not have the best of all worlds when it is now possible for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105219	Because it is not the best of all worlds for us that one party sits and selects which areas it is in, either when it is the governing party or when it is the Enhedslisten. And that is why I was a strong advocate of the Enhedslisten's proposal at second reading that it is precisely a principle that we hold these referendums.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105240	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105242	This isn't an exhaustive list. In other words, the alternative has also had the opportunity to make proposals, and there will be the possibility of subsequently bringing more, if there is agreement on that. This is just some red lines we think are so crucial. Doesn't the alternative think so? Is there one of the proposals put forward by Enhedslisten, where the alternative does not want us to have a referendum if more power is to be transferred to the European Union in those areas at a later stage? Is there one of the points raised by Enhedslisten where the alternative does not support a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105318	No, sir, there isn't. Søren Søndergaard also, because I have been saying this a moment ago when I explained why we are abstaining. We do not think this is the right way to do it. We believe that it is in principle that a vote should be taken and that is why we supported the Enhedslisten's amendments at second reading, but we do not support a party going out and choosing out in this way, because there are also other areas in which we would like to see referendums.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105345	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105350	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur to elaborate on this. Since it is not the government, nor is it a party in this Chamber, which must take the initiative in these referendums, who should?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105406	As I have said a few times, we believe that this is a matter of principle. That is why we voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's amendments at second reading, which were about the fact that when legislative acts were adopted there should be a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105421	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105423	I would just like to ask again for an answer. Who's going to take this initiative if it's not allowed to be a party in the Folketing and it's not allowed to be the government? Is it the courts, because that is the last power we have left? I do not see who should take the initiative if it is not a single party in the Folketing that has to take such an initiative and ask for a referendum that a majority in the Folketing can then support and effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105446	I would ask the rapporteur to listen again. I'm not talking about the individual area, but I'm talking about that this is a principle. It is a principle that if we opt for legislation, we would like to see referendums being held. But we do not believe that it is a small list of seven proposals that apply to it. That is why we voted in favour of the basic amendment at second reading, which is why we can abstain from voting on the proposals which have come from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105514	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105518	Thank you very much. After all, I am sorry that the alternative will not vote in favour of these proposals, because I know that we share much of the same concern, precisely in that we want more equality, that we want to ensure proper rights for people and more transparency at all and less monitoring. So I am sorry that in the alternative you cannot vote for this. However, the rapporteur points out that if you do not want to vote for it here, I think that a very thorough list of important areas that we want to ensure is because there are other areas that you want to ensure. What other areas is the rapporteur thinking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105559	I cannot stand here and make an exhaustive list of areas. As I have said several times now from up here today and in the past, we would very much like to see it sent to a referendum when you elect legal acts. That is what we will continue to work for politically that there is an ongoing majority for us to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105616	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105619	Thank you very much. But we fully agree that the best will be, it can be said that everything can be voted on. That is also what we have proposed. I just want to say that we have lost that vote, and here we have an opportunity to defend a number of our fundamental rights in relation to what is at stake, what is about the right to strike, what is about Danes' rights in divorce cases and equality, our courts. I must say that I am incredibly sorry that the alternative will not stand with us in the Enhedslisten to ensure that there will be a referendum if there is deterioration for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105658	Well, of course I'm really sorry to embarrass Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. I can explain over and over again that we would like to see referendums, but not on a small limited list.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105712	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105738	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we support the amendments tabled by the Enhedslisten, and we do so on the basis that little is better than nothing, and in this case, a little influence for the citizens is better than no influence for the citizens. It is, of course, the consequence of voting in favour of the model put forward by the parties to the agreement that, in future, there will be no influence on the citizens in the area of judicial sovereignty. In short, that is why we support the Enhedslisten amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105817	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105837	I understood Mrs. Pernille Skipper and Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, that there was a desire to ask some questions about the policy of the Conservatives, so I hereby make myself available.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105903	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105905	I would like to begin by commending Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to go on the platform so that I can ask the question I so burned to be allowed to ask earlier, and that is quite fundamental: if in future we see a legal act coming from the European Union which fundamentally changes the guarantees of legal certainty that we have in Danish law, for example. Perhaps we are tampering with the right to a fair trial and some of the principles we have there. Why can we not agree that it is so important for the people to be heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112105936	Well, we can also agree in principle that if there are to be some very major changes in relation to legal policy, it would be a good idea to take a referendum on it. The problem is, of course, just how we define it, and here we have faith that the parties that are to implement the electoral system will be able to decide in a sensible way whether it is large enough for a referendum to take place. Of course, this is a matter of trust with the Danish Parliament. It is a matter of general concern with this opt-in scheme, but we believe that we have a good and well-functioning Parliament, which can make such decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110014	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110015	Well, then I don't think I quite understand why, sir. Rasmus Jarlov cannot vote in favour of our amendment to ensure a referendum if there are fundamental changes in the guarantees of legal certainty, because there is also the possibility that if it is a petite or a small, intricate change that does not mean so much, then it will just be voted through with the usual five-sixths majority, which is also included in the amendments. So there's this opportunity. In other words, the amendments do not mean that anything that is merely tampering with the issue of legal certainty will be put to a referendum, but that which cannot bring together five sixths of a majority, because it is so violent and important an intervention, will come to a referendum. Shouldn't that be safe enough for Mr. Knox? Rasmus Jarlov?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110103	No, because we see in this referendum that, for example, the Danish People's Party has said that it would block all the acts that we now endorse if we could. We heard that, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth said at first reading of the bill: The Danish People's Party opposed all acts except Europol. It will be too demonstrative if we believe that Denmark cannot in any way conclude agreements with other European countries when it is to the clear benefit of the Danes, based on such a very, very fundamental view that everything from the European Union must be opposed. We think it will be too demonstrative and destructive and, like many other areas, Parliament should be given the opportunity to conclude agreements with other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110152	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110155	Thank you. With regard to the eight specific amendments tabled by Enhedslisten, it is not the intention that all legislative acts should be put to a referendum in the future. On the contrary, it is an extension of the so-called Løkke guarantee, for which both the Conservative People's Party and the Enhedslisten have voted; it gives the people a very concrete guarantee. If, for example, there is going to be a deterioration in relation to the rights that it could be in the lqbtq area, the Danes have today, then it will be put out for a referendum, i.e. whether Denmark should really submit to the legislation of the EU in this area. I therefore very much wonder why, in these specific areas, there can be no support from the Conservative People's Party to send the issue to a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110245	With Enhedslisten's proposal, any change in a lot of areas defined by Enhedslisten must be a referendum unless there is a five-sixth majority for it in the Folketing. That means, of course, that even in the smallest and very technical changes which are not necessarily suitable for a referendum, we will have a referendum. And there is our view in Conservatives that very large changes in principle are suitable for referendums where people have a lot at stake and where there are some important decisions in principle, but small technical changes to legal acts are not, in our view, suitable for referendums, and that is why we do not think that the Enhedslisten's proposal is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110330	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110333	Now, of course, I assume that the rapporteur has read the amendments from the Enhedslisten, because it is clear that what we are talking about is in the event of a deterioration in the rights of Danes; for example, that we are going to see some of the violent violations of the rights oflgbtqs, which are taking place in some of the Eastern European and Central European Member States, starting to hit us through EU legislation here in Denmark. Why not give the Danes the guarantee that this happens, they are asked, not when it is technicalities, but when it is clear violations of the rights of the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110411	Because this kind of thing is a question of interpretation, then, when can one say that there is a clear deterioration of importance which makes a referendum necessary? There, we believe, it must be the Folketing that takes a position on it and there is the possibility of holding referendums if the Folketing so wishes in the future. And we will be in favour of this if there are major changes. Believe it or not, but we do not actually have a desire to deceive the people and to carry out a whole lot of things in which the people have no interest. If that is what we did in the future, I think the people would also punish us for it. However, we believe that it must be up to the Folketing to take a position on this, and not just that one sixth of the Folketing should be able to sit and block all the agreements we might benefit from making together with other European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110457	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110501	Thank you. I'm quite sure that sir... Rasmus Jarlov has noted that these are eight individual amendments, seven of which deal with the issue we are discussing now. That means that there is an opportunity to vote for one and not for another. The rapporteur confirms this. Good. There are some who are trying to make this something very theoretical, and do we even know if it will happen? The European Public Prosecutor's Office is a very concrete thing. There's a suggestion. It is discussed eagerly. I myself, as a Member of the European Parliament, have been involved in discussions on this for several years. So it's a very specific thing. Could we not get Conservatives to promise that if there were to be a proposal to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, then Conservatives will back the referendum, and they will do so even now by pressing the green button?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110559	In other words, I do not think it is appropriate for me to stand here with a shot from my hip on a few points which we believe could trigger the demands for referendums in the future. I believe that this requires a more thorough debate, and I also believe that we should have the flexibility to look specifically at what is being proposed. I think it would be careless of me to stand here and make guarantees. I do not have a mandate for this either, which is why it would be wrong. However, I can say so much that we are not in favour of a common European Public Prosecutor's Office, and we will work against it with everything we now have the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110634	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110636	You shouldn't exaggerate and say you're shocked. I'm not, I guess. But I have to admit that we have Conservatives who say here that one can imagine that a majority in the Danish Parliament decides to join Denmark in a European Public Prosecutor's Office. I know you recommend something else in the agreement you have made. However, one can imagine that it can be denounced until elections are held, and Conservatives will not now take the opportunity to vote in favour of the idea that, if that situation should arise, there should of course be a referendum in Denmark. We're talking about a European Public Prosecutor's Office. I mean, I'm completely incomprehensible about how Conservatives can be so completely indifferent to the risk of power being handed over to the European Union in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110722	Well, sir. Søren Søndergaard knows very well that I have no mandate to stand here and give guarantees as to what the Conservative People's Party will demand in future that there be referendums on. Firstly, I am not a party leader, and secondly, I think it would be extremely careless if I were to stand here and take a stand on this matter with five or ten seconds of reflection, because I have been asked a question here. So it's irresponsible to demand that I do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110748	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110751	Thank you very much. I would also like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that we have sent these proposals to the Danish Parliament before, so that there has been an opportunity to look at them. I would like to ask specifically what we are proposing in Amendment No. 6, which is about an area which I know also occupies Conservatives, namely the Danish courts. If the Danish courts hand over power and competence from the Danish courts to the EU system, then you will ensure what to say about the Danish legal system by adding it to a referendum if there is not the five-sixth majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110834	Well, I think we're gonna be running a little in circles here, because you can imagine all kinds of hypothetical situations and terrible things that might be voted through. It is such a general fact that the Folketing has the opportunity to vote through a great many terrible things, isn't it? So, we have the opportunity to go to war; we have the opportunity to invite incredibly many unqualified immigrants to Denmark; we have the opportunity to take every penny from the Danes; we have the opportunity to monitor the Danes; we have the opportunity to do incredibly many things. The only question is, is it realistic? And should we stand here in the Folketing and define that if it happened and it happened with 200 different scenarios about things you could imagine • then we should demand a referendum? Or are we confident that elected representatives in this House will be able to take a position on this in the future and weigh down when it would be reasonable to hold referendums? I believe in lately. I do not believe that it makes sense for us to be exact when we are going to call for referenda, because it is very difficult to define precisely so that we get it accurately enough to make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110930	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112110932	Well, I would like to stress that these are areas where we actually already have the rights enshrined in the constitution, and that is something that we are proposing to abolish here on 3 December. So what we just want here is to go in and secure it and say that there are some areas that are so important that people are allowed to vote on them. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that it is beneficial for legal certainty if the right to vote is transferred from Danish courts to the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111005	I think I misunderstood Mrs Eva Flyvholm if she said it as I understood it, namely that we transferred it here to the European Union with the referendum we do not. So, these are very, very limited areas that we are transferring to the European Union, and Denmark will continue to be the least involved in judicial cooperation. I believe that what Mrs Flyvholm meant was that there was a theoretical possibility that we could legally do so in the future, that is to say transfer more competence to the European Union, but that is not what we are doing, and that is not what we intend to do. These are 22 acts, plus Europol out of eight hundred and seventy-seven acts, so it is quite limited what we actually endorse here in the referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111043	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111048	But I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for making himself available. The rapporteur has left a number of such unanswered questions in his speech at second reading, so it is nice that we have the opportunity to put them here at third reading. I have to ask the rapporteur very clearly, in reality, how long does the promise of a referendum have? In fact, as I heard the rapporteur before, this is only true during the current parliamentary term, because it was the Conservative Group that had to decide. And if it's just a promise for the next 31⁄2 years, then that promise isn't worth much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111126	I don't know why that impression should have been left behind. The promise is, of course, valid in the future, not just in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111136	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111138	Now I must ask for my sky blue soon, because it is not many minutes ago that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov said, and I quote, that he cannot promise referendums on behalf of future Conservative groups. So I just don't understand the two things. I mean, how long does this promise from Mr. Simpson last? Rasmus Jarlov on potential referendums? Is it until the sun burns out?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111203	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I have to say that those in the rear rows do indeed find it difficult to hear what is being said in here. So either you keep your voice down or you pull out just as quietly. Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111215	I can't take responsibility for what Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth understands that I can take responsibility for what I have said and I have said that I cannot give any further guarantees in relation to the guarantees we have already given. But we have, among other things. given a guarantee that we will not go along with the idea that asylum and refugee policy should be a common EU concern and that guarantee applies to the future. It is not a guarantee I give, but I am explaining what kind of guarantee we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111245	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111248	Thank you. The rapporteur says that you will not support the Enhedslisten's proposal, because it can be difficult to decide with these specific things, and if there is just a small corner of something, you will have to have a referendum. But how does it differ from the fact that the rapporteur, like the Enhedslisten, voted in favour of the proposal to promise a referendum if sovereignty in the field of aliens were to be surrendered? Because exactly the same thing is true, namely that there will be questions where one can say: is it a small corner or something else? Nevertheless, that guarantee was given to the people. I understand; I also think the issue of foreigners is important. I do not necessarily agree with the rapporteur, but it is an important issue that we have to decide here in the Folketing, and that is why I think it was wise to make that promise. But I also think that questions such as this one. legal certainty, as the jurisdiction of the Danish courts and as a European Public Prosecutor is at approximately the same level. So why does the rapporteur not want to extend the loan guarantee granted in the field of foreigners in exactly the same way to a number of other specific areas? That's what I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111357	Because in the area of foreigners, we are of the opinion that nothing should become an EU matter, nothing at all. Not even the smallest things should be handed over to the European Union in this area. We do not have the opportunity to say in the same way that in everything about, for example, solving crimes, police cooperation or some of the other areas that we have in the legal field, there is nothing at all that we want to be involved in. And that is why we do not have the option, as categorically as Enhedslisten wishes, of saying that any change in the other areas must be able to trigger a referendum. Because we are of the opinion that there are things in the legal area that are not asylum and refugee policy and where it actually makes sense for us to cooperate with other European countries. And it would be foolish to exclude oneself from it as categorically as one would if one voted in favour of Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111453	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111456	Thank you for your answer. I understand the thinking, but there must also be other areas where you can be equally categorical. Some of the proposals put forward by Enhedslisten, for example, act. on a European Public Prosecutor's Office and the competence of Danish courts. I mean, are those areas where the Conservative People's Party would like to give something? In other words, are there no other areas than foreign policy, where you say just as categorically that it is our view in the Enhedslisten that this is a competence that should lie with the Danish people and not with the European Union? If so, why can we not support the proposals in exactly the same way as we supported the so-called Løkkeforordning (Løkkeforordning)?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111538	I have already answered it several times to other Enhedslisten's questioners, namely that we do not think it is appropriate that we should list so many specific scenarios on things we could imagine. Because you can imagine 500, 1,000, 2,000 things that we would not be in favour of, and where it would also be fair to say that there will be a referendum in the future. We just don't think it's practical for us to do that. We have said this in concrete terms in order to give the Danes a certainty where we know there is a concern. We also know that there are parties in here who are trying to draw a picture of the fact that we are handing the immigration and asylum policy over to the European Union, and that is what we have said absolutely crystal clear: that is not going to happen. However, we find it difficult to do so in other areas because there are small things around in police cooperation, cooperation in the fight against crime, the collection of amounts from companies, etc., where we believe it makes sense that we have the opportunity to cooperate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111633	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111637	I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, if he thinks, when he talks about small technical details, that the right to strike in Denmark is a small technical detail which one is unable to take a position on from the Conservative People's Party. Will a referendum be guaranteed? We have not stated that these things are not something in which the European Union can interfere until the sun burns out. We are just saying that we want a guarantee from the parties that there will be a referendum, so it is the Danish people who will be allowed to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111708	Then we're about to be over in what I mentioned before. Then we're painting these 2,000 scenarios of terrible things that you could imagine could be passed in the future. I just don't think that's appropriate. So, what is the probability of it being a mere scaremongering campaign that the EU would want to deprive us of the right to strike in Denmark? Is it really a likely scenario? And then I would like to ask whether it really is a likely scenario that the Folketing would want to join such a legal act. I mean, it's totally fucked up to think it's ever gonna happen. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111747	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111748	The reason why Enhedslisten has put forward these specific proposals is that among other things. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, at second reading, could not mention any specific points on which the Conservative People's Party believes there should be a referendum. We can therefore say that we are now trying to make seven concrete proposals. Can you relate to that? So you could say, is that theoretical? It may be theoretical, but is it not so dangerous to promise a referendum on something which, in the view of the Conservative People's Party, is very theoretical?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111816	After all, this is all about Enhedslisten leaving people with the impression that we are now on the way to abolishing the right to strike in Denmark through this referendum. This creates a totally muddy and falsified picture of what the referendum is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111832	The next question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111837	Thank you, Madam President. I think it's interesting that sir... Rasmus Jarlov has said several times that it would be careless to stand on the platform here today in connection with the third reading of this bill and go in to look at these eight amendments and look at what they contain of other forms of guarantees than the one you think has been given with this so-called Løkkegar Guarantee. But the rapporteur also says something about replying after ten seconds of reflection. However, I think that the rapporteur must fairly acknowledge that it is not just 10 seconds. After all, it has been two days since we had the second reading. It was Tuesday that we had the second reading. And then there were several people in this Chamber who asked specific questions about the Conservative People's Party about which other places they are talking about and whether it would not be so nice in relation to public education here in Denmark to give just three examples of where the Conservative People's Party would help to give this kind of guarantee and where they would like to have a referendum. Two days have passed and the rapporteur must be able to find three specific examples. It could, for example, be done. be among these eight that have been outlined.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112111949	I just think it is not serious that we should sit here and decide whether we would demand a referendum if the European Union decided that we should all be vampires or would abolish the right to strike or some of the other far-fetched scenarios that are being set up. I mean, none of them are realistic. And there are so many things that, in theory, one could imagine they could adopt in the European Union and that one could be against, so I do not think that this is about establishing 2 000 scenarios for what could happen and then defining them in detail is a serious approach to this referendum. It is about the attempt by the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten to paint some scare pictures that this referendum brings with it a whole lot of things that it will never bring about. And then it is about us thinking that the Danish Parliament, elected by the Danish people to represent Denmark's interests, is able to decide that in certain areas it actually makes sense for us to cooperate with other European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112050	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112052	After all, the rapporteur ended up with something very positive, and that was that there should be cooperation between European countries. But this isn't cooperation. This is the same direction. It is, of course, the abolition of sovereignty vis-à-vis a number of nation states, in this case Denmark, where we have to place our reservations in the legal field. It's not cooperation, it's not cooperation. Then I would say that the rapporteur belongs to a party which has a tradition of being such a law and order party. Now we have had the discussion about a common European Public Prosecutor's Office, and the rapporteur cannot give a concrete answer as to whether this is something that will be guaranteed in connection with, for example, voting in favour of this amendment. That is not what the Conservative People's Party wants. We must then take note of that. But it is a little strange for a law and order party that we are going to be subject to the same laws and rules as those in Bucharest and Rome and Madrid.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112144	It is a question of cooperation. When we agree to some legislation, it is a question of solving some problems jointly with other European countries. And that is where I think you have to understand that every time you enter into a cooperation agreement with some other people, whether you are an individual or a country, you are committing yourself in some way, and we can say that you are thereby giving up some sovereignty. One restricts one's scope for action when one enters into cooperation agreements with others, and that is necessary in order for one to cooperate, because then one promises that there are some things one will do and that there are some things one cannot do when one is a member of the cooperation. That's what we're doing with all these pieces of legislation. But I suppose it is only because it clearly benefits the Danes and Danish companies. That is the only reason why there are some areas in which we want to work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112230	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112233	Today we have three weeks to go to a referendum, and first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party for, after all, showing the respect to take the debate here today. I think that is very commendable. Then I would like to ask the Conservative rapporteur whether we are talking here about 2 000 amendments or 8 amendments, because the rapporteur makes it sound as if it is any scenario. The rapporteur even made fun of it by saying that it is about whether we should be vampires, and frankly I think that is a rather irresponsible way of taking the debate. After all, we are dealing here with eight very specific areas, the right to strike, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the rights of children, legal certainty, the lgbt area, etc., some red lines that we are trying to put forward here to say that, if we are to give up sovereignty, we can at least be sure that there will be a marked deterioration in the rights that we know as a citizen of Denmark today, we will also be asked in a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112332	I don't know if there was any question about that. I think I can only replicate by repeating that we believe that the proposals made by Enhedslisten are too inflexible and mean that any technical change in a large number of areas will have to trigger a referendum, and then you season it with some horror scenarios that we will, for example, have to abolish the right to strike in Denmark if we vote in favour of the referendum. That's not true. Nobody wants that, either in the European Union or in Denmark, and that is why it is not going to happen that such a legal act will be adopted in the European Union, and it will never happen that the Danish Parliament will join it. It's just a little coincidence that you just knock down, and then you define these horror scenarios, especially with a view to how representative democracy works, by the way. The Folketing generally has the opportunity to agree to agreements and generally has the opportunity to make quite far-reaching decisions on behalf of Denmark. There is no point in saying here that we are defining a whole lot of scenarios, some of them a little randomly selected here, because they have just echoed such a purely advertising up to a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112442	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112444	I don't think that's what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says it's connected. On the one hand, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that it will never happen, that it is a horror scenario and that it is not relevant at all, but on the other hand, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that it's very nice if we can kind of change a little in these areas and make some technical or some minor changes. It has to be a either-or-or, that is, either it's never relevant, or you'll have to use this opportunity to surrender sovereignty in these eight areas very often. So what does Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, really? Are these eight areas totally unrealistic, or is it nice to be able to surrender sovereignty in these eight areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112522	I believe that the scenarios that Enhedslisten is painting are totally unrealistic, in other words that we will then be forced to abolish the right to strike, we will abolish the rights of transsexuals and homosexuals in Denmark, and we will have a common European prosecutor who will deprive us of the right to have our own legal system in Denmark. It is completely unrealistic. No one wants it, and that is why it is a little waste of time to spend on it, and then the way in which the Enhedslisten's proposal is drafted is very inappropriate, namely that in any change in the area of justice, in a large number of areas, even the smallest technical change, we must have a referendum on it. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112604	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112608	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for standing here today. I do not want to ask about two thousand different scenarios, I want to ask about something very specific, something which I believe is very important to the rapporteur, and that is at least something that is very close to my heart. It is about the rights of families and it is about the rights of children. When I think it is very important that we discuss it today, and when we have also tabled Amendment No 4 and Amendment No 8, it is because we in Denmark are in the forefront of precisely these areas. We are ahead when it comes to children's equal rights of association with both parents, if they have the same sex, joint parental responsibility and children's rights to their father. We are in front of a large number of other EU countries, and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that if future legal acts can mean that we are undermining the rights of children and families, then it is so important that we have to ask the people there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112705	Yes, I can agree with that in principle, but then it's just a question of how we define impairments rights. And that is why I believe that it requires some more in-depth consideration of what it makes sense to send a referendum than that we are already sitting here saying that any technical change in family law must lead to a referendum in the future. So I do not think that is appropriate. Because there may be some areas of family law where it actually makes sense for us to have European cooperation, for example if it can improve the rights of children. And you could imagine that there could be some scope for improving rights, for example, if it is about families scattered across several countries; then, for example, there can be. be some EU questions about how the rights of Danish children apply if, for example, the family moves to Germany. It makes sense to have European cooperation, and if you then lock yourself in and say that there must be no cooperation whatsoever and that it must require a referendum, even if there is the slightest technical improvement in one area, then we do not think that this is appropriate. Then we believe that it would be to the detriment of children that we would not have the flexibility to join agreements in this area. That is why we believe that the very inflexible approach of Enhedslisten to this is not appropriate. There the Conservative People's Party believes that we in the Folketing are adults enough to be able to join agreements with other European countries when it benefits the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112818	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112820	Thank you for your answer. Our amendments are not, of course, about any technical changes. Our amendments are very specific in relation to deterioration for children and for families. So I would just like to ask again: in relation to what is about deterioration, does the rapporteur not agree with me that it is so important that we have to demand a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112841	No, it's not concrete, because what's a deterioration? You can discuss that. After all, it is a political choice whether to consider some changes to be a deterioration or an improvement. That's why it doesn't make sense that Enhedslisten thinks it should be locked in relation to deterioration. One can have long discussions about what is a deterioration and what is an improvement. It is a political decision, and that is why the Folketing is best placed to decide whether or not we believe that agreements are for the benefit of Danish children. And that is what we intend to do. We want to improve conditions for Danish children, and sometimes it is, therefore, by working with other European countries, rather than just saying: we are opposed to everything that is about the European Union. There are a great many things I am opposed to in the European Union, and I would like to see some areas in which we had much less Europe as a whole. But what Enhedslisten is proposing is too inflexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112931	There are now two additional authors on the list. I believe that we must approach the vote. But the next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112112941	Thank you very much. I understand from the questioner that the reason why referendums are not called for, for example. the right to strike or surrender sovereignty in the courts is that the rapporteur believes that it would never get through the Folketing. Is it the reason why a referendum is promised in the area of asylum and immigration, so that it is believed that it is most likely that a majority in the Folketing will hand it over to the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113015	No. It is because we take the view that there is nothing in the area of asylum and refugee policy to be made an EU issue. And we cannot say just as clearly in this area, for example. family law, which I had a discussion about before in relation to children's rights, that there is no area where we could imagine that it would make sense to make some agreements with other European countries. That is why we cannot, as a block, take an area beyond asylum and refugee policy and say: there is nothing that will ever be something we are working with other EU countries on. That is why we have taken out the asylum and refugee policy, and we do not believe that we can take the other areas out in the same way and say that referendums on even the smallest technical amendments or agreement to the agreement must be required here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113056	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113058	But why do we give the promise of a referendum if we are so convinced that there will never be a majority in the Folketing that will send exactly refugee and asylum policy to the European Union? It must be a guarantee enough that a political agreement has been reached. I was given a lesson from the rapporteur on this at second reading, that is, that a political agreement was all enough. Why, then, is this promised a referendum if there is no fear at all that there is a majority in the Folketing that will send this particular area to Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113126	I just got the answer. This is because we do not see any scenarios where it makes sense that asylum and refugee policy should become an EU issue, that is, something that we solve together with other EU countries, while this is not the case for other areas such as Turkey. family law, business relationships when dealing with each other across borders, or some of the other things that we could imagine legal acts about. There we cannot say just as categorically that it will never make sense for us to make agreements with the other European countries. There's no other answer to that. That is the same answer I gave before, but I cannot give any other answer because that is the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113202	We need two more questioners, so we need to calm down in the Chamber until we reach the vote. The next is Merete Dea Larsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113211	Now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has a lot to do with scaremongering, and I'm thinking, who's running scaremongering here? And, of course, we have seen before that they have not quite proved to be waterproof when we had said no to more of the European Union. How can we say in the Conservatives, one of the smallest parties, that nobody is running out of this agreement? I do not think we can be in any doubt about which parties have the real power, about what is behind this little agreement that has been made, which can very easily be cancelled again, and it has also been recognised that it can be cancelled in the future. Last but not least, there's something I need to hear. I like the fact that we constantly compare with Germany when we have to harmonise rules and go into these things, but do we agree that, in other words, there are countries such as Bulgaria, Greece, Italy, just to take an example which is in the 69th place of corruption and which actually have quite a high level of corruption? It is just when you make that comparison with Germany that I would like to think about whether there were other countries that you should start comparing yourself down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113317	When I mention Germany, it is of course because it is our biggest partner, the ones with which we have the most trade, and therefore it will also be the country where the most cases are likely to occur. So I think it is very relevant that I use it as an example when I cannot mention all EU members. When it comes to the political agreement that we have and I assume that it refers here to the right of veto, in that asylum and refugee policy cannot be made an EU matter without all the parties to the agreement agreeing on this, it is not right that we can simply override it. Political agreements at Christiansborg are very solid. We have an agreement from 1993, which has been respected for 22 years between some parties to the agreement, and that is also why, at second reading, we had the discussion where we saw some huge battles within the left, where the Enhedslisten very accusing of the SF said to them that now it has moved much further away. However, the fact that asylum and refugee policy can ever become an EU concern is further away with the agreement we have now reached. Because there are such solid political guarantees that this will never happen, and I am glad that there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113424	Mrs. Merete Dea Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113426	Yes, yes, but we do agree that it has been recognised that, depending on the future political composition, no guarantees can be provided. Then it is true that Germany may be the ones with which we work most, but if we are going to have to have further EU legislation, then it is not only Germany that is crucial, after all, it is the whole of Europe with which we have to lay down rules. And in relation to a ceiling on crime, child pornography etc. it will no longer be Denmark that sets the standard, but then it will be the EU countries as a mixture.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113453	It is absolutely true that we are making agreements with all EU countries. But it is still the case that we have this possibility and in this way an option is a rather generous arrangement for Denmark that if we believe that something goes too far, then we do not agree. And we haven't assessed that. In other words, when it comes to the 22 acts that we now endorse, we have not considered that there is any of the things that are unfavorable to the Danes. On the contrary, it solves some very concrete problems for the legal certainty of Danish citizens and companies vis-à-vis European countries that, for example, decisions made in Denmark also apply if a protected person, for example, moves to Romania. That's an advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113537	The last question on the list is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113540	Thank you. In conclusion, in this long debate, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party a very simple question. Now the rapporteur has talked a great deal about the fact that it will never happen that we are giving up sovereignty in the area of foreigners and refugees, and then I would like a reply from the rapporteur, yes or no, to the question: is a promise legally binding, even if it is given on the parliamentary platform? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113613	It is not legally binding. But what is a legal guarantee from a Parliament worth when the Folketing does the law anyway? Well, even a legal promise can be changed, because it's us in here who make the laws. Therefore, one can argue that a political guarantee may be worth more than a legal bond. When you go out and make political agreements in which five parties sit together and very, very solidly guarantee each other and the people that there must be referendums before it is even possible to give asylum and refugee policy, and all parties have a right of veto, then it is a fairly secure guarantee that will be issued. That is not a hundred percent, it is true, but there are also many other things the Folketing could do from accidents. If there really was a majority for us to have a lax foreign policy and it really should flow in with refugees to Denmark, then the Folketing could adopt it tomorrow. You have to be aware of that. We could choose to follow the European Union completely, and we could choose to take as many refugees as Sweden wants us to do, and the Folketing could adopt it tomorrow. But we do not, because that is not what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113724	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen. Apostasy? Then I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. There isn't. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112113742	The first to be voted on is Amendment No. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 37 (DF, EL and LA), against 65 (S, V, LA (1 by mistake), RV, SF and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. Next, we shall vote on Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour 35 (DF, EL and LA), against 65 (S, V, LA (1 by mistake), RV, SF and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. Next, we shall vote on Amendment No 3. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour 37 (DF, EL and LA), against 64 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. Next, we shall vote on Amendment No 3. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour 38 (DF, EL and LA), against 64 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. Next, we shall vote on Amendment No 3. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour 37 (DF, EL and LA), against 64 (S, V, RV, SF and KF) abstentions 6 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. Next, we shall vote on Amendment No 3. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour 37 (DF, EL and LA), against 64 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. Next, we shall vote on Amendment No 3. 7 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour 38 (DF, EL and LA), against 64 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. Finally, Amendment No 1 will be voted on. 8 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour 38 (DF, EL and LA), against 64 (S, V, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114203	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. The first rapporteur to speak is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114226	The draft law that we are dealing with today is not a question of for or against the European Union. It's about security for the Danes. It's about police cooperation...
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114241	We're gonna have a little quiet in the hall. If anyone wants to leave the Chamber, then they have to do so so that the rapporteur can hear the sound of his ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114249	Yeah, it's about calm! But it is also about our police cooperation and the fight against paedophiles, traffickers, burglar gangs, terrorism and harassment. It is about the fight against social dumping. It is about the protection of children and of women affected by violence. And it is not a joke when 24 organizations have joined us in this debate. As you know, Europol is the occasion for us to have the referendum right now. The law transforms the current legal reservation into an opt-in system, which means that we from Danish teams have decided for ourselves which parts of the EU cooperation on justice and home affairs such as Denmark should participate in, and therefore also what we should be outside. The parties to the agreement have chosen out 22 acts, which we have assessed will be of great benefit to Denmark. It is about police cooperation, but it is also about a number of other arrangements that I will come back to. On the other hand, there is complete agreement in the agreement that Denmark should not continue to be part of the legislation in the area of asylum and immigration, which we also stand outside today. This is something we have been discussing over and over again in this Parliament, so let me just put two points below: the legislative proposal we are discussing here today still means that we are not part of EU legislation on common asylum and immigration policy. On the other hand, there are a number of legal acts which will strengthen Danish conditions. They will strengthen the conditions for families, among others. the many Danes who get married across borders who have children across borders. We have seen that, unfortunately, this means divorces where children end up between two different legal systems. In the eyes of the Social Democratic Party, it is not fair for those children to be playing ball between two legal systems. We must always stand on the side of children and therefore decisions on parental rights must apply in all EU countries. At the same time, it is also crucial that we become part of the cooperation in the fight against child abductions, not for the sake of the European Union, but for the sake of children. And women, too, whose violent ex-husband has a restraining order, think we should have better rights. You can be against that. There are some parties in this Chamber who do not believe that this is necessary. We in the Social Democratic Party think so. It's fair to these women that a restraining order applies in other countries too. Not least, it is important that we can combat social dumping, that we can combat when employees are cheated on money they have to pay for. When Danish companies have claims in other countries, it is crucial that we are part of the cooperation. It's true that when we do all these things, there's a choice left. It is a choice between, on the one hand, guaranteeing more rights for children, for women who have been subjected to violence, ensuring stronger police cooperation in the future, ensuring better conditions for workers and Danish companies, and, on the other hand, ensuring that we are, of course, involved in EU cooperation on these matters. It is a political choice and let us just say it openly and honestly. This is certainly not something that we in the Socialist Group put on the side of the Socialist Group. It is a political choice, and our choices in this context are clear: we want the rights, we want the security of the many groups involved. So in those words, we Socialists continue to support the bill here. We have done the math, and that is the security of Danish children, for women who have been subjected to violence, for companies and employees, who are our top priority. It is the fight against the unsavory criminals, who unfortunately cross borders increasingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114708	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Morten Løkkegaard from the Left. No, instead of a brief remark from Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114723	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen a few questions. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for taking the floor and taking the debate. It's really important. And I understand that, for the Socialists, this issue is almost exclusively about Europol cooperation and then some minimum directives that are, as a rule, fully implemented in Danish law already and that nothing will change after 3 December, no matter what the outcome will be. However, I would like to ask specifically about one of the other acts which has also been mentioned a little in the media, namely the European Investigation Order, which means that foreign courts can decide on searches in Danish homes and seizures of Danish property, regardless of what a Danish court would have said to that in relation to the Danish Code of Procedure. And it is also sometimes for things that are not actually illegal at all in Denmark. How do the Socialists explain it as a perfect victory, as it sounds when Mrs Trine Bramsen speaks?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114840	It is the case that we Social Democrats believe in the community, and when you are part of a community, it is true that you have to work together. This also means that in the specific case of a search warrant it may be that you have to cooperate with foreign intelligence services that cooperate in a different way than in Denmark. There we have great faith that Danish intelligence services actually have a positive influence on the cooperation that is taking place. And I must also say that it may well be that the legal basis is guaranteed, but that is not the same thing as having to. Then I would like to say about the other thing, which is a myth: it is not true that we are only talking about Europol. We are talking about Europol and 22 acts. We do that over and over again. We have even made posters that I have noticed that Mrs Pernille Skipper is very concerned about. This is about the legal act on trafficking in human beings, which is about the legal act on the fight against child abuse. So it is not true that this is just Europol. These are Europol and 22 acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114945	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112114947	I also started by saying that Mrs Trine Bramsen was only concerned with Europol and with some minimum directives that have already been transposed into Danish law, because that is the directive on trafficking in human beings and child pornography, as it were, already complete. So, yeah, we totally agree that that's about the three things you're talking about. I simply do not know what Mrs Trine Bramsen was replying to. It was certainly not on my question at all. It had nothing to do with intelligence. I didn't say anything about homework. I don't even know what that was about. I asked how the Social Democrats might think that it is okay that foreign courts can make decisions about searches of Danish homes and the seizure of Danish property, regardless of what a Danish court would have said to it and also for actions that are not illegal at all in Denmark. Is this really a step forward in the Socialists' optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115043	Then we have come so far that the Enhedslisten recognises that it is not just about Europol and that we Socialists are actually also concerned about the other 22 acts. And may I not just say, if Mrs. Pernille Skipper forgot to hear my speech, that I was also talking about social dumping, about children's rights when it comes to divorces, and a number of other things. Then we should not, for once, stop this with the fact that it is only a matter of police cooperation. These are Europol, nine acts, but we are also concerned about the other acts. Then I turn to the question of searching. Well, it is true that we Social Democrats are very concerned that criminals are being discovered and that they are being locked up. When we form part of cooperation, it is quite right that the working methods of the other countries are also part of the Community we form part of. But we believe that we are strengthening that cooperation by sitting outside and not sitting outside, and we are also concerned about catching criminals who exceed borders, and that is why we are also supporting this part.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115141	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115143	I have a question for Mrs Trine Bramssen, and that is more in relation to what mutual recognition means. So, in Mrs Trine Bramsen's interpretation, it sounds as if mutual recognition means that the others must recognise our good legal system and then it will be wonderful for everyone. But is it not in mutual recognition that we also have to recognise judgments, decisions by authorities in the field of parents, children, crime and a lot of other areas taken by the authorities of other countries? Is there not reciprocity in mutual recognition?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115231	I think we, on the part of my party, have responded to this before. That means we can, but not necessarily have to. And to what is involved in being part of the cooperation, I would say that we believe so much that Danish police, Danish intelligence services, have so much good to contribute, even when it comes to the methods of other countries, that we would rather be in the field of cooperation than outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115257	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115259	That we can, but we don't have to. In other words, in relation to the 22 legislative acts that are being adopted, and in relation to everything else that is being chosen in the future, and where there is mutual recognition that must be done, and the decisions that we shall then have to see a demonstration in Romania, where the people went on the streets and overturned their government under the slogan "Corruption kills', because the Romanian legal system is corrupt. The authorities are corrupt and it is their decisions that we are about to recognise in Denmark. That is what mutual recognition is all about. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115344	Now I got it, sir. Søren Søndergaard asked about intelligence methods. In fact, I do not understand the second example; it has nothing to do with what we are voting on. That a demonstration in Romania should have an impact on what we are voting on here today, Mr. Søren Søndergaard elaborates on the question. I simply do not understand the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115404	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115408	Thank you. It is the case that we in the Enhedslist believe in legal certainty and democracy, and I am very, very concerned that, if the legal reservation is abolished on 3 December, we will no longer be able to protect it. I would like to hear from the rapporteur why the Social Democratic Party just before voted no to ensure that if there are problems in securing the right to strike, guaranteeing the competence of the Danish courts, ensuring equality in matters of parental responsibility, guaranteeing the rights of people with disabilities in Denmark, then there must be a referendum. Why will the Social Democrats not be voting in favour of a referendum if some of these problems arise, so that we can be absolutely sure that this will not be a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115502	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115503	I would say that I am more concerned that the Enhedslisten does not show greater concern for the children and the women affected by the violence, who, with a 'no' vote, will not have the rights which are precisely the reason why we Socialists support this vote. So you can be worried in various ways... in the Social Democratic Party... we care about people. Then the rapporteur asked about the right to strike. We have no reason to believe that this should change. As the draft law makes very clear, a majority in Parliament must move forward before anything can be changed. Moreover, there is an opportunity for referendums. But I don't understand why this strike right thing is a theme for the Enhedslisten. That is not what we are discussing in relation to the forthcoming vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115550	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115551	However, this is because we want assurances that democracy will be preserved, that the Danes have an opportunity to retain fundamental rights, even if it is developing in the wrong direction at EU level. And when we've taken some of these things like... The right to strike and the rights of people with disabilities, which we want to ensure will not be impaired, is because we can see that there is a frightening development in the European Union and in a number of other European countries. And I am surprised that the Social Democratic Party is not concerned about that. I must also just say: is it to be understood that the rapporteur does not believe that there can be any problems in relation to all the future areas which could be included in the European Union if the legal reservation is abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115649	What I am saying is that this is a thoughtful example. That is not what we are going to vote on. One might try to make it a matter of the right to strike or not the right to strike, but that is not part of what we will be voting on on 3 December. In the social democracy we believe in democracy so much that we believe in the fact that the Danes choose a majority that represents them. We also have another opportunity to hold a referendum. We just do not want to set ourselves up with examples until we know what the Danes really are going to vote on. So I really think that is a very real political attitude. Enhedslisten disagrees. That is so fair, but let us stick to what we are voting on on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115734	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115738	Thank you very much. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Now the rapporteur mentioned children and children's rights, and I think we should dwell on this a little, because it is the case that Denmark today is ahead when it comes to children's rights, both in divorce cases and when it comes to equality between mothers and fathers and parents of the same sex. In other words, the right of association with your father is not something that exists in all EU countries, and if we then abolish the reservation of the law and endorse these acts, we are subject, among other things, to the right of association. this mutual recognition, which means that we in Denmark have to respect decisions on parental responsibility or association taken in other EU countries, even if it is about Danish children, and even if the Danish legislation would have come to the conclusion that the decision is not in the child's best interests. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur has an overview of the rules and legislation in this area which apply in other EU countries and which we may be forced to submit to and which will then undermine the rights of children and families.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115848	In fact, it is very serious when we are discussing the rights of children and it is serious because in recent years more children have come into contact between two legal systems. And there we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned that children do not become throwing balls, as we saw, for example, in the case between Austria and Denmark a few years ago, but that a decision applies and thus puts the child at the centre. I think that is a fair and real position to take. We stand on the side of the children and that means that they must not end up in these legal disputes, and that is the starting point for us to support this. Furthermore, there is also the issue of child abduction, and I have to say that I do not understand why the Enhedslisten will not be part of the cooperation to ensure that children are not kidnapped across European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115941	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112115942	I fully agree that this is deeply serious and therefore I also find it extremely worrying that the rapporteur is neglecting to such an extent what the Socialists are recommending and can so much attack children's rights. I would like to know whether the rapporteur recognises that if we remove the reservation of law, it is also a yes to Denmark no longer being able to determine the rules of divorce and of association with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120012	Fortunately, in recent years we have also seen developments in other European countries where they come closer and closer to Danish standards. Therefore, I think it is incredibly important that Denmark is part of this cooperation, so that with our rights in Denmark we can influence what is going on in other countries. Exactly the act mentioned by Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd is not part of what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120035	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120038	I do not really think the rapporteur was given the answer to Mr Beazley's question. Søren Søndergaard's question about mutual recognition of other courts was perhaps confused by the demonstration. But it was all about the fact that, if there is a case, and there is good reason to believe that there are corrupt courts in other EU countries, how does the rapporteur view this when it comes to mutually recognising the rulings made there?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120108	The questioner is absolutely right that Enhedslisten is constantly mixing examples into what has nothing to do with the matter. The demonstration was, after all, a very relevant example of this. When it comes to court orders and the exchange of information between intelligence services, however, it cannot be the same as they should. I think the Minister has also answered that question, and I hope that the Member of Enhedslisten has read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120138	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120140	In other words, the rapporteur believes that if a search warrant is given in another court in another country against a citizen of Denmark, the search will not be carried out. Is that what the rapporteur is saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120156	Just when it comes to cooperation on criminals, I think it is a good thing that, if there is a case where there is good reason to believe that illegal activities have been committed and if this can lead to the detection of crime, we should cooperate with authorities in other countries and follow the lead that may be. That is actually one of the reasons why we recommend a yes. This is the issue of police cooperation on the problem of cross-border crime, which, from our point of view, can only be solved jointly across countries. So, in relation to the example mentioned, we think it is quite fine that we follow the lead when it comes to criminals, and that is in the rough case, we should remember. This is serious crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120237	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the Minister for Justice has asked for a brief comment, and it is from the platform. Speaking time is 3 minutes, and then there will be the possibility of brief comments to the Minister of Justice from up to three members with normal speaking times.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120255	When Enhedslisten has fallen over among others. the European Investigation Order and questions in these relations, it is important to recall that the general rule is that the Danish Public Prosecutor may refuse to execute an investigation order if the action to which the investigation relates is not punishable under Danish law. That is the starting point. Then there are some exceptions, that is quite right and there are 32 of them. The problem, among other things: In other words, if we have been travelling in the public domain, then this is the case if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. a Danish neo-Nazi goes down to Germany and commits a breach of German law, e.g. denies the holocaust or celebrates neo-naziism, and then rushes back home to Denmark, so Enhedslisten finds it quite horrible that the German authorities can ask the Danish authorities for help. It is new when you see the extreme left so normal in the way of Danish Nazis that you are so concerned about the issues in question and their legal certainty. That's not what you've usually seen. But that is what we are discussing here. I think that when you consider German history, you might want to be a little cautious. The people who travel to Germany and commit such things will be aware of what they are doing. So I don't think the protection interest is that big. Then there is the issue of terrorism, which is also on the positive list. It may well be that Enhedslisten has a particular interest in protecting ETA in Spain. It's not something the rest of us are doing. That is why we must be honest in saying: what is the business of Enhedslisten? Who are you trying to protect? Who are you trying to protect? I would like to read out the 32 exceptions. It is trafficking in human beings; it is sexual exploitation of children and child pornography; it is illicit trafficking in drugs; it is illegal trafficking in arms, ammunition and explosive substances; it is bribery; it is fraud, including fraud, which is harmful to the financial interests of the European Union; it is usually taken into account; money laundering of proceeds from crime; counterfeiting; cybercrime; environmental crime, including illegal trafficking in endangered species of animals; complicity in illegal entry or illegal residence; deliberate manslaughter and serious bodily injury; illegal trafficking in human organs and tissues; abduction, detention and hostage-taking; racism and xenophobia; organised or armed robbery; illegal trafficking in cultural goods, including antiques and artifacts; fraud; collection of protection money and extortion; imitation and manufacture of pirate products; counterfeiting of official documents and illegal trafficking in counterfeit documents; counterfeiting of means of payment instruments; illegal trade in hormonal products and other growth-promoting substances; illicit trafficking in nuclear and radioactive materials; trafficking in weapons; trafficking in motor vehicles; rape; rape; illegal trafficking in criminal offences. The vast majority of these crimes are already covered by Danish law, and then there are a few exceptions: Holocaust denial, neo-Nazi crimes committed in Germany, seeking hiding in Denmark, the definition of terrorism. Whose business is it, Enhedslisten goes on this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120641	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. The first question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120644	I'm just about to walk out of my good skin with pleasure that the Minister of Justice is actually standing up and taking this debate at last. And I would like to start by answering the question of who it is that Enhedslisten protects. It is all citizens of a democratic society who have equal rights to expressions, to freedom of expression, to legal certainty, whether we agree with them or not. And it may well be that the Minister for Justice has joined forces with a majority here in the Folketing, who judges what is the right and wrong positions. But we actually feel in the Enhedslisten that everyone should be equal before the law. So the thing about pulling the Nazi card is just too low. What is the question here when we talk about the positive list is that there will sometimes be acts that are illegal in another country but are not illegal in Denmark. And the principle, the essence of it, namely that the Danish police should search a Danish home on the basis of an act that we have not even bothered criminalising, then the Minister of Justice must recognise is quite a step in a different direction than we normally have a tradition of in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120808	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120809	Well, that's why it's clear and nice to clarify who it really is, Enhedslisten defends, because Enhedslisten says it's all citizens. That's not true. These are some very specific citizens who are criminalised for some acts they have committed elsewhere than in Denmark and who are then not punishable under Danish law. They have violated the national law of the country concerned and then concealed themselves in Denmark. That's who Enhedslisten defends. That is, for example, the case. It is true that in Germany Holocaust denial is punished. That is absolutely right. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper really think that it is so unfair that when we work together, and when a country like Germany has chosen to punish the crime in question, and when a Dane then, knowing that this is the case, goes down to Germany and violates German law, can be affected by German legislation in Denmark? Does Mrs. Pernille Skipper really think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120910	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112120912	Yes, Mrs. Pernille Skipper really thinks so. In fact, Mrs Pernille Skipper thinks it should be the case that the things for which we send people to prosecute are also something for which a majority has actually decided to criminalise. And with the argument put forward by the Minister for Justice today, one would also have to accept, for example. to extradite children who are far below the Danish criminal low age because they have committed a criminal act in another country and are not under the criminal low age there. I think it's eight years old in Greece. I don't think the Minister of Justice thinks so either. There must actually be limits, right? Could the Minister of Justice not agree that that argument would then lead to the fact that if we were merely to recognise the legislation of other countries regardless of what and carry out searches on Danish soil on the basis of their legislation, that would be true of everything, including what is not on the positive list, which may be legal in Denmark, but illegal in another country?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121013	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121014	I do not know why Mrs Pernille Skipper is getting into something with children of eight years of age who have nothing to do with this positive list, which deals with very, very serious crimes. It's just nonsensical. Can I just say, this is going two ways? Let us now take a Danish example, which I know concerns the Enhedslisten, but which does not at all worry a huge majority in the Danish Parliament, namely the fact that we have criminalised it to receive terrorist training or to fund the otherwise legitimate activities of a terrorist organisation. We have done so in Denmark. We have criminalised the fact that this kind of training is being given or that a terrorist organisation is being financed. We can ask other countries to help us with that. I know that Enhedslisten has problems with that, but the truth is that if we were not part of the European Union, we could not ask the authorities of other countries for help in this matter, and there is tremendous support for this in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121107	The next question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121112	Thank you. The Minister of Justice describes these crimes as very, very serious crimes. I note that one of these very, very serious crimes is so evidently racism and xenophobia. There I just have to ask the Minister for Justice whether it really is the Minister for Justice's view that it is a very, very serious crime, whether the Minister for Justice believes that it is a very, very serious crime to violate Article 266b, and whether the Minister for Justice does not agree that there are rules in other EU countries such as those in question. the Swedish hets mot folkgroup, which is in fact much easier to break than § 266 b?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121205	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121207	I believe that racism in its purest form is a serious crime. Yes, I do. We have also seen historical examples of what this could bring about. Actually, I hope so, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth agrees with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121221	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121222	Yes, but let us remember, Minister of Justice, that what this is all about is whether Danish police should be able to investigate Danes who come abroad and criminalise themselves against the foreign restriction of freedom of expression. In fact, I thought that the Left Party was very concerned about freedom of expression. In fact, I thought that the Left Party believed that freedom of expression should be as wide and wide as possible, and now I hope that the Minister for Justice will not start talking again about the Holocaust and Germany, because that is what I think is derailing the debate. It is the principle that one can be punished for having spoken in another country and that the Danish police must help with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121304	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121305	Actually, I didn't quite understand if Mr. Knox... Kenneth Kristensen Berth considered that pure racism was indeed a crime; that is the prerequisite for me to be able to reply to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's question. The fact that Germany has very special conditions for criminalising, for example. Holocaust denial, I fully understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121326	Then the next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121330	Now the Minister of Justice was shocked. I would like to say that I am shocked that we have a Minister of Justice who does not know the difference between an accusation and a conviction. It's fucking sorry, sorry, I wasn't allowed to say that impressive. Well, I think you can get some backup. A Minister of Justice who is unable to know the difference between an accusation and a conviction... our Lord keep me safe!
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121359	Sorry, we have to keep a proper tone when we are debating in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121406	I shall try to keep a proper tone in relation to such a complete flagrant breach of the Constitution and of all legal principles that charges are confused with convictions. What we are talking about here is not people who are convicted; it is people who are accused of something. And anyone who has spent the least time working on human rights around the world knows, of course, that people who a system would like to get rid of are being accused of all sorts of criminal things. That's why it's interesting if there's a team in the tickets. Will Mr. Søren Pind (Fourth Vice-President, Minister of Justice), would the Minister of Justice not agree that just because there is a charge, there does not necessarily have to be substance to that charge?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121446	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121448	That is usually why a case is being investigated, in other words to find out if there is substance in it. I don't even understand what sir. Søren Søndergaard is referring to. The fact that I had to stand and say anything contrary to the Constitution would, if necessary, have been the subject of the President's Chair, so I can strongly reject that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121505	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121507	I would have been surprised if the Minister of Justice had said otherwise. But what is crucial here is precisely the issue of mutual recognition. That is how far we have to go to recognise decisions taken by the courts of other countries. And there I would agree with the Minister for Justice that if the starting point is the mistakes and shortcomings that are always the case, the courts of other countries in the European Union are at a level such as the Danish one, in terms of guaranteeing legal guarantees, no corruption, no political influence, yes, and then there is not the big problem. But is it the view of the Minister for Justice that there are no serious problems with the judiciary in a number of EU countries? Is that seriously the Minister of Justice's opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121549	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121550	I believe that Enhedslisten and other naysayers benefit from creating suspicions and suspicions about the legal systems of a large number of other countries, which are thereby generally contagious of the European legal state. I strongly disagree with that. This whole vote is about whether we believe that we can combat cross-border crime alone or, by its very nature, we must have partners. This cooperation would make no sense if the courts were not involved in it in a set and manner if evidence could be obtained if there were cooperation with the authorities. So I just want to say to Mr. Simpson... Søren Søndergaard's suspicion: I do not participate in it. Is everything perfect? No. But does this promote the Danish opportunity to combat international cross-border crime? Absolutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112121638	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. I'm here to postpone the meeting. It will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130004	The sitting is resumed. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130014	Thank you. The vote on 3 December concerns the abolition of the legal reservation. When I say that, it is of course due to the fact that there may be some confusion when you listen to what the yes parties say. It seems almost as if the voting theme is quite different. It could be Europol, it could be 22 specific acts, but the abolition of the reservation of rights does not really make use of the 'yes' parties. That is really weird, because that is what we are voting on. What is the practical consequence of a 'yes' vote on 3 December is that the majority of Parliament, in practice the Committee on European Affairs, will have the opportunity to give up sovereignty in the legal field to an unlimited extent. So it will no longer be up to the citizens in a referendum or a five-sixth majority in this Parliament to state whether or not sovereignty should be given. Yes, the parties have tried to get this debate to be about Europol and then perhaps a little bit about the 22 pieces of legislation. In fact, Europol's transition from intergovernmentalism to supranationalism is almost such a gift from the sky to the yes parties, because that is what has allowed the yes parties to have a dispute with the rule of law. Yes, one might almost say that Europol has become such a kind of bait that should lure the Danes into abolishing the legal reservation. But there are also a lot of problems in the 22 pieces of legislation. There is mutual recognition, the setting of penalties at European level and, as we heard before lunch, the possibility of effectively restricting freedom of expression. I found this very interesting, namely that the Minister of Justice considered a violation of § 266b as a quote • very, very serious crime • Quote over. This is one of the very fundamental things in our society, namely that we have freedom of expression. It is also fundamental in our society that we know when we are violating legislation. So now we are in danger of getting into the bizarre situation, for example, if we are going to get rid of it. We therefore run the risk that the Danish police will be involved in an investigation and that they will have to be extradited in order to have written something which in Denmark would have been regarded as completely within the rules and entirely legitimate. I do not understand why parties such as the Left, who are actually prided on being a freedom-loving party, felt that freedom of expression was just something that could be bought out, something that could be left to Romanian courts to assess. That is the case, and we must take note of that. I believe that the debate here should really be about the principle, about the surrender of sovereignty under Article 20 of the Constitution, and whether it is reasonable to hand over such an authority to a random majority in the Committee on European Affairs. This debate should not really be about Europol, because we all agree that Denmark must continue to be a member of Europol, and I am convinced that I am quite sure that it can be done and that Denmark will remain a member of Europol after a 'no' vote on 3 December. We have talked a lot about it, and I am happy to repeat it. There are two viable ways: it is a parallel agreement, which is the path that the Danish People's Party prefers, or the application of an opt-in system in limited form. However, there is an attempt to cast doubt on this matter, even though the question of the system of opt-outs in limited form is being tried out by experts from abroad who have no knowledge of Danish state law, yet they also contribute to confusion. In fact, one can believe that this is gradually a campaign of confusion being waged by the yes-party and not by an information campaign. But can we not all agree that, after all, the European Union does not yet have the right to change the constitution of Denmark, and that it is therefore up to the Danes and the Danish Parliament to decide how sovereignty is given out, and if the Danish Parliament was concerned about the surrender of sovereignty as something important, the message of the Constitution would probably have been maintained in § 20. There can be no doubt about the possibility of an opt-in system in limited form. Then there's a lot of talk about this being a roof-top table, so that the Danish Parliament can choose what you want and opt out of what you don't want. There is now one small comment I would like to make, namely that if Denmark chooses to take an active part from the outset in negotiating a new directive, the table will already be caught there. Whether or not we like the final result when the negotiations are concluded, we have no choice but to say yes, because it is the consequence of being at the famous table, that is to say, to accept the result, whatever the outcome may be. In fact, I think that the three times we have dealt with this proposal have had a rather inconvenient debate, because it has become such a debate about whether we who say no are the best friends of the paedophiles, the children's lovers, the pocketmen's, and I have to say again: nobody is there. All parties in the Folketing believe that these people are terrible people and that they must be prosecuted, and that is also why we say yes to Europol membership. On the other hand, there is little desire to discuss the principle, which is otherwise the most important thing. If Europol really was so important that the violence and power of God should have a 'yes' through on 3 December, why not vote alone on Europol? Because then I actually think the yes parties would have a quite good opportunity to have a yes home. But we do not, we are voting that the Constitution should be overturned in favour of a general majority in the Folketing. If the government and the yes parties want to disregard the spirit of the Danish constitution, I think it would actually be more honest to try to change the constitution rather than to make violence on it by handing over the power to surrender sovereignty to a random majority of the European Committee. And it may well be that the constitution is a difficult size to deal with, and it may well be that it would be much easier if you could just do just as it suited you here in the Parliament hall, but it is after all a basic law. It would be honest to recognise it and to have a debate on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130802	The first person who has asked for the floor for a brief comment is Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130806	In addition to Europol and I am pleased that the rapporteur recognises that it is still important for Denmark to be part of this • we are also voting on 22 legislative acts. Nine of them are about police cooperation. Can the rapporteur give an example of one of the acts that he does not think we should be part of?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130828	Just as the government and the yes parties have chosen to present it here as a single package, which one has to take a decision on and say yes or no to, the Danish People's Party also takes the view that this is a comprehensive package to which one has to say yes or no. It has to be said that the package has been put together so that under no circumstances can we recommend the Danes to say yes, because the package is not a good package. It may well be that there are some things that can be positive. Much of this we can choose to implement in Danish legislation ourselves, such as we. has done so in the area of trafficking in human beings. But I have to say that, as the package is now put together, we cannot support it, we cannot recommend it to the Danish electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130913	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130915	I would actually like to ask for an answer to my question from the rapporteur. He didn't answer at all. What are the legal acts against which the Danish People's Party is opposed? Is it that women who have a violent ex-husband should not have peace and security when travelling in other EU countries? Are the children supposed to remain hostages between two legal systems? Which of the 22 acts is the Danish People's Party against? You can just give one example.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112130943	Now Mrs Trine Bramsen is again trying to bring the debate down to a low level, which is not, of course, about the principle, namely the right to surrender sovereignty. But I would like to say something to the rapporteur, for example. this highly regarded directive on the rights of children after divorce, etc. The problem is that it will often be the court that comes first with a ruling that will actually have that ruling implemented. It may well be that the ruling by a Romanian court that the father of a child should have custody is, in fact, the wrong one. It may well be. But it's going to be very fast just about who comes first.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131021	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131024	Thank you. In fact, I find it almost embarrassing that the rapporteur cannot respond to what some of the 22 or just mention one piece of legislation is not supported by the Danish People's Party. In fact, I am a little surprised that the rapporteur mentions precisely human trafficking, because we all know that if it is a yes, Denmark will accede to the Trafficking in Human Beings Directive and that will mean that we will move from observer status to a permanent place in the European Union. So the rapporteur must at least be able to confirm his agreement. See, in his speech, the rapporteur mentioned the possibility of a parallel agreement, which we all know will limit the work of the police. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he can confirm that Denmark has asked for six parallel agreements and that we have only got four through and that, on that basis, it can be said that we cannot be sure of a parallel agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131121	Mrs Jane Heitmann knows very well, or ought to know at least that the Trafficking in Human Beings Directive has been implemented in Danish legislation, and exactly as far as that legal act is concerned, there is in fact no real change in the situation that Denmark is facing, regardless of what we will vote on 3 December. Then, with regard to the legal acts addressed by Mrs Jane Heitmann, I would like to say that they are all ahead of the Treaty of Lisbon and that the Treaty of Lisbon has changed the conditions for achieving a parallel agreement. That is why we cannot compare in the way the rapporteur does. In fact, this corresponds to referring to how legislation was made in Denmark according to the Basic Law before 1953.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131202	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131203	I can then confirm that Denmark has applied for six parallel agreements and that we have got four through, and that we cannot therefore be sure that we can have a parallel agreement, although I can hear that it would sound inconvenient if that were how one could arrange oneself. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he can confirm that the Norwegian parallel agreement on Europol or on mutual legal assistance has been a long time in the process. It took three years to get the agreement, and it took ten years to ratify it. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131236	After all, the Left and other parties are very concerned about calling things by their proper name, and as far as I understand it is an operational agreement, but peace be with it. What Mrs Jane Heitmann says is certainly correct, but we must remember that Norway is in a different situation from Denmark. After all, Denmark is actually a member of the European Union, Norway is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131256	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131300	Thank you for that, and thank the rapporteur for once again fully demonstrating that the rapporteur has not understood anything of it all. This is not about abolishing the reservation of law, it is about transforming the reservation of law. Denmark still has a reservation, it just changes the status of bringing the decision in here in certain areas. After all, the rapporteur illustrated his ignorance in this area at first reading when I asked the question: what are some of the 22 pieces of legislation that are against? I did so with reference to the fact that the Danish People's Party is in favour of Europol. The rapporteur replied: that is the 21 others. Now the rapporteur may have been told that Europol is not one of the 22, so there are 22 others. Mrs Trine Bramssen asked this question earlier, and I would like to ask again: what are some people against? I'm in on all that general with sovereignty and the ditto and the date. What kind of people are you against? For the rapporteur said that we were against the 21 others. Does the rapporteur really think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131406	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen must be the best person to be able to judge whether you are expressing an opinion on something you do not have an insight into, since it is more or less Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Mr Ellemann-Jensen's usual job as political rapporteur. But apart from that, I would like to say to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, what I also said to Mrs Trine Bramsen, namely that I regard this as a single package, just as I assume that the yes parties see it here as a single package. Otherwise, they would probably not ask the Danes to take a position on the abolition of the legal reservation in the form of 22 specific acts and Europol, as well as a general authorisation for the Folketing to surrender sovereignty in the field of justice and home affairs in JHA. That is why I also have to deal with it as a package. That is why I cannot stand here and extract every piece of legislation. I can say that we are opposed to the package that has been presented to the Danes to take a position here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131459	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131501	That is clear speech and a rather different speech from the one we heard at first reading. I don't know if it's because you've gotten more into things along the way. In any case, I can say that the Danish People's Party is a very prominent Member of the European Parliament, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, occasionally speaks out in this area and says: Well, there are many of them here that the Danish People's Party can support. So I would like to ask: is the Danish People's Party opposed to recovery of claims across national borders? Is the Danish People's Party opposed to a violent ex-girlfriend's restraining order being taken abroad? Does the Danish People's Party oppose the effective fight against trafficking in human beings? Is the Danish People's Party against clarity about the rules of succession? Or what is the Danish People's Party against? For the rapporteur, we are against the 21 others. The rapporteur did not say: we see it as an overall package. The rapporteur said that we are against the 21 others. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131554	There is no difference at all between what the rapporteur said at first reading and what the rapporteur says today. We are still opposed to the package as a whole. We are opposed to the legal acts that they are now and there is, in fact, nothing to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131611	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131611-2	Thank you. Well, I would like to follow up where the rapporteur stopped, and then say that it is of course an interesting consideration that we are talking about a single package. I know that it is a completely fundamental part of the Danish People's Party's argument that we want to separate the package in order to be able to vote on the individual parts. And now you are suddenly in favour of a single package. I think that is quite a turnaround, if I may put it that way. That brings me to my question. I noticed that the rapporteur said a moment ago that there may well be some parts of the package that are positive. And I'm just gonna have to see if I can't have mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth to elaborate. What are the elements which are good, but which are still not prepared to accept because of the package as a whole?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131659	Yeah, but I'm just gonna start by informing Mr. Knox. Morten Løkkegaard says that we are not in favour of this package, as Mr. Morten Løkkegaard said it, we are in fact opposed to the package. Well, now it's kind of sir. Morten Løkkegaard's party and the other jalots that have composed this package. We cannot do much about that, even though we have tried to do something about it. The Enhedslisten has tabled some amendments today, which have unfortunately been voted down, in order to make this package a little less inedible, but we do not want to be involved in that. You only want to help make that package more and more uneatable. And then I also have to deal with it as a package, and it may well be that Mr. Morten Løkkegaard finds it incredibly exciting to sit and stick in the individual pieces of legislation, and it may well be that some of them, as I have said, can be positive elements in, but the overall picture is absolutely crystal clear: we cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131749	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131750	Well, we're talking about legal acts, and on other occasions, when the rest of us are talking about details, we're being taunted for saying from the very same platform that this is all about legal acts. I guess it is now, I guess. So there's nothing we're sticking in. We are talking about very specific things, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen a moment ago tried to sketch out and to which we have still not received an answer: Is the Danish People's Party against Danish women being able to get a restraining order when they leave? Are you opposed to proper inheritance rules so that Danish pensioners do not have to dispose of their summer homes abroad? Will it not help to ensure that Danish children who are caught up in divorce proceedings receive better rights? Can't we get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131835	Yes, but it's just a very, very high price to pay for saying yes to those things that a majority in the Folketing can send sovereignty to the EU and that we can no longer get the keys to our border back. How many Danes does it really concern that there are clear inheritances, and how many Danes who have bought houses abroad can really benefit from this? Well, it may well be that in isolation it can be very sensible, but you just have to look at the whole thing, and it has to be said that we are paying a very, very high price in order to safeguard the interests that these people may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131912	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112131914	Well, that's where it gets completely mysterious with the arguments of the Danish People's Party. It is said that it is a single package, but you cannot decide on the individual parts of the package. That's a weird way to look at packages. I mean, it's what's inside the package that's crucial. And we still need to get the Danish People's Party's answer as to why it will not support the fact that violence-stricken women who receive a restraining order in Denmark can take their police restraining orders with them to other countries. And don't talk about cross-border trade and come up with all sorts of chatter and extracurricular talk, but specifically answer the question: Why is the Danish People's Party opposed to it? Why is it opposed to someone having better opportunities to get the money back if a company from another country goes bankrupt here in Denmark and moves to another country? Why are you opposed to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132009	In relation to the first, it is because, among other things, a situation arises in which a former spouse, a violent spouse, is informed, for example, of where the person in question, to whom he has a restraining order, disappears, and we do not think this is particularly appropriate. So there are actually very many good reasons why we are sceptical about many of these pieces of legislation. But it should not be allowed to shy away from the question of principle, which is that, contrary to the spirit of the Constitution, a general majority in the Folketing is empowered to surrender sovereignty, not even to a certain extent, but to an unlimited extent, because we do not know what is going to happen in the future in the area of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132056	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132058	Well, we're on completely safe ground compared to section 20 of the Constitution in these cases. The truth is concrete, and instead of driving out into all sorts of legal subtleties, which are purely outside talk, then go and relate to why a violent woman cannot be allowed to take her restraining order with her. That is what I understand the Danish People's Party does not want to support, and one is against that. I'd like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132136	I have, of course, explained this several times, and I shall gladly do it again for Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen's fault. This is because it is part of a package that we cannot support. But when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen would like to discuss the 22 acts and Europol, why on earth is it that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has not stood firm that this was just what we were going to vote on? Why is that, sir? Holger K. Nielsen wants authority to hand over sovereignty to the EU? Why? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132209	No one else has signed up on the list of speakers. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132231	Thank you. A great deal has already been said about this referendum and about the bill here. Anyone sitting in this Chamber who has taken part in three readings will be able to testify to this. So please excuse me if there are elements of repetition in what is now coming. But for everyone's sake, we're gonna take it one more time. If it should have escaped someone's attention, we in the Left are very concerned that Denmark, after 3 December too, is a country where we have ensured with a clear yes that it will be safer to be a Dane, harder to be a criminal and easier to be a business. By transforming the legal reservation into an optional arrangement, we board a very favorable roof-table. It is good just before Christmas, where we are free to choose between the courts, i.e. the common rules and cooperation, which the Danes clearly benefit from, which we are demonstrating in the debate here, and not least the Danes have the opportunity to choose the less tasty dishes from. The direct reason for the vote is, of course, that the Danish police stand to have to leave this excellent police cooperation Europol when next year becomes a supranational agency. It requires an active option. We are therefore voting in favour of what we know, in order to avoid the uncertainty of being outside. But also in other areas, as we are discussing here, it makes a great deal of sense to opt for what is common. The legal reservation has prevented us from participating in a number of very, very sensible things. More effective cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human beings, child abuse, cybercrime, counterfeiting, but also more earthy things that we hear here. Why should a Danish woman whose violent ex-husband has received a restraining order not be able to be protected by it abroad? Why should the pensioner who inherits a summer house after his deceased wife in Spain not be able to inherit the house? Why do Danish children have to get caught up in divorce proceedings because parents are in different countries with different courts' rulings? Why should you not be able to get your money at the net store in Germany if you just bought a refrigerator that doesn't work? Why should Danish companies not be able to come after bankrupts who have fled abroad and have grabbed the money? The Danish People's Party, we have just been demonstrated, owes the voters an answer to these questions. Why is it opposed to giving the Danes these completely sensible improvements in their lives? Or is it even against? One might be a little in doubt about that when one hears about some of the elements, but they say off against the overall package as it is called. Then I'll have to ask the Liberal Alliance a question too. It was said at first reading that you are in favour of everything. So, the Liberal Alliance is in favour of including these 22 acts, but yet we recommend a 'no' on 3 December. What does that mean? After all, both the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance do not miss a chance to get close to Britain when it comes to the European Union. That is fine; we have no problem with that in the Left. But it is precisely Britain that has said yes to an opt-in system such as the one on which we are going to vote. Denmark has actually copied the British when we were going to have our opt-in system. The United Kingdom has elected two thirds of legal acts. Two thirds, much more than 22 acts. Are the British suddenly wrong? Are the Irish, who have also been given this arrangement and who have largely chosen it all for? The British are happy with the arrangement, they say so themselves. We in Denmark lack answers as to why the Danes should not have the improved rights we are talking about and what concrete acts, like other DFs, object to. For the Left there is no doubt: on 3 December the Danes have the opportunity to secure a safer and easier life by voting yes. We have negotiated an extremely attractive roof-top table, where you can choose for yourself which parts of EU cooperation in the legal field you want to participate in, also in the future. An overwhelming majority both here in the Danish Parliament and among the many organizations affected by the cooperation I mention in large measure the police, Save the Child, Children's Conditions, Nest on Vesterbro, both employees and employers in this country • fully support a yes. Total 24 organisations. In our opinion, no one has yet been able to give a serious alternative, but instead uses the time to create maximum noise, which this debate can well bear witness to. You can't blame anyone that many people are confused. In the Left we say clearly: if you are in doubt, then vote yes, if only to help our skilled police. The Left therefore recommends voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132707	The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132713	Thank you. The thing about saying yes, if you're in doubt, I'm not quite sure that's a good idea. I think the opposite is a good idea. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the rapporteur is one of the rapporteurs who is incredibly concerned about what is going to happen to himself and that if Denmark is going to be at the table that the rapporteur is so concerned about Denmark being involved in, and then we start by negotiating a new directive, then we are also obliged to say yes to that directive when the negotiations are concluded, regardless of whether we actually agree with the outcome. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132753	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132800	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132801	Look, I like answers like that, I really like that. And the fact is that what that table does is that if you want to be at the table, you also have to, if you have said yes on 3 December, sometimes say yes to a lot of things that you basically do not want. You have to have that in mind, because that's not how big that roof-top table is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132824	Well, for me, it's perfectly logical that if you want to be in something, you sit down at the table. And as the scheme is made, as this roof table is made, you commit yourself, of course, when you enter into a cooperation, and that is why it is of course necessary that you join in in principle and then sit down to negotiate. If, on the other hand, you take the view that you are turning your back on everything, which is unfortunately the position of the Danish People's Party in this matter, then you have to report it immediately, and then you are not in it, and that is the way it is. I think that is perfectly logical, and that is part of the spirit of cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132857	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112132859	Thank you. I could not help noticing that the rapporteur pointed out that the Nest on Vesterbro recommends a 'yes' vote. I have also heard the rapporteur say in the past that Save the Child recommends a yes. After all, both organisations have pointed out that they do not recommend a 'yes' vote. If I may just read a quote from the Development Manager at Neden: 'We do not recommend either a yes or a no in the vote on 3 December. We are only dealing with the issue of trafficking in human beings, which is the area we work with every day. But the vote is about something other than that. And we have not taken a position on the other parts of the legal reserve and the electoral system. Could the rapporteur not just confirm that what both Save the Children and the Nest have said is that they are very enthusiastic about the work of Europol, and that is what they think should continue to do, but whether it should be a yes or a no they have not taken a full position on and that perhaps the rapporteur has just come to push their position a little too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133007	I do not know whether Mrs Pernille Skipper and I have attended the same meetings, but at the meetings I have attended with Save the Children, it has been indisputable that the consequence of having the position they have is that we have to vote yes on 3 December. That's what they say. So whoever disputes words here, I can be a little in doubt about, because it is clear that we cannot demand that the individual organisation we are talking about here should deal with the rest. They must of course deal with what is their business. And there is no doubt at all if you ask in Save the Child and Children's Terms. They recommend that we say 'yes' on 3 December, because that will mean that they will continue to participate in Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133050	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133052	The rapporteur does not answer, for example, in good time. What the Nest says, namely that they do not recommend a yes or a no in the vote on 3 December. It may well be that the rapporteur has interpreted and understood the clear position on, among other things. Europol and the cybercrime directive, which I have heard Save the Children have been right, but Save the Children has also said very clearly that it does not mean that they recommend a definite yes. So perhaps we have come to push the statements a little too far. In any case, we could just ask: is it not true that the Nest does not recommend either a yes or a no, but does it have some views on Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133139	I would remind you that when I get up, it is because the speaking time is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133143	It is true that there are many of us who are very concerned about interpreting what is being said around, and I allow myself to interpret that is also what I did in my answer before what these organisations are concerned with and what they want for the future. I think it is my obvious right to be able to say, when it is a perfectly logical consequence of a yes, that we continue in Europol, and when it is a perfectly logical consequence of a 'no', that we are out of Europol, that then it must be understood as backing up. I think that is fair and proper, and I am very concerned about that. We can, of course, continue to have a semantic discussion up here about how to interpret what, but I think that what I am doing and what I am trying to say here is fair and proper, although I understand that when they are then punked by other political interests, organisations are busy being careful. I should not blame them for this, because those organisations are getting a lot of shoes shot as they are running at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133238	Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133241	I would actually like to follow up on Mrs Pernille Skipper's question. Because I'm looking at the Save the Children's website, and I just noted that Mrs Pernille Skipper said that Save the Children hasn't said anything about this and almost as well could say no as yes. After all, Mrs Pernille Skipper quoted the Nest, and I will quote from the Save Children's website: "For us it is crucial that Denmark stays in European cooperation under Europol on just as good terms as it is today. According to the Ministry of Justice, the Danish legal reservation means that Denmark will have to leave Europol cooperation with the new Europol regulation, which is expected to be adopted next year. Set on the lead, Save the child fears that it will mean that there will be cases that cannot be investigated, and offenders who will not be prosecuted. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that it can be interpreted, as Mrs Pernille Skipper says, namely that Save the Child recommends a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133336	I think that's what you call a leading question. But I'd be happy to answer it anyway. I fully agree, of course, that this is the way to interpret it. And I have to say that in addition to these quotes that we can throw at each other, it is also worth going to the people who actually sit as leaders in those organisations and talk to themselves. I just have to say that, if this is about Save the Child, there is no doubt at all. They are, of course, very sorry to be misinterpreted, because they have no doubt whatsoever that we will vote 'yes' on 3 December, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133407	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133410	After all, I am sitting next to Mrs Pernille Skipper and she is very angry that I am a little demagogic, so now I want to be more fair. That's what you have to be. On the Save the Children's website it says they're worried if you can do it here in the future. And I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur will elaborate on what the challenges may be in terms of prosecuting children in children's cases • children who are being violated across borders • what the opportunities will be about a yes and what the opportunities and challenges will be about a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133440	Well, I am also extremely happy about that question, because it gives me the opportunity to tell you that at the moment, while I'm standing here and you're sitting there, there are 750,000 people in 750,000 who are currently downloading and watching child pornography all over the world. Save the child making a fantastic effort in close cooperation with Europol to solve just some of these crazy crimes. So, for example... The trial running in East Jutland at the moment about the 48-year-old man from Randers, whom some of you have probably heard about, is just a glass-clear example of this close cooperation in Europol, which means that you can actually help to unravel these terrible cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133523	Next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133526	Thank you. Now, sir. Morten Løkkegaard is a good propagandist, which is why I understand that Mr. Morten Løkkegaard uses all the positive aspects of what is called mutual recognition. For fairness's sake, sir. Morten Løkkegaard mention one negative thing by mutual recognition? In relation to the whole discussion we have had now, and especially in recent speeches: would it not have been better for the debate if we had taken the various legal acts separately instead of pile it together, so that people who are very interested in Europol and think that we should vote for it absolutely, then also have to opt for something that they have either not taken a position on or do not like? Would it not have been better for us to have had such a vote where we could decide for ourselves instead of someone who, like, made himself a taster and decided that this is exactly what we are going to vote on and either you take it or you are convicted out?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133625	I find that very, very difficult to understand. In other words, there has been a process since last autumn, where five parties have put themselves together to bury every piece of legislation that could benefit the Danes and which, in their opinion, was not in favour of the Danes, in order to ensure that the Danes become safer, that it becomes more difficult to be a criminal and that it becomes easier to be a company. This has been the starting point for six months of work between five parties, after which 22 legal acts will be reached, which will make it easier and easier and safer to be a Dane without any doubt. Why would we not do that? After all, we are put in here to ensure that the Danes have a better life. So what's the rationale in that? That doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133707	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133709	Then I need a little advice and guidance. If you take the view that you would very much like to vote in favour of the directive on the possibility of moving a restraining order, but are totally opposed to corrupt courts in different countries having to influence the possibility of conducting searches in Denmark, what should you vote for? Should you vote 'yes' or should you vote 'no'?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133738	Well, I'm not buying the premise. It's a political choice. It's a very political issue, sir. Søren Søndergaard is there, because this is about us taking a position. After all, we have taken a political position among the five parties, which make up a large majority in this Parliament, that exactly the 22 acts we think we would recommend to the Danes. So this thing with the corrupted courts and all this snitch talk that we've heard today isn't an premise we're buying in advance. So a false premise has been added to the question. The 22 things that we have agreed on and that we are now putting to the vote are something that we are in favour of and that we believe gives clear benefits to the Danes. That is the logical political explanation for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133811	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133813	Thank you. I noticed that the rapporteur said in his speech that we are voting in favour of what we know, which is a little fun in itself, because we have to assume that we are doing that when we vote on it. But I would just like to hear: can the rapporteur confirm that he is completely and 100% familiar with all aspects of what we are voting on today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133835	It was a funny question whether I am aware of all aspects of all proposals. I do not know whether there has ever been anyone here in the Folketing who has been familiar with every detail in every aspect of every bill one hundred percent. That's a strange question to ask. I believe that with the through trawling we have been doing since the autumn of last year and looking forward to the spring when we came up with the 22 pieces of legislation, we have done a rather thorough job. Maybe even a little more thorough than you usually do in this thing. So I think we are really, really well into the matter of individual acts. Otherwise we would not recommend it to the Danes either. So in that sense, yes. But you can, of course, stand up here playing discussion club in Legal Policy Association and something like that. But it is not politics in this Parliament, as I understand it at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133915	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133917	It may well be that the rapporteur thinks it is a strange question. But it is also strange to ask people to vote on something that you cannot explain yourself. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur to state that there is in fact a professor of law who has said that we are giving up sovereignty to an undetailed extent. What, then, is the scope that is not described?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112133935	Well, I would like to embark on a major state-law discussion up here, and I also know that professional knowledge of those parts has different opinions. It would be surprising if it were different. It would be the first time in the history of Denmark. After all, this is about an assessment of this by the top lawyers in the Ministry of Justice, and there are no 20-problems in it. This was established as far back as 2007, and I would recommend that statement to everyone. It's not reading for kids, I'd like to admit that. Nevertheless, one can learn more by reading it, and I would recommend that the questioner do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134008	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134010	Thank you. Now I thought that the rapporteur of the Left was quite quick with his reply. When he is asked about some things that could in future be referred to transferring to supranational level in the European Union, that is part of the package that we are going to vote on. It says that Parliament can decide, not by a five-sixth majority, not by putting it to a referendum, but by taking a decision on it by a quite ordinary majority. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134042	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134046	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134047	Then I do not understand at all how it was a fantasy issue, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard asked. It's quite natural to ask that question, because there can be a lot of exciting things. This morning six questions were discussed in which the Enhedslisten asked whether the Left would help to ensure that the rule of five sixths majority or referendum was discussed when such crucial things as the United Kingdom. conflict law and other things could move to supranational level. And the Left said, No, we will not do that. In other words, there would only be a general majority to decide in the future when sovereignty is transferred to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134123	I repeat: what we are discussing on 3 December is the surrender of sovereignty, yes. Then it is up to the Folketing, if you want to change something in the future, to decide on it. I do not think we have in any way denied that from this platform, at all. What we're just saying, unlike Enhedslisten, is that you can leave it to an overwhelming majority in this Things to make decisions, for example. About whether a woman can take his violent husband's restraining order with her abroad, and that sort of thing. We do not think this is a greater decision in terms of sovereignty than sending Danish soldiers to war or other things. In fact, I think you can be confident that the Danish Parliament can decide. So, yes, it is a question of surrendering sovereignty. I don't think we've denied that. But what we're offering the Danes in this package is definitely okay compared to what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134218	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134219	Thank you. A short time ago, the rapporteur of the Left said that it was a wrong premise that there should be problems with the legal systems around in some EU Member States. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the rapporteur thinks about the Hungarian legal system and whether, frankly, the rapporteur is confident that Danes and Danish companies can end up in a situation where they can be monitored and searched on the basis of decisions taken by Hungarian courts outside Danish courts if the legal reservation is abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134258	Firstly, I did not say that it was a wrong premise that the legal systems are different, just to put it in place. In order to deal with what the questioner is asking, I would like to say that this is simply nonsense. So, if it is the case that Danish companies are convicted in another country and that should apply to Danish companies in Denmark, then it is always the Danish legal system and the Danish rules that apply. A Danish judge can go in and do something about it. I have to say that. It's not like a Hungarian judge can go in and claim these things. One can easily imagine that it can be done, but it is not the same as that it absolutely happens, and that is the difference. If it is that a Danish company has done something wrong, then of course harmonisation means that one can do something like that. But why should it be suspicious of the fact that the Hungarian legal system is generally corrupt? I'm not buying that premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134356	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134358	Mutual recognition applies not only to Denmark but also to Hungary and Italy or other countries. So, I hope we agree that this is how mutual recognition is interpreted in the European Union, namely that if a Hungarian court makes a decision, for example, that a Dane under the Investigation Directive should be monitored or searched on the basis of something that is illegal in Hungary but is not illegal in Denmark, then that decision can be taken without the involvement of Danish courts. It will have effect, and the Danish police will have to carry it out. That is the reality. That is why I just ask: are we not worried about, for example, the Hungarian legal system, where we have seen that there is great political interference with the dismissal of judges and interference from the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134447	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134448	After all, the questioner asked about companies, and then suddenly something is mentioned about the legal system and searches and such. Well, I just have to say that this applies to some matters and not to other matters. Depends on the nature of the crime. In some cases it is possible to carry out searches. If so, the Danish police will do so. In other cases, a judge must be present to ensure that that question is dealt with on Danish soil. And it is not certain that it necessarily leads to a search. It depends on the nature of the crime. So it's a more complicated question than that. It is actually something that causes a lot of puzzles around, because you have to interpret it. The only thing we can be 100% sure of is that it's being done to help the police and to make cooperation more effective. After all, no one is beginning to imagine in advance that Hungarian justice will apply in Denmark. This is simply nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134544	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134546	After all, the referendum is about abolishing the legal reservation, that is to say, a small majority in the European Committee can transfer more power to the European Union, and indeed the amendments tabled earlier by the Enhedslisten have been voted down. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur could mention some points where the Left felt it might be reasonable to ask the people if, as we had mentioned, for example. intervened in relation to the right to strike in Denmark and thus undermined the Danish model. The Left will not have that in a referendum. But could there be some other areas in which the Left thinks that it might be reasonable to ask the Danes, or does it seriously mean that in future all kinds of surrender of sovereignty will only take place in the Committee on European Affairs with a narrow majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134634	No. In other words, all forms of surrender of sovereignty are not involved here. This is a very limited area, in which it is therefore certain acts that we are asking the Danes to deal with. In the future, it will still be the case that you can choose from and choose what you think is right in relation to whether it benefits the Danes. May I say, on the small majority, that I have now heard it many times here. For those of us who sit down in the Committee on European Affairs every Friday, I have to say that it may well be that we are not so many present, but we represent the Folketing and the majority that exists in the Folketing at all times, otherwise it should be strange that we sat down there every Friday, and that is not a small majority. In the vast majority of cases, it is an overwhelming majority. So the attempt to present it as if it were some sneaky majority sneaking in on a Friday afternoon is at best signposted. May I say, then, that we have just had one example: the issue of foreigners, asylum and immigration. We in the government and in the Left think this is a matter for a referendum before we might start tampering with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134727	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134728	Now that the Left repeatedly describes this so-called opt-in system as such a roof self-table, remember that once you have chosen a right, you have to eat it. So it wasn't almost a better picture to say that now we sit in the nursing home and close the local production kitchen, and then we get all the food ordered from the central kitchen, vacuum packed, and you can choose between 22 dishes? Isn't that a better picture? And then the Committee on European Affairs and the Folketing have been reduced to a business kitchen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134759	Well, I appreciate the questioner's sense of humor and rhetoric here. But I just have to say that for me, if we're going to stay in the language, a roof-table is a positive thing. I know there are different views about the roof-table here, but I actually like the roof-table, I like the idea that you choose for yourself. I don't think there's anything central-kitchen about this, because the whole principle of this is that we choose for ourselves. It's not like having a roof table is all cut. There are only two countries so far, and now hopefully also Denmark, which has actually won the right to have a roof-top table during tough negotiations. The others don't even have a rooftop table.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134835	No one else has signed up for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112134856	After all, a majority in the Folketing rejected our proposal earlier today to guarantee the people the last word in relation to seven essential areas which are important for democracy in Denmark, but which also affect people's daily lives. We think that's too bad. Of course, the Folketing is wonderful, but sometimes it happens that it would be wiser for the people to have the last word. That is why we had set up the red lines, for which there was no majority, and people must then assess what it means when they are going to vote on 3 December. In relation to our proposal, we were accused of the fact that it was not likely that we would move into the areas we had mentioned there were some who used stronger words than that it was not likely to happen, but I think we will have to start here just as to establish what is the purpose of the EU's common legal policy. It is clear from the Treaties what is the purpose of the EU's common legal policy, and that is to work for, and I quote: 'a rapprochement of the criminal law of the Member States'. That's the point. That is why it is very strange that when we give examples of how to approximate the criminal law of the Member States, they say: no, no, it is totally unthinkable; it is absolutely impossible; it is not possible at all. But that is something that is being discussed in concrete terms in the European Parliament. Well, I'm sorry, you can just go down there; you don't have to sit down there like I did for 7 years. You can just check what's under discussion. These are quite specific matters that are being discussed. And that is no more unrealistic than the fact that some of those areas have a concrete proposal character, for example. on the issue of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. And there I have found that the yes parties have agreed that they are going to say no to that. But I also know that that decision can be changed after a parliamentary election. There may be a new majority which may decide to elect it, or the parties may change their position on an EU issue. Now I don't know why I'm looking at mr. Holger K. Nielsen, but it may happen that parties change their views on an EU issue. It is therefore not entirely unrealistic to claim that, after a forthcoming parliamentary election, we may be in the position where a majority in the Folketing will elect the European Public Prosecutor. That's not impossible. Then the question is: why should the people not have the last word on this matter? I think that is an interesting question. That is why we also have to say that this is about trust, and it is about credibility; it is about how to assess the development of the European Union. And there we have just some examples, and the example I would like to mention is Vaxholm. And before the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs come up and tell me that it wasn't under the legal basis. I know it wasn't under the legal basis, it was under the internal market basis. Because in Denmark, it was a starting point for our participation in the European Union that we did not interfere in the areas where we broke the nuts ourselves. When a case was brought before the European Court of Justice against the Swedish trade union movement in order to demand equal conditions for visiting foreigners and Swedes on the Swedish labour market, the Danish Prime Minister wrote a letter to the European Court of Justice. At that time he was named Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and he wrote in that letter that he would just point out that it was a basis for Denmark's accession to the EU that the EU did not interfere in industrial relations, and if they did, they should certainly not interfere in the right to strike. Former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen wrote this down to the EU. And what did the European Court of Justice do? They said: Fuck off, it is not something you should decide; it is not something the Prime Minister of Denmark should decide, it will decide the European Court of Justice then. And they made a decision which meant that the Swedish trade union movement was sentenced to a great penance for having fought in Sweden for there being equal relations between foreign and Swedish workers. Did anyone see that coming? Excuse me, but when we had the debate on the Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which stated that the right to strike was guaranteed, and we asked whether it was right and whether it was guaranteed in relation to the internal market, that was not what was predicted. Nah, well, there was the right to strike, everything was good, but the European Court of Justice said: you don't decide that, we decide that. And, as they can do in relation to internal market legislation, they can also do so in the area of justice and in other areas when they become supranational. And I just have to say that if you are not based on it, if you are not based on that knowledge, if you are not based on that experience, then you are based on thin air. There, of course, you can place yourself in the blue air, but the result is not so credible that I can urge someone to vote in favour of it. I wonder, by the way, if it is so completely unlikely with the scenarios we set up, then you could promise the people a referendum. Then you could say calmly: okay, if the right to strike gets stuck, or if children's rights get stuck, family rights, lgbtq rights, etc., then there is no problem, then you will have a referendum, because it is quite unlikely that this will happen. But you wouldn't. And you have to ask, why didn't you dare? Perhaps because you are in doubt about your own promises, and there is good reason for this, because all historical experience since 1972 shows that many of the things that japoliticians said could not happen have actually happened. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance, thank you to the Danish People's Party, thank you for having voted in favour, and thank you to the alternative for the basic support that this kind of question should be put to a referendum, even though we disagreed on the actual form of it in this case. Then there is the issue of mutual recognition, because that is the key point. Mutual recognition is based on the fact that there are two sides to the coin. There is one side, and it can be positive, but when there is something positive, there is also something negative. When others have to recognise the decisions of Danish courts and authorities, we also have to recognise the decisions of other courts and authorities. It's as simple as that. This then requires us to have confidence in the authorities and courts of other countries to which we are leaving that power, and I think that this might be taken a little lightly, to put it mildly. The Minister of Justice did so before, and the rapporteur of the Left did so now. Then I would like to mention the example of Romania, which the Socialist rapporteur did not understand in the past. I believe that the government has just been overthrown in Romania. Why has it been overturned? It has been overturned because people have gone on the streets for tens of thousands and have said: Corruption kills. They have discovered that the authorities and courts in Romania are so corrupt that, for example, they are so corrupt. can cost 100 or how many lives it was in some fire because the authorities condone violations of the rules. So it is just that I am asking: is it sensible to make mutual recognition with authorities that the country's own people go on the streets and say that you cannot be trusted? Is it sensible to make mutual recognition in relation to authorities in which the people overturn their government on the assumption that the authorities are corrupt? I'm sorry, I'm saying it, I don't think it's very wise. Then it can be said that it is only Romania. Okay, what about Bulgaria? What about Italy and Italy's status as a country in the Council of Europe in relation to violations of elementary rights for accused people, for example?? Or what about Hungary, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen mentioned? In Hungary, all Supreme Court judges were fired by Orbán for political reasons. Well, I'm sorry, I'm saying it, it's the kind of authorities and courts with which we make mutual recognition, and I have to admit that I don't think that's wise. It may be that there are some here who think it is wise. That's a discussion we're gonna have to discuss. I would urge the people to support the view that this is not wise. This is, after all, a very general discussion, in addition to the concrete one, it is a general discussion about whether we should transfer the right to make decisions in this area from the population to a majority of politicians in the Folketing. It may be a majority of 1, it may be a majority of 5. I do not think this is a good trade for the people. That is why I am not going to call on the 'yes' side to vote 'no' because they will have more power, but I would urge the people to vote 'no' if the people want to retain the power they have and not give it to a random majority of politicians at Christiansborg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112135800	The first in the line of questioners is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112135803	Thank you. I have two children, Valdemar of 10 and Kamma of 15, and they are, of course, closely following the debate and what we are going to vote on, what we are going to vote yes or no to. At home we don't believe in brainwashing, so I try to explain it rather objectively, but I find it extremely difficult to explain why some people recommend no. Because when the question of whether they are against Europol comes up, the answer is that they want Europol. That's how I have to understand it. But are they opposed to the fact that if you have divorced and have children who have been removed to another country, you can also bring them back home? Are they against that? No, they think it is reasonable to do so. So when I hear Mr. Knox... Søren Søndergaard speaks today, I also understand that when you take the individual acts piece by piece, you almost think that they are all quite reasonable. I also heard that it was actually imagined and I would like the rapporteur's confirmation that, instead of having a vote on the whole package, we should have 22 referendums in the future. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112135908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112135909	I do not know whether I can have the permission of the President to repeat my rapporteur's speech, because I understand that the questioner has not really heard it. After all, I have actually driven a huge torpedo right through a number of the pieces of legislation on mutual recognition. Isn't that pretty clear? All the legal acts relating to mutual recognition cannot be recognised and approved because they contain mutual recognition. Then there are some elements in those that can be fine and that we can make an intergovernmental agreement or try to change an intergovernmental agreement. Of course. But when the questioner and his family are sitting at home around the table, they can raise the question of whether, if you are going to have a small family decision on where to go on Sunday, it is something you have to decide among the four, or whether it is something the neighbour should decide or be involved in. There I think it might be appropriate to say that most children would think that it was a little inappropriate for the neighbour to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140012	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140014	I think my children would understand that it was perfectly reasonable for the neighbor to decide when the neighbour's son was going to leave us, just as it was also for us to decide when our children would go home if they were in the neighbor's house. So I'm not quite sure I caught that example. But I did not get an answer to my question as to whether Enhedslisten imagines 22 referendums.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140038	In other words, it is in the proposal we made earlier at second reading that we imagine that when sovereignty is given to the European Union in relation to Article 20 of the Constitution, it must either be done by a majority of five sixths in the Folketing, i.e. by means of a majority of five sixths. an overwhelming majority, or a referendum. Yes, that is quite correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140101	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140103	After all, the fantasy is not exactly wrong with the rapporteur, and it may not come as a surprise to many of us, but can the rapporteur nevertheless confirm that it was not correct when his colleague here a little earlier today claimed from his place that divorces are covered by what we are voting on on 3 December?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140128	I find it difficult to confirm this because I did not hear that it was said. Thank you, by the way, for the rose as far as my imagination is concerned. It's relatively well developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140138	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140143	The rapporteur's colleague noted that in future, if we vote 'yes', foreign law houses will influence the decisions that will apply in Denmark. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it realistic that any party here in the Folketing or a majority in the Folketing should be in favour of abruptly abolishing divorces, as we know the arrangement in Denmark, and thus joining, for example, Italian matters, as the rapporteur's own colleague strongly suggested in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140216	No. I would say that as I understood what was said before, it was not a matter of divorces. It was a question of how to treat children in connection with divorces, i.e. children of divorces. These are, of course, matters relating to divorces, and we must of course say that by mutual recognition foreign courts are given jurisdiction, of course, they do so in those cases which are for a reason or a reason transferred to foreign courts. They will then have direct jurisdiction, just as Danish courts will have jurisdiction in cases decided by a Danish court and there will be mutual recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140253	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140255	Thank you. For approx. Thirty years ago I was on the Executive Committee of the People's Movement against the European Community (Christian Juhl I can confirm that!). And I must confess that when I heard Mr. Søren Søndergaard's speech, there came such recognition of the debates from then on. To listen to Mr. Søren Søndergaard was like listening to Ib Nørlund, Bodil Emmanuel, Ib Christensen and those people at the time. Nothing's happened since. It is the same lament about how terrible the European Union is, how terrible the European Union is, how accidents have been rained down on us because of the European Union. There is not one argument about the referendum about what we are going to vote on, but only a lot of outside talk about how horrible the European Union is. I actually think, sir. Søren Søndergaard should report a little more honestly and say that what is his concern is much more that Enhedslisten wants Denmark to leave the EU. Can we not clarify this here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140405	First of all, I would like to thank you for the comparison with the spirit princes, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned, and secondly, I can fully confirm that it is my view and that of the Enhedslisten that we want a Europe without the European Union. We want another European cooperation. I can fully confirm that. This is among other things. That is why we are so active in the Council of Europe where the basis for cooperation is not market forces, but where the basis for cooperation is human rights. We want many more things to be brought into binding cooperation within the Council of Europe and subject to the European Court of Human Rights. So I can fully confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140440	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140442	It is interesting that the European vision of the Left is the Council of Europe, a body which has no influence whatsoever, which does not, of course, have the binding character which is necessary if we are to solve problems and which, in the face of the fight against cross-border crime and other cross-border problems, is not in a position to do anything at all, partly because we do not have the instruments to do so and partly because we do not have the sanctions to do so, partly because we do not have the obligation to do so. In other words, thank you. The Enhedslisten wants a completely non-binding European cooperation, which really means that Denmark can sit and enjoy itself here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140529-2	It was a good end to the puslage country that's having a good time. I just want to say, and I don't know if Mr. Knox... Holger K. Nielsen is informed of this, but otherwise I can inform you that a number of Council of Europe conventions have actually been implemented in Danish legislation and a number of other countries' legislation, and they are therefore the basis for making decisions. I just have to say that. So the fact that it is not binding is not true when it is implemented in Danish legislation. If we in Denmark violate the conventions implemented in Danish law, then it is clear that we are breaking international conventions, and then the Supreme Court, or whoever else, is coming after us, so I just have to say that it is not right. But this has nothing to do with this vote, because we are not voting for or against the European Union; we are voting on how the existing European Union should develop. There's Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen has one model - much more EU, much more supranational cooperation - and we have another model called intergovernmental cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140625	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140626	Thank you. Now, of course, I know the rapporteur as a polemical yet reliable debater, and I personally appreciate that very much. I was a little provoked when Mrs Pernille Skipper just said something about this taking organizations as income for a yes or a no. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can confirm that when we talk about Nesten, Save the Children, or who we have, talking about a 'yes', it is actually seriously a 'yes' to the referendum on 3 December and not just to some random interest that they are taking on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140710	It is not my job to answer on behalf of the organisations mentioned. They're gonna have to do that. Well, I think they should explain it. I know there have been many misunderstandings. The police union, for example, left. through their President, who ran a very violent campaign to vote 'yes'. And then there was a meeting of the National Executive of the Police Union, which decided that there should be absolutely no campaign for a yes. The President could say what he wanted, but there was a large minority against it. I don't know what it's like in Nest or Save the Child. I have read the same statement as Mrs Pernille Skipper, and it may be that other statements have been made. I do not know, but it may be that the questioner can read them now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140746	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140747	Yes, because I have just received a ritzautelegram, which I would like to quote from where the Nest says that a yes on 3 December will make a difference. It does say that Denmark has already implemented the directive and blah blah blah, but that it will make a difference if the Danes vote yes. This is what Secretary General Helle Jarlmose assesses. So it is a question of these organisations really wanting to have a serious debate on the things with the nuances that are. But it remains firm, and it is also true of the Police Association that they warmly recommend the Danes to vote yes on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140817	If the Nest has had a democratic assembly in their organisation ^ if you have one, I do not know and have come to the conclusion that you are calling for a vote in favour of the package as a whole, then I guess you are calling for a vote in favour, and then it is as it should be. But I would just like to draw attention to one thing in this connection, and that is that part of the basis for that may well be that one has taken the view that there is no other option, for example. to join Europol. And that's wrong. For it is the case that both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have clearly confirmed in an answer that there is the possibility of adopting individual acts, including simply opting for Europol. You could have just put that to the vote if you wanted to. Then this discussion would have been avoided. But you wanted the whole package.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140904	No one else has signed up to the brief remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112140929	The great challenges of time in Denmark and Europe are challenges that do not cross national borders. This also applies to cross-border crime. These are challenges that we cannot solve in Denmark alone, and it is very unlikely that we can solve them at European level if we do not choose to stand together. That is why the alternative has a high level of ambition for the European Union, and that is precisely why we would like the Danes to take a stand on the whole legal reservation on 3 December, and that is why we think it is a pity that the political agreement between the conciliation circle of yes-party parties seems to have created a deadlock that unfortunately does not strengthen transparency. We are building our vision of a progressive European Union on active participation and constructive influence on the decisions taken in the European Union. In this way, we can help shape the European Union. Only through the community can we help push for European solutions to cross-border and global challenges. In the alternative, we are willing to take responsibility in the European Union and willing to be part of the solution. It is an important signal to send out to the outside world that we want to participate in mutually binding cooperation, where we share in enjoying, but also in lifting the burden in the community. As far as justice is concerned, it is best in our optics to vote 'yes' on 3 December. In relation to the issue of Danish sovereignty, a 'yes' to the referendum will mean that we surrender sovereignty, and we have done so before. In principle, we would very much like to give up a little self-determination in order to have codecision on cross-border issues. We also owe ourselves an open and honest dialogue on the challenges facing the European Union today, but we also owe it to ourselves and the Danes to talk about what we want with the European Union and European cooperation after 3 December. In other words, we are still saying yes to the overall draft law in the alternative. We must have the courage to want the European Union, but at the same time as we say yes, we are also still saying 'yes' but, although it may disturb the old debate between 'yes' and 'no'. We say: what about the refugees? And we say: what about transparency? Finally, we also say but because we want more ambition and we want vision into the EU debate. It is now these days that we must show the will and the courage to stick to the European vision of cooperation. In the alternative, then, we say a number of things in the vote, but it should not obscure the fact that it is still our unreserved recommendation that we vote 'yes' on 3 December. Because we need the European Union and the European Union needs us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141225	We shall now turn to the brief remarks. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141229	I listened very carefully to the rapporteur's speech, because I have to admit that I was slightly confused by the way the alternative voted earlier today. That is why I have to ask: if it were the alternative that decided, then the alternative imagines that we had a vote on 3 December, where 22 proposals were actually tabled, that is to say, where we should vote 'yes' or 'no' to each of the acts, or how would the alternative actually take the form of the vote on 3 December?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141308	As I just said in my speech, we would like to see the legal reservation put to the vote if you wanted to abolish it in the Danish people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141316	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141318	Well, that's not exactly what I asked. I just asked whether the alternative would like us to have a vote, where we had to decide on all the legal acts, that is, where they were all mentioned, and then we could say 'yes' or 'no' to each of them. For such a vote could, in my view, be very sensible. But I would just like to know how the alternative imagines it, because I do not think there is quite a match between what the alternative says on the platform and what the alternative does when we vote in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141352-2	I am afraid that I do not understand the question, because if the questioner asks what the alternative would like us to vote on 3 December, then it is • and I have said so many times that we would like to see a vote on the overall legal reservation. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141408	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141410	I understand the alternative's sense there's just no room for it on the ballot. After all, the world consists of quite a lot of nuances, and if you are to have a decision on a democratic basis, you have to choose one or not to vote. I also understand the concerns about refugees, transparency and ambition for cooperation, but I do not understand the fact that the alternative is in favour of the EU's supranational way of working, i.e. that it is binding and that there is only one handle on the outside of the door, so that when you enter the negotiations, you cannot go out again? Or is there really a position in the alternative that there could be binding intergovernmental agreements and cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141506	I think it is important that there may be several different forms of cooperation. In this area, the legal issue, we think it is quite reasonable to have supranational cooperation, as there are in these various legal acts, so we can fully agree with that. That is also why we can say yes with the reservations we have, and so I think it is important that we have nuances in the debate. I know you have to say yes or no on 3 December. That is also why we are clearly pointing out what should then be voted down, but it does not mean that I will not try to nuance this debate because things are not black or white. We just have to understand that if you vote no, you will not kill kittens or necessarily introduce the FBI tomorrow if you vote yes. So there are nuances sometimes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141551	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141552	Thank you so much. Well, there are at least two things I'd like to hear if they match. I am a little excited about the new forms of democracy that the alternative is experimenting with and trying to formulate some ideas about. I fully agree that we must try to extend democracy. But first of all, if we vote 'yes' this time, we will cut off the people from having a vote next time to cast sovereignty. Then it is in the Chamber and only in the Chamber and by a general majority, I think it is even in the Committee on European Affairs. That's one thing. The second point is that if we use the supranational to distribute refugees, the European Union could dictate refugees to a country that does not want refugees • poor refugees, I would just say.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141638	I'll see if I can answer everything. Firstly, yes, it is very likely to be in the Committee on European Affairs and, as I have also mentioned several times, when I have been out discussing the European Union and have written about it, we would like to see a look at what it is like to work with EU material here in the Folketing. We can easily change that; it is something we do here in the Folketing with a resolution. In relation to the other, i.e. whether you can be forced to accept refugees, we have to say that when there is the number of refugees who are currently doing so, I am afraid that there cannot be free elections on all shelves, unfortunately. We will then have to enter into binding cooperation, which means that we must push some of the countries with arms crossed; among these I think we could also press Denmark considerably more, so that we actually took responsibility for these challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141724	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141726	Yes, the latter was a bit surprising, because everything suggests that if there is a common distribution key in the EU, Denmark will have fewer and no more. But okay. I want to ask you something. Now we are at the third reading, and if we vote in favour of it, then we have also voted in favour of the background papers, and one of the background papers is an unspeakable agreement between the five parties, which is that as long as only one of the parties opposes it, then we should not opt for a regime within the European Union's asylum and refugee policy. In this sense, is it not true that what the alternative does when you go down and vote 'yes' is to vote 'yes' to the fact that, in a completely unpredictable long future, it will not be possible to do what the alternative wants, because five parties have committed themselves mutually and indescribably to doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141824	Now I have also read this agreement between the five parties very many times, precisely because I do not think it is necessarily the very best agreement on this earth, on the contrary. Well, they've made an agreement to give each other a right of veto on that point, and they can then terminate this agreement in the run-up to an election. But I also saw that more people have moved since this agreement was made in March. So, things are moving, politics is moving, and now they have written a comment into the law that there should be a referendum on it, if anyone gets it in their eyes monstrous idea to participate in binding cooperation, so we must then press for it to come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141900	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141902	It is just because our reading of that agreement is apparently a little different, because I have to say that in the agreement reached between the five yes parties, it is clear that in a large number of areas in most areas it is the case that they can be terminated prior to a forthcoming election, but exactly when it comes to refugee and asylum policy, it is unspeakable, then each party has the right of veto for all eternity. I think the present Prime Minister might say what until the sun burns out or something. But that is what that agreement says. It can't be terminated. That is why, when you go down and vote 'yes', you vote 'yes' to an agreement which means that those parties have given each other a reciprocal right of veto.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112141947	Yes, then we read it differently, and then I think the questioner should ask some of the parties involved in this agreement. Now it has been seen that they have already changed the agreement with the amendment that they voted through on Tuesday, so I wonder if we can push for a change in this, because I believe that this refugee and asylum issue is crucial to solving the challenges that Europe is facing right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142009	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142012	Now maybe I'm a little more new in here than the alternative, so I'm sorry if I ask a stupid question. It sounded to me as if the rapporteur were saying that the legal reservation was wanted to be completely abolished, that is to say that we did not have an electoral system either, but that Denmark simply fully endorsed all legislative acts at once. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142032	Yes, we believe that it would have been best to put the legal reservation to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142036	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142038	Then it's just that I'm again a big question mark. I have seen the alternative as a party that really wants citizens to be involved and to create an open process. How will an open process be created if the entire legal policy and all the decisions taken in the places where the EU has assumed power among those who do not have a legal reservation are carried out in the EU? How will the Danish citizens be involved in this decision-making process? Actually, I don't really understand. I can't quite see it, I have to admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142106	It is important for me to say that this is precisely about cross-border challenges, and we believe that these are best solved by cross-border community and cooperation. And we actually think it is transparent to put a legal reservation to the vote, to discuss what the content of this is. We believe that it is both transparent and democratic to discuss the full legal reservation. So I don't see it going against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142129	No one else has signed up for short remarks. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112142153	We think this referendum is important. It is about different things, above all about Europol, where it is crucial that, when it comes to cross-border crime, there can then be cross-border cooperation between police authorities. That is why the Danish police have so far been happy to be part of Europol, and that is why it will be a problem if we have to leave Europol because it will be supranational. That in itself is a reason for voting 'yes' in the referendum of 3 December. The Noside claims that we can have another agreement, a parallel agreement, if we say no. Nobody knows. It is extremely uncertain. And that is why voting 'no' gives us enormous uncertainty as to whether we can get an agreement that means that we will still be in Europol. Perhaps we can, but it is completely uncertain, and it is also how good it will be and how long it will take to get it negotiated. And there I simply do not understand why it is not wiser to go in through the front door, as we do, if we say yes, instead of taking a detour by the back door without any assurance that we will actually get there. I simply do not understand that. What would be the reason for this? Should these be the other 22 pieces of legislation that we also include in this package, which some people are talking about? Okay, but what's wrong with them? After all, they give rights to European citizens in cross-border activities. Women who get beaten up by their men who get restrained can take it with them. They can't do that today. This gives us the opportunity, for example, to do something about it. owns an asset it can be a house in Italy and you die, the heirs can then use the Danish heir, instead of having to go through a shift system in Italy. Isn't that an advantage? It's not exactly epoch-making, and it may not be a big deal, but it's an advantage, and I find it hard to see the negative in it. There is the bankruptcy regulation, where there will be better opportunities for you to get the money out of companies that are bankrupt, even if they move to other countries. Yes, it is not something that in itself combats social dumping, but it is an advantage to get it in and where is the negative in it? I find it difficult to see it, and that is also why the trade union movement supports this overall. Because they say that it brings some benefits to employees, that more and more money can be made available from companies that cheat on the weight. So it is difficult to see that the 22 acts can justify saying no. Then there is a big argument about what is going to happen afterwards, and that is where it comes in that we have an opt-in system. And it's kind of, you might say, the best of all the worlds we've got here. We can choose for ourselves. We don't smoke out of Europol. We can choose for ourselves in relation to the legal acts that come. This applies to those who are where we have made a choice among the parties that are behind this agreement and in future we can also choose for them. Then there's a big discussion about how it's terrible that it's the Folketing that should do it, and that it's absolutely terrible that in this Parliament elected by the electorate, we take on the task of making these choices. Well, look, that's what we're elected to do. We are elected to make decisions here in the Folketing. After all, we pass laws every day. We are adopting very, very far-reaching laws which, in many cases, go far beyond what we are talking about here. Is there a problem with that? Yes, you have to say no, if you think there is. I'm having a hard time seeing it. It is also a matter of really recognising our representative democracy as a form of government. This is not Switzerland, we are not a country where referendums must be held in time and early on everything. We have chosen a Parliament to take these decisions, and we have been doing so since 1972 when it comes to the European Community and the European Union. It is not the case that, after the 1972 referendum, we have had referendums every time a directive has been put on the table. These were also areas which were not so much on the agenda at the time, for example. Environment. Should we have had referendums on that? There is also the whole question of the social dimension. Should we have had referendums on this every time? No, because we have recognized that within the framework provided by the referendum in 1972 the Folketing could go in and implement the acts that came on the table. Similarly, this is where there is an extension over 1972, where judicial cooperation comes in as something beyond what it was then, and where it is said in a completely similar way that it is the Folketing that goes in and takes these decisions. It's kind of what we're elected for here in the Folketing. So I find it hard to see the mystery of it. So I have voted both 'no' and 'yes' in various referendums. I am, in fact, so clever that I take a stand from time to time and, contrary to what Mr. Søren Søndergaard, I don't say no to everything. I think it is rather headless that we should do so per year. definition says no, just because it comes from the European Union. I think it is equally headless to say yes if it comes from the European Union. It is important, then, that we decide on a case-by-case basis: is that good or bad? In other words, we see the European Union as a battleground, like the Danish Parliament, as the Danish society is, where there are different political forces operating and where there is a fight between the right and the left. And it annoys me to say that the Enhedslisten is completely quitting that fight and you just want to get out of it here, instead of seeing it here as an opportunity, as a framework for how we can also influence developments at European level in areas where it cannot be done exclusively at national level or through the Council of Europe. You know that in the Enhedslisten you can't. There is a need to have the European Union as a framework for influencing European development in various areas and where it is not about the EU being neither good nor bad, is evil or the opposite, but it is about what is being put into it, what the political forces that are in Europe can put into it and that we have to look at European cooperation from that point of view. I think that there is a fundamental difference between the left and the left, which is important to discuss, and that is whether you think that you can only make social policies at national level, in the nation states, or whether you think that international solutions are needed. We mean the last. With an economy that is becoming more international, with problem areas that are becoming more international, with crime becoming more international, we increasingly need international solutions. This seems to me to be important and I simply cannot believe that the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten go hand in hand with a purely nationalist and defensive policy where nothing has happened in the last 35 years. As I said before, when you listen to the Enhedslisten, it is exactly the same as what I heard from the People's Movement at the time. It is a voice from the grave, if I may say so, when one hears it there, and I simply do not think that the left can be aware that they will not get any further in a discussion on the European challenges, and therefore I would very much urge the Enhedslisten to take that discussion. But we are in no doubt: we are voting in favour of this. That's very sensible. That is far from the ideological aspect, which we were afraid of in 1992 when we sat in Nyrup's office and made the exceptions. This is pragmatic, it's practical, it's considered, and it makes sense. We'll say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143049	The first to a brief remark is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143054	Thank you. I really think that one of the things that is unfortunate about the Socialist People's Party is that the party has put itself at the forefront of the confusion campaign in relation to this referendum. We would prefer to have an information campaign, but the SF has chosen to make it a confusion campaign. At second reading, we talked about these posters, these slips, which the Socialist People's Party has hung up. These are posters who say that you vote 'yes' to help refugees here. Now, sir, he's trying. Holger K. Nielsen saw creating doubts about Europol. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen must surely recognise that the option which Denmark has the opportunity to obtain can be used and applied in accordance with the Danish constitution. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143144	I'm sorry, I think that question is completely irrelevant. What I am saying is that, if you say no, you must subsequently have a debate on getting an agreement with Europol, and you do not know whether you can have such a parallel agreement. You don't know how long it takes to get it. You don't know how good it's gonna be. Maybe it's gonna be okay. You don't know that. I doubt it, and at least I think the risk is far too great to run. That is what this is all about: whether we want to take that risk. Why go in the back door when you can take the front door without losing anything about it? That's what I think is the main issue in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143231	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143233	After all, it is the questioner who is asking the questions, and the rapporteur who answers, although I know that it has been deviated from in the past. However, I did not ask the rapporteur about the parallel agreement at all. It was whether the rapporteur would not recognise that the electoral system, which we have the possibility of using under the protocol on Denmark's position, can be applied in accordance with Article 20 of the Constitution and that, in other words, if it becomes a no on 3 December, we can also have a referendum on an electoral system in which we only surrender sovereignty in relation to Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143306	About what's allowed here, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, if else he read the Rules of Procedure, know that these are short remarks. These are not just questions. So you have the right to discuss with each other in short form here. Well, it's just to draw attention to what it's like. Then there is the question of what is allowed and not allowed. There is a major legal discussion between Piri and Lachmann and others in the newspapers at the moment, and I do not think the 'no' side is so good there. But I don't really want to get into it, because I don't think that's the most important thing in this. I think that the most important thing is whether we want to be involved in Europol cooperation, without having any uncertainty as to what we could get if we said no. That is the crucial question, and I do not intend to deal with all the other talk here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143411	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143412	I would like to start by thanking Mr. Holger K. Nielsen for the historical review, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen enriched us with, and I can see that we are already in the process of preparing the SF's electorate for the fact that we are also saying 'yes' to removing the exceptions in terms of military policy and the euro. But it is actually a slightly different question I have to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned that there are plenty of areas here in the Danish Parliament where we take far-reaching decisions, and after Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's view is more far-reaching than some of the decisions that are at issue here. I can share that view, but can Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does not confirm that if a government makes an unusually unwise decision on e.g. To join in a war in Afghanistan, after a subsequent election, in which a new government is elected, can you withdraw the troops home? It is a Danish decision?• whereas, once sovereignty has been surrendered to the EU, it does not matter which Parliament is elected, because then the decision cannot be changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143525	I should just like to say that as far as defence policy is concerned, it is well known that in itself we think it is quite reasonable that we should also be involved in various operations in Africa, which are peacekeeping and so on. With regard to the fact that it is perpetual and that in Denmark you have to withdraw things if it is decided here in the Danish Parliament, it is clear that when you participate in international cooperation and it does not matter where it is, you make some commitments about it, and afterwards you can also be bound by some obligations. This is true in many different areas. This also applies to the Council of Europe, to the United Nations, and to NATO, so it is when you work together internationally. And that, if I may say so, must be part of the policy followed afterwards. That is also why there are limits to how much can be done in terms of refugee policy here in Denmark without conflicting with the conventions that we have signed. That's the way it is. But I just think that what matters here is that it is not the case that, because we say yes to this, we lose any influence on the future. On the one hand, we can say from time to time in relation to acts that come. If there are those who are completely upset, who are completely foolish, we can say no to them. On the one hand, it is not the case that EU discussions are stalling. After all, there is still a process in the European Union where we also need to have influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143717	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143718	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen to confirm that the next step is the exception to the EU's supranational military policy. That is the next reservation on which we must vote and which the SF wants to abolish. So to the question of the scope of the decisions: that is precisely because decisions on the surrender of sovereignty have so great a consequence that the constitution has provided for it to be done either by a broad majority in the Folketing behind or in a referendum. That is what is being put out of effect now. It does not do so in relation to the 22 legislative acts or Europol, because it can be said that the yes side is right in that it is now being discussed. However, in all other areas that we do not know today, there will no longer be a requirement for a referendum, and therefore that decision is so significantly different from any other resolution in the Folketing that we can change at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143816	That is where I find it difficult to see the difference from the 1972 vote. It was quite the same there. When you form part of international cooperation, and especially when it comes to the European Community and the European Union, you surrender sovereignty. But we also have to discuss it, I think, a little more nuanced than that. Let's take this restraining order. It is true that if a German woman gets beaten by her husband and the man gets a restraining order and the German woman comes to Denmark, then we lose sovereignty in being able to deny her the restraining order. We do, it is a loss of sovereignty for us. Isn't that good for the woman? Or vice versa: If a Danish woman goes to Germany and there is a restraining order she can take along, then Germany loses sovereignty in denying her the restraining order. Isn't that nice? That is why I believe that when you cooperate, it is the case that you can lose and you can gain sovereignty, but in relation to specific problems and specific people, the matter may well be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143921	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112143923	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says why you shouldn't go in through the front door. Well, when I was a boy, we always walked in the back door and put the dirty clogs there, and then we went in and had coffee. But here in the European Union, it is the case that the front door has no handle on the inside. In other words, once we have said yes, we cannot get out again. If we go in, that's it. Then we're in there, but if I want to go outside, I like to walk through the back door, where there's a handle on the inside. And that means that I like the intergovernmental agreements best where an agreement can be reached on how things should be and really discuss it. And just as Holger and his wife said no to the Union, one can say no to an agreement if it gets too bad in the course of the negotiations. That is not possible in this case, and I suppose that is also why the Constitution has a section 20 which says that people should be asked when substantial sovereignty is given.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144015	Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144017	Oh, my God, that's what you can do. You can say no. What is the whole point of the electoral system is that you can say no. That argument is very strange, because we are not being pressured to say yes to something that we are opposed to. We can say no to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144046	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144047	Thank you. We can't say no. If we say that we will try to negotiate a solution and sit down at the table, then tie the yes. Well, then, sir. Holger K. Nielsen probably so much try to see if he can find the handle for the door. There isn't. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen can of course say in advance: No, I will not negotiate on that at all. But you don't know what you're gonna get until you're done negotiating. This has certainly been the case for me in negotiations in the past. That is also why I am actually wondering why Mr. Holger K. Nielsen votes against Enhedslisten's proposal for five or six assurances that we will at least have a referendum in such crucial areas. What is the reason why people will not be given the guarantee that they still have the right to vote before a decision is taken, so that it is not just the general majority of the Folketing that decides it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144140-2	As for the first, as Mr. Christian Juhl mentions, we can say no. He knows that. Well, we can say no. Once we have finished the negotiations, we can decide whether we say yes or no. We have that opportunity. Then we will not have any influence on it, but it is probably fair enough that if you go in and say that you want to be involved in negotiating it, you will get through it. I think that in itself is very fair. It is an excellent arrangement that we have had there. We can wait and see, and if you come out with something we're against, then we say no to it. So I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Around the Enhedslisten... well, the President has risen, so I have to wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144226	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144229	Well, I must honestly admit that I am a little confused now about SF's arguments, because I often hear that this is about us seeking influence and that we should sit at the table. But now, sir... Holger K. Nielsen talks about the fact that it is also quite good if we just don't sit at the table and wait until the end and see if we like it. So I'm thinking, what is it, sir? Holger K. Nielsen is gonna want us to have this deal at all? Sir. Holger K. Nielsen says that we are not being pushed into something we are opposed to. But that's not true. If we sit down at the table and seek influence, as the SF always preaches that we should, then catch the table; so is it not right that if you are to seek influence, you can also be pressured into something you are against and that it is, like, the consequence of surrendering sovereignty?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144332	No, but you can assess it on a case-by-case basis in a negotiation. It is reasonable to say that this does not look good; we do not believe it will be good for Denmark; we do not believe that in the end we can say yes to that and that is why we say no in the first place, and then it may be that something very good can be achieved without our participation, and then we can say yes. This assessment can be made without anything wrong. And in other cases they say: we go in and negotiate this and expect to get something out of it, and then we do it. So I do not think there is anything unusual about the fact that, in a negotiating situation, we are assessing: what are the chances of us getting through with this, and will we then take part in the negotiations or not? I think Enhedslisten does that quite often. At least that's my impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144429	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144430	But one of the good things about political negotiations is that a debate means that no one is forced to do anything and that the parties can go their separate ways if they cannot agree. And the EU has a mechanism that means that if you want to sit at the table and negotiate, you cannot stand up again. So when the SF preaches that we must be involved in gaining influence, the SF also accepts that we can be pressured into things that we do not like and which we are opposed to • completely like the SF accepts that when we surrender self-determination, sovereignty, to the European Union, it is final; then we cannot take it back, even if the European Court of Justice interprets it in a way that we are opposed to, that we do not like and that we were promised differently. So, of course, this means that we can be pushed into a lot, we are against, and this has happened several times.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144527	Well, it's not true that we can't get up. We can do that any time. After all, this is a negotiating situation, and there you can stand up and perhaps you can come back and you can walk away. What it is all about is whether you are bound by the final result... that's what we're talking about. It is not, of course, the negotiating situation itself. It is whether you are bound by the final result. That is what we have to assess, and I think that is actually fair enough. And I really would also like Enhedslisten to have the approach to it himself, that when you negotiate all the way through and you have got your stuff through, you also stand by it in the end. But all right, that's how I look at mr. Søren Søndergaard. I think that is a fair negotiating style in itself, and what we have got here is, in my view, very, very fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144624	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144627	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to try to go back to what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned that as politicians we are used to making decisions and Lord God, it was said that we do so every day in the Danish Parliament, so it is and that the citizens can therefore also be absolutely sure that it is possible to do so, even if it is a yes on 3 December. And I kind of agree with that. Of course, we can still have faith in the decisions, but I think that the process also needs to be addressed. And there was Mr. Holger K. Nielsen speaks of a historical review of 35 years. However, I do not think that we need to go back longer than 29 years, namely to the time when we had a vote on the Single Market Treaty, when a majority in the Folketing recommended a 'no' vote. We did not want Denmark to accede to this Treaty. But there it was that the citizens like the Danish people chose to say: well, we actually want to accede to the Single Market Treaty. Is it not a good example of the fact that it is actually important that we have referendums and that, therefore, it is unfavorable for our democracy that we are now cutting ourselves off from referendums on sovereignty in a large number of areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144742	I think sir... Hans Kristian Skibby confuses things, for in 1986 it was not a 20-vote; it was an indicative vote that Schlüter held, precisely because the majority of the Danish Parliament disagreed with him. And there's nothing wrong with the Folketing being able to hold the kind of votes you can do as much as you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144804	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144805	Well, I am well aware of that, that is, there is a difference between an indicative vote and a vote in which the result must be fully followed. However, what was the fundamental question I put to the rapporteur was, if not the rapporteur can see that it is problematic that if you vote yes on 3 December, there are a large number of places where we dedicate ourselves to holding referendums in Denmark, which are valid and where politicians have to comply with the opinion of the citizens, the majority. Then it is true that the second vote was of course not binding in the same way, but it illustrates that sometimes we are not right here in the Folketing; sometimes it is actually the citizens outside who are right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144846	Yes, that is true, but that is also why the Constitution contains provisions for referendums; provisions for a certain number of members of parliament to require that a law be sent to a referendum. It was used in connection with the land laws I think it was in 1963 or something. It's often used reactionary, by the way. But then there is that possibility, which was taken into account when the Danish constitution was drawn up in 1953. Do you need more of that? I don't know, I mean. I myself am indicted by the idea that, for example, if you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you do not have the right to vote in local elections. I also believe that the alternative has worked on this. However, I think that the Constitution has some excellent provisions on referendums, and they can of course be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144937	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112144940	Thank you. Earlier, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that it was quite logical that people had not been asked in a referendum when the EU began to interfere in labour market policy and welfare policy at home, because these were areas that had been transferred to the EU in previous votes and in the Treaties. It is honest talk on the part of the SF that it was quite logical not to ask the people when the EU, like it, took much more power in some areas than they had gone and discussed and thought they would do. Then I just want to hear from the SF whether this is also the reason why the Enhedslisten's amendments were rejected in the votes earlier, that is to say that, frankly, the SF only has the view that the situation should arise that the abolition of the reservation of law leads to the EU beginning to interfere in areas of legal policy, which will have consequences in relation to a reduction in the right to strike or a deterioration in relation to the rights enjoyed by Danes today, is simply not to ask the people because power has been given to the European Union in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145046	I don't know if I used the term logically. That is possible, and we shall have to look into it. But what I meant was that it has at least been customary on page 1972. And it has also been the interpretation of Article 20 of the Constitution since 1972 that sovereignty is given in the referendum, and within that framework a majority of the Folketing can then implement the directives that lie there. And there is a quite parallel situation here, where we have a referendum in the legal field, which gives up sovereignty, and then the Folketing can subsequently operate within that framework. I do not think there is anything democratic wrong with that, and there is certainly nothing unconstitutional about it. With regard to the Enhedslisten's amendments, I would say that it was so irresponsible that it could not be taken seriously. These were all sorts of hypothetical situations and this is not a way to make serious parliamentary policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145145	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145146	Thank you. Well, it's a good thing there's some honest talk from Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen's side. In other words, it is customary in EU law to legislate in more and more areas, and there is no tradition in Denmark, if the EU takes power in new areas where sovereignty has already been given, to ask the people in referendums. That is precisely why the Enhedslisten tabled these amendments. Because we were afraid that something would happen in the past, such as the European Court of Justice giving a ruling on the labour market and restricting the trade union movement's right to conflict in order to demand equal rights for equal work for foreign colleagues. So there's just one difference between Enhedslistens and SF's approach, and we've got confirmation here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145235	Yeah, I guess there's a difference. I dare to suggest this, but in my opinion it goes on a number of other things. But the thing about new areas is where there is somebody, such a rather subtle legal discussion about what it is. The Patent Court was a new area and therefore there should be a referendum on it. And this is also a new area. But there it has been the interpretation, at least when it, for example, reaches. It is about the environment that it has a part to do with the functioning of the internal market and is a logical continuation of what we voted on in 1972. I think that is a correct interpretation, and that is certainly what has been used since then. There's nothing mysterious about it any more than there's something mysterious about us using the same approach here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145320	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145323	Thank you. SF's posters around the city with this more we and less them and us and less me, me and me have some very sympathetic messages, but I think it's also some messages that simplify a very complex problem and talk a little down to the Danes. No one is against cooperation, but what this is all about is getting to a table, and the result that comes on that table must be accepted, even though there is a desire among the Danes not to participate or to be subject to these rules. And at that table are also countries that we can see right now in Europe on the road to authoritarian development, for example. Hungary just to mention one of the worst cases where freedom of the press, ordinary democratic rights and other things are beginning to be attacked. So these are the people with whom we must sit and agree on fundamental legal relations, that is, the relationship between the state and the citizen. And if a majority in these countries agree on something that restricts citizens' freedoms, we must accept it. My question is: with SF's historical legacy in this area, is there not the slightest concern about the consequences of a yes in this referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145439	You are a bad politician and a bad citizen if you go into a new development with complete carelessness, so of course we do not. And, of course, we also have to deal with what may be of different concerns about this. Yeah, I get that. I just think the benefits are far, far greater. I think there is a tendency, like seeing a number of European countries as such very backward and very primitive, countries that we must not infect with, and that it would be terrible if our pure Danish society were to be soiled by those primitive, backward countries. I do not think this is a real premise for international cooperation, also because there is an opportunity for them to think that there is now an opportunity for this liberal Denmark to influence us in a particular direction. That's where the coin has several sides. So I am in favour of Europe having these cooperation forums where we can discuss common problems with the difficulties and challenges it presents because we are as different as we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145556	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145557	Co-operation forums, discussion clubs, well, that's great. It is just a very long way from saying that we are now taking decisions that relate to something as central as the relationship between the state and the citizen, that is to say, the state's capacity for coercive action against the citizen. That is what lies in the area of justice; it is the most central of all policy areas and says that here we must hand over the power to a table where we have to accept the result. And I do not think that the countries are lagging behind, I just think that we have some countries, such as the United States. has a very strong Catholic tradition and which looks at things quite differently, for example. questions of sexuality, on issues of gender and on a wide range of other issues. And I am concerned about what this could have in the long term for our ability to adapt, as the Danes wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145648	Yeah, but you can be worried about all sorts of things. Well, if you work with others, get in touch with others, then there's a risk of being affected. However, I believe that our culture is so strong that I am not worried that our divorce law will be amended because, after all, we have said no to what has to do with divorces in the legal acts that lie there. I really think there's some kind of anxiety, a foreign anxiety with the Enhedslisten in this, where you're nervous about being dirty and influenced by some Catholic traditions. Of course there are differences, but in cooperation it is all about entering into different starting points and different cultures and getting some common solutions out of it. I think that is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145741	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145743	Thank you. It is with a little mixed emotion that I take the floor. I remember young Holger K. Nielsen back in the 1990s, he was one of the reasons why I voted 'no' in 1992 and 1993. It was then that was the wonderful slogan: 'Holger and the wife say no to the Union'. Since then, a great deal has happened and I wonder what has happened. With this proposal, we hand over power to the Danish Parliament in relation to independence. Young Holger K. Nielsen would never have done that. So now that I am finally in Parliament and have the opportunity to ask Holger K. Nielsen that question, I would like to ask: what has happened? How can Holger K. Nielsen give power to the Danish Parliament, when it is actually something that the people have to decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145839	Oh, no, I also know that Morten Messerschmidt goes around saying that I am the reason he voted no at the time. I didn't do what I did! What do I have on my conscience with so many from the Danish People's Party, I've got to think politics • uh! What happened? Well, at least the world has changed, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen. The European Union has grown; we are 28 countries today. Globalisation has fallen upon us and crime has become more international. In other words, we are faced with quite different fundamental supranational international challenges compared with 1992. The most important thing is that the European Union is something completely different from what we feared at the time. I am still away from a United States of Europe. I do not think we should have a European federation. I still believe that it is the nation states that are the foundation of European cooperation and that we must respect cultural and national differences. However, I believe that we must have as strong cooperation as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145952	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112145954	Yes, but the constitution's provision for a certain degree of autonomy has not changed, it is still the same. What we are doing with this proposal is handing over to an indefinite extent, which is contrary to the Constitution. The old Holger K. Nielsen, i.e. the young Holger K. Nielsen would have called it unconstitutional, while the new Holger K. Nielsen, who is the old Holger K. Nielsen, shakes his head and says no. Well, you have to explain that to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112150029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112150031	Well, I have to say that the thing about dragging the Constitution into this has always been very, very skeptical of me. That is also one of the reasons why I had a lot of arguments when I was sitting with Ib Nørlund and the old Stalinists in the People's Movement against the EEC, because there it was always something about the Constitution. I think we should talk politics instead. We are within the framework of the Constitution here. The Constitution is important, and I fully agree with that, but there is no doubt whatsoever that we remain within the framework of the Constitution with what we are doing here. Let us take it as a premise and then discuss politics: how do we solve the cross-border problems that need to be solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112150114	Thank you. Then there is no more on the list now, and we thank the rapporteurs. Then we will be through the rapporteur's line and then we will give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112150127	Thank you for a lively debate. There is a word game in other contexts that says that you do not forget the first time. This may not be done in many contexts either, and it seems that a great many people have not forgotten either the first time they have voted on a reservation of law or voted in an EU election. I agree with you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen also has a lot on his conscience in this, but to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's praise is to be said that unlike others Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is not stuck in a time that has passed, is not stuck in a world that no longer exists. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen has shown that he can assess in specific cases what is right for the Danes to create security, to create security. It annoys me that there are others who are so stuck in their first time. You can remember the first time, but you also have to go beyond the first time. It is not the case that one should try to believe that one should relive and stick to what was the first time. Actually, I had a first time here this morning. This was not the kind of first time, no, no, for the first time this morning I had the pleasure of visiting the Red International and the place they have here in Copenhagen for trade women who have been brought to Denmark, forced into prostitution, forced to carry out some of the most vile things one can imagine, namely to make their bodies available to others against their own will, either because of threats of violence, because of debts they have built up, or because of threats to their families in their home country. I spoke quite a lot with the Danish employees who are at Reden International, and they said honestly that they have not got involved in all aspects of the 22 legislative acts, but they said quite clearly that if we would do something good to strengthen the fight against trafficking in women in Europe, if we would do something good to strengthen their ability to help trade women back, Denmark must in their optics join the Women's Trade Directive. They told a very specific story about one of the women who had been brought to Denmark from another European country and forced into prostitution with the threat that her six-year-old son, who had stayed at home, would face something if she did not adjust. When they got in touch with her, they tried to get the boy down there, but the local police didn't succeed. It only succeeded when cooperation between the Danish police and the police of the home country through Europol gained the right skills to save the six-year-old son from the claws of the backers who held her in captivity here in Denmark, and in this way she got free from her life as a traded woman. That is why we must be part of Europol. That is why we must not put our participation in Europol at risk, as the 'no' side will. Because the point is that when we have a vote today, it is because Europe is moving and Europol is moving. Europol will move next year, so that if we do not have an opt-in system, we will go outside and have to tempt a life where there is no certainty as to what link Denmark can have with Europol. That was said by Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth that those who had warned against a "no" were such ones who did not know what the reality was in Denmark and that it was law experts who did not know it. I would like to say that one of those who knows our relationship with the EU allerallers best, one who is most familiar with the terms of the Lisbon Treaty that we are working on from now on is Per Lachmann, who was a negotiator in this area, and he says quite clearly to the politician earlier in October that the plan of the 'no' parties is not possible. This is the beginning of the article that Per Lachmann is reviewing, that is to say, what kind of problem that is. Per Lachmann says quite clearly that the arguments of the 'no' side do not stand up. The model that has been put on the table is uncertain, and if you want to stay in Europol, the road is five, that you participate fully and fully in an electoral system. The fact is that Per Lachmann was the one who negotiated an election scheme home on behalf of Denmark. What does that mean? This means that now, as the government proposes, when we transform a reservation of law into an opt-in system, Denmark will have the freedom to decide for itself where we want to be and where we do not want to be on board the whole We have said clearly how we want to use the freedom we have pointed out to Europol, we have pointed out 22 very specific acts in which we want to participate, and that is what we say yes to. Then we have said that there are some legal acts that we do not want to say yes to, and then there is the possibility that there may be new legal acts to which, if necessary, we can choose to say yes or no. We will even have the opportunity to choose whether we want to join the negotiations from the start on an equal footing with the other countries, but then we will also be obliged, on an equal footing with the other countries, to take part in the legislative process once it has been negotiated, or whether we choose to say that we wait and see what the others agree on, and then we will decide whether we want to join or not. In the Danish Parliament we get the freedom to choose for ourselves what we want it to be. I think that is excellent, because in Denmark we have a representative democracy built up by the constitution, built up by the popular rule that has been in force here for a long time, and this means that it is the Folketing that decides on a large number of areas for how Danish society should develop. And I think we can and must do that in a long area of justice. There will be some areas that I would like to say no to, because there are some areas in which I do not think we should work together. We have said quite clearly from the Left, from the Social Democratic Party and from the Conservative People's Party that we do not want us to be part of asylum and immigration policy. We have even said this so clearly that Mr. Søren Søndergaard today has almost mocked other parties for saying it so clearly and making it so clear that it is not part of the vote. It has warmed my heart to hear Mr. Søren Søndergaard's warm defence of the fact that asylum and immigration policy have now been added to such a side that it will require a renewed referendum in Denmark if at some point anyone would want us to take part in it. Actually, I think I'm gonna take the printout of Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard's flaming talk with and use as a defence letter every time I hear from others in Danish politics that I am not strong enough at all, and that we are still in danger of becoming part of the asylum and immigration policy, for then I have Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard's words, in addition to my own and the five parties that say yes. It's always nice to have friends with, and in this case I think Mr. Søren Søndergaard for being a friend and ally when he confirms that we are not voting on asylum and immigration policy. It seems like Mr. Knox... Søren Søndergaard regretted it, but I welcome it. That doesn't change the fact that Mr. Søren Søndergaard's arguments were quite strong. On the other hand, Mr. Søren Søndergaard in deep water when he started talking about the right to strike, because the right to strike is not part of justice and home affairs. The strike is not at all one of the things we will be voting on on 3 December. That's what Mr. Søren Søndergaard goes on, are examples of something that lies in the area of the internal market, and was not, moreover, a question of the right to strike, it was a question of blockade and illegal blockade. And Mr. Søren Søndergaard said at one point that the Court of Justice had said "fuck and jump" to Denmark. I'd like to know where the verdict stands. Now I have spent the wait to sit and read it through, and I hope that Mr. Søren Søndergaard can refer me to where the judgment says "Rend and jump to Denmark," because I couldn't find it. So, when the questions come, I would like to see where the text says "fuck off." In relation to some of the other issues that have been raised, we on the part of the government are very pleased that it is the broad support that has been there. We are glad that so many have chosen to say yes. I am sorry that we are not looking at the same thing with the alternative on how to deal with the issue of the system of opt-ins and other things, and I wonder why those parties who are concerned about whether we who have signed up for the agreement on legislative acts can manage it well enough have not signed up in advance and have become conciliation parties, thereby gaining the same veto rights as the conciliation parties now have. All in all, it has been a debate similar to the debate at second reading and the debate at first reading, but the debate has also shown something new. Among other things: someone referred to the fact that there have been no parallel agreements since the Treaty of Lisbon. That is correct, because there is not. Because since the Lisbon Treaty it has been proposed that there is no parallel agreement system, there is an opt-in system. Denmark has been allowed to choose for itself what we want to be in or not to be in, and thus there is no need for a parallel agreement. I think it is my personal assessment that it will be extremely difficult to convince the other countries that it should be so attractive for them to start making a lot of parallel agreements in those areas that some would then want us to join if we first say no to having to choose for ourselves what we want to be in. I can see that for other countries outside the European Union, when they have tried to make parallel agreements with the European Union, it has taken a long time, and I can see from the attempts we have made ourselves with a low parallel agreement that it has not always been successful, and I can see that with the way the Treaty of Lisbon has now been set up, it is no less complicated to have to go down that road. Of course, I cannot guarantee in advance that, after difficult negotiations, it could not succeed in obtaining a parallel agreement, it is just too uncertain in terms of securing the police the best possible tools to ensure the safety of the Danes. That is why I am pleased that there is a large majority in the Danish Parliament who will shortly vote in favour of L 29 and thus adopt the bill. It will not be enough for the five-sixth majority that will have to be, because it is a question of the surrender of sovereignty, so it would take five-sixths for the Folketing to make it on its own. That is why we are moving on to a referendum on 3 December, and I hope that the Danes will vote for a safer Denmark, make it easier for citizens and for businesses, easier for employees and those who vote yes on 3 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151343	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151348	As far as I remember, 12 years ago the Foreign Minister wrote a book called 'Hurra of globalisation' and, as far as I remember, they were relatively critical because it was thought that the Foreign Minister was too critical of globalisation, but that explains why the Foreign Minister is today recommending a 'yes' vote. I just have to say to the Foreign Minister that when the Foreign Minister says that we are putting our membership of Europol at risk, that is not true. The fact is that we ourselves choose how much of the opt-in system we will use if necessary. And then I have to ask the Foreign Minister: does the Foreign Minister really believe that it would have been contrary to EU law if the majority of the Folketing had now chosen a model involving a referendum held on 3 December, only on Europol and possible accession to the 22 acts, but without the power to surrender sovereignty?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151453	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is wrong. Those weren't bad reviews, they were bad sales figures. I'm actually very fond of the reviews, they were pretty commendable. The sales figures would have been better. Sorry, that's how it goes. It is, of course, the case that we have chosen for ourselves how we choose to have that referendum and how we choose to use the electoral system. That's right. The difference is probably just that the Left has always supported Europol and voted in favour of where the Danish People's Party voted against us being part of Europol in 2009. That is why we have a greater look at how important it is to be part of Europol. We have never had the scepticism of the Danish People's Party back in 2009. We want to be fully involved. We also want to be part of the 22 pieces of legislation we have pointed out, because they help to make everyday life safer for the Danes; they help to ensure that we work more closely together, for example. on combating trafficking in human beings, e.g. on combating child pornography. And that is why there are a great many who, together with the Left and the government and a broad majority in the Folketing, say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151603	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151604	In this way, the Foreign Minister almost got the answer to my follow-up question, which I am going to ask anyway. For let us now say that we will have a 'no' on 3 December and that, for some reason or other, we should not be able to have a parallel agreement. Is it not, in that case, an opportunity to hold a referendum which means that we apply the electoral system and only surrender sovereignty to Europol and, possibly, the 22 legislative acts, but fail to give the Folketing, by the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs, the opportunity to give up sovereignty in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151641	I know that the Danish People's Party has put forward a proposal in this Chamber to make a parallel agreement instead of being a member of Europol. It's just not good enough. Listen to what the Danish police say. You say quite clearly that it will not be satisfactory to have a parallel agreement. We need to be fully involved. That Dansk Folkeparti does not want it, but has proposed a parallel agreement, Dansk Folkeparti may explain itself. If we are to be there and not risk being sent outside the door because Europol is moving, then we need a yes on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151713	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151715	It is quite clear that the Minister is stuck in EU fanaticism, and I really do not think that the level is particularly flashy with the sexual hints we have got here on the high ground. It doesn't suit a minister. But my question is as to what this vote is really about. It is, of course, about the transfer of powers from the people to the Folketing. It is not about ensuring that we do not want to be involved in ensuring that women are traded or in police cooperation. It's about who's gonna decide. And in the Danish People's Party, it is our opinion that it is the people who must decide when sovereignty is to be given, instead of forever surrendering it to a Parliament. In fact, I would like to know whether the Minister's position on representative democracy can be summed up in such a brief way: we only know, and the people, it just has to go away.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151827	I haven't said anything about sexual allusions. I have said something about the first time, and if this leads the rapporteur to have sexual thoughts, it is in the rapporteur's mind that this sort of thing arises. I have just said something about the first time, and what this brings to mind by the rapporteur is at the rapporteur's own expense. Then I have also said that we must be involved because it is best to be fully involved in this area. I just want us to ask the Danes, and I have no objection to us asking the Danes. This is what we are doing on 3 December, when we have a referendum exactly according to the Constitution: when sovereignty is given, it is either with a five-six majority in here, which unfortunately we cannot have, or in a referendum held on 3 December. We ask the Danes precisely whether we should not be involved. I do not agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that we should simply oppose the 22 acts. I believe that if you want to get in and protect women better, listen to the Red International and be part of the Trafficking Directive. If you want to protect children, listen to the Children's Fund, which says that yes is the right thing to do when you vote on 3 December. There are a large number of organisations with knowledge in this area and they say that we are protecting children and acting women better with a yes. Listen to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151939	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112151940	Yes, but let the people decide such things instead of deciding forever and ever by a Parliament. I believe in the Minister when he says that, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. will not surrender the right of asylum. I believe in the Minister. But in ten years' time there will be a completely different leader for the Left, and there will be quite different leaders for the other four parties involved in this agreement, and they will then have to deal with the question of independence, which it really belongs to the people to decide. And that is where I do not really think that the Minister complies with the provisions of the Constitution on specific scope, as the late Professor Zahle said in the 1992 vote and on which Professor Pagh has written a note. I would just like to ask the Minister again, as others have done, to explain this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152039-2	I know that the Danish People's Party is very pleased with the note they bought from Peter Pagh, and I respect the fact that you trust the people you have hired. But I think we should look at what the facts are here. The fact is that we have a referendum on 3 December because there is a surrender of sovereignty. We are therefore asking, as a matter of principle, whether Denmark should agree to an opt-in scheme instead of a reservation of law. And that means that it is here in the Folketing of the representatives elected by the Danes that the decision as to whether or not we should be in it lies. At the moment, if we want to be involved, the other countries can decide whether or not we are allowed to do so. If we say yes, power will be transferred to the Danish Parliament, and then it is the Danes who decide whether they want to participate or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152128	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152132	I must admit that I am a little surprised now, because it sounds to me completely as if the Minister is denying the answer given to the Folketing, the answer to Question 21, which makes it absolutely clear that it is in accordance with EU law and that it is in accordance with the Constitution to make a referendum in Denmark alone on Europol. So I have to ask the Minister to confirm that it is completely in line with the Constitution and that it is entirely in accordance with EU law to make a referendum on Europol alone, and that if you want to join Europol, then you can do so by making such a referendum on Europol alone. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152219	I have said in an earlier answer that Denmark itself chooses how to organise its referendum in that area. That answer is the same as the answer that I can give to Mr Van der Klaauw. Søren Søndergaard. We have chosen to make a vote that concerns both Europol and 22 legal acts, because the 22 acts help us to have greater security for the Danes, that we have an easier everyday life for businesses, and that we have an easier walk on the ground in relation to citizens who have money in their pockets across Europe. We therefore recommend that we vote in favour both of Europol and of the 22 legislative acts of 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152257	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152259	I find it boring that the Minister continues to make a clear statement. And there is no other option than that we must have it back in committee in order to clarify this question if it is the case that the Minister cannot say quite clearly that the Minister is behind the answer given to Question 21, an answer which clearly states that it is possible to join Europol in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with EU law by means of a referendum in Denmark at a given time when the Europol regulation has been negotiated. There is a need for a perfectly clear answer, Minister, otherwise we must ask for the matter to be returned to committee so that we can clarify it, because we cannot have the answers we have received in committee ignored.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152346	I think, sir. Søren Søndergaard must not make himself stupider than he is. Because when it is said that you can organise the referendum as you like, you can also organise a referendum as in the answer to Question 21. I answered that clearly to a previous questioner, and I answered that very clearly to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, and now I repeat the answer: We choose that ourselves, exactly as described in the answer to question 21.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152413	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152417	Thank you. Now we are in the special situation that the first time can be the last. It is not very often that it happens in reality, but it does happen. I would say that before a 'yes' vote you have the right to a referendum on legal issues, and you can do so if you can make five sixths of a majority in the Folketing if you give substantial sovereignty to the European Union. After a yes, it is only a majority of the Committee on European Affairs or the Folketing that can decide to give up sovereignty, and this can be the last time that a referendum on legal matters can be held in the legal field. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152509	I was wondering when the question came, and it came here in the end, so there was something to answer. It is the case that, with the bill here, we choose to transform the reservation of law into an opt-in system. Then we can choose. This means that if, at the time we vote 'yes' or 'no', it becomes 'yes', we have decided to move from the legal reservation we have to an opt-in system. And that means that there is a surrender of sovereignty. That is why we need a referendum. There the Danes are asked. Then there are a large number of areas in which we have already given up sovereignty. Now the question of the electoral system comes up as an additional area in which sovereignty is also given, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152552	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152554	Then it was well understood that this was the last time, if we vote yes this time, that we will vote for a referendum on the legal issues. I do not understand why the Minister would not then help to secure and reassure the people in the quite crucial areas to which the seven amendments tabled this morning by the Enhedslisten refer. What is the reason why we do not want to ask the people in such important areas as the things that were mentioned: equality between parents, divorce, limitation of citizens' guarantees of legal certainty, transfer of competence from Danish courts, limitation of the right to strike, deterioration of children's rights under Danish law, creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office? In these areas, the Left does not want to ask the people, and there you do not mean the people, when you say 'we', which you mean the Folketing. Can't you say that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152653	We have said quite clearly that there will also be a referendum if it is the case that, at any given time, the asylum and immigration policy should become part of joint cooperation. We have not just said that; we have also written it in the comments. When Mr. Christian Juhl then again brings forward the issue of the right to strike, I would say that it is not at all part of what we are voting on, because it is not part of justice and home affairs. That is why Mr. Christian Juhl is trying to create a picture of something that does not fit, a picture that what we are voting on here is about much, much more than what is actually the case. And that is what I am holding up in my accusation against the Enhedslisten, that is to say, instead of discussing the content, we are putting up some straws that are then tried to shoot down by saying that it cannot be right that these are the sort of things that we need to work together on. No, it's not the right to strike we're voting on. We are voting on whether we should be involved in a wide range of areas where we will have better opportunities to protect Danes from crimes, where we will have better opportunities for companies to recover cross-border claims, so that we can act more freely together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152755	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152757	Thank you. I understand from the Foreign Minister that we do not need to worry about the issue of refugees and asylum, because a political agreement has been reached on this. May I remind the Minister of another political agreement made by the Left. It was in the spring when it was promised to the Danes that if a majority of the Left, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance and Danish People's Party were to emerge, the principles of social security would be reinstated in Denmark. But in relation to that promise, the government has stuck its tail between its legs and has run in exactly the opposite direction. Can the Minister understand that we here in the Folketing and out in the population may see the credibility of the government on the EU issue as slightly shattered?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152843	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152844	The government is working on exactly the same thing we said during the election campaign, namely to have a right of return in Denmark. And it is not only on the child benefit issue, but also in relation to a large number of other welfare benefits. In fact, we believe that the issue of welfare services is something that the countries themselves should take more care of than it is something that the European Union should take care of. Of course, it must be ensured that we do not discriminate according to nationality, but the question of how to allocate is something that we must decide on a national basis in relation to the citizens who are with us. And so it is the Government's wish that a right be introduced for a period of earning in terms of child benefit. That's what we said before the election, and we're still saying that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152925	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112152928	I can then inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this was certainly not what the Minister for Taxation said to us when we had him in consultation with the Committee on Taxation. Then there was a clear admonition that this was certainly not possible, because it had been told in the European Union. And directly asked whether the government would try it at the European Court of Justice, it was said that it was certainly not intended to do so. So my fear is just if there is some official sitting in the EU system saying: No, it no longer goes that Denmark is not part of the refugee and asylum policy. We think they should be. There, I fear, there is as little willingness to fight in the government as there was in the matter of recovery principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153014	I'm really sorry, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen was not present earlier that day under Mr. Søren Søndergaard's warm defence of how strong a bulwark the political agreement is against asylum and immigration policy becoming part of what we are voting on. For Mr. Søren Søndergaard was such an ardent advocate that asylum and immigration policy is now packed away in a corner where it is almost impossible to touch it that in other contexts I intend to use Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard's speech as a reference to show how strongly a bulwark has been set against the fact that what we are voting on on 3 December is not asylum and immigration policy. And if a common solution is to be found at some point, if anyone so wishes, it will require the Danes to be asked again in a new referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153057	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153100	Thank you. I was just wondering whether I should take the floor here, but I felt I had to make a brief comment on the Minister's speech anyway. I would, of course, like to thank you for the invitation we received earlier this autumn about taking part in this conciliation and thus also having a right of veto in this agreement, but I just have to say to the Minister that an agreement is not going to be any better if we are in it, even if we are good. And, of course, when we criticized this agreement, we could not see ourselves as part of the agreement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153131	I have full respect for this, and I fully respect the approach of the alternative to both the debate and the legislative proposal, namely that you want to have a yes on 3 December, but that you do not like the agreement that lies behind, about the options and perhaps more about the opt-outs. And that is why it was natural for us to invite the alternative inside if you wanted to join and thus have a right of veto. However, we fully respect the alternative approach in this and welcome the fact that we recommend the same to the Danes on 3 December, namely that we vote in favour of the referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153208	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153213	Thank you. I think it was a very important exchange that the Minister had with Mr. Søren Søndergaard here earlier, because that was when it was established that I heard it in any case that yes, we can just vote on Europol. This is something we choose for ourselves, as the Minister put it. Can the Minister not confirm that if you are now an ordinary Dane and want Denmark to stay in Europol, but you do not want us to surrender sovereignty in a number of other areas, including a number of areas that you do not really know what is yet, then the best thing to do is to go down and vote no? For the parties that are calling for a 'no' vote have promised that then we will propose to the vote, and I hope so in the situation that the 'yes' parties, even though they may be upset about the 'no' vote, will help to issue a referendum only on Europol. Can the Minister not just confirm that it is true that if that is what you want, that is to say if you only want Europol, we do not need to talk about parallel agreements and everything else that the Minister tried to do when the same question was asked from over here, because then you can follow that model?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153323	I had actually thought that the newspaper Politiken was more read in Enhedslisten's circles than it is. But then I shall refer to the newspaper Politiken on 18 October, where Per Lachman, the top lawyer responsible for the electoral system we have introduced, says that after the forthcoming referendum, the plan of the 'no' parties cannot be achieved. That's the assessment. I recognize that. He is not the European Court of Justice or has the right to make a final decision, but he is, after all, the man who has been completely in prison and has negotiated the electoral system. He says that the plan of the 'no' parties is not possible. I agree with him on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153401	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153404	Now I am really confused at a higher level, because we have just been confirmed that there is an answer from the Ministry which clearly says that this can be done according to the Constitution and according to all rules. The Minister has just confirmed this to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. And now the minister says no, an expert says you can't. Well, that's where I'm gonna start to agree. Søren Søndergaard in that we must then have this discussion back to committee. Surely it cannot be that we have a lack of clarity as to whether the argument, which is, after all, the main argument of the 'no' side in the most central discussion here, namely about Europol, is unanswered on the part of the Minister. That's not gonna work, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153445	I do not think it is unanswered. We have an answer to Question 21, which says that we in Denmark can choose how we choose to organise and interpret our referendum. We can do that. We could choose an interpretation in which we had taken Europol and 10 acts, Europol and 12 acts, Europol and 22 acts, or only Europol. We could choose that for ourselves. That's how I read the answer to question 21. And I stand by that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153514	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153518	I would like to admit that when you have this kind of debate in connection with a referendum, there is nothing to say that many voters may also be slightly confused about what we are actually voting on and what they are actually talking about in the Folketing. And it is quite telling that the Foreign Minister constantly mentions in his replies the 22 acts and Europol and constantly forgets the second part of the vote, namely that of the total surrender of sovereignty in the legal field. Then you can look at what one of the parties involved in this agreement that we should have this referendum has done, namely the Radical Left. After all, they were out on the day of the agreement and say, among other things, on. Twitter, that we celebrate here the abolition of the Danish legal reservation with champagne. Then there were pictures of the entire parliamentary group, where they sit and drink champagne and celebrate the abolition of the legal reservation. Now, in this election campaign so far, we have heard that this is not about abolishing the reservation of law. Can the Foreign Minister not then see that it seems strange that even the parties to the agreement and their own parliamentary groups do not know what they are actually voting on?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153624	I think that anyone who is in doubt should simply read the title of the draft law, namely a legislative proposal to transform the reservation of the law into an opt-in system. That is what we will be voting on in the Chamber in a moment, and that is what the Danes will be voting on on 3 December. I actually think the Danes are fully aware of this, perhaps with the exception of Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153645	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153647	I certainly do not belong to the radical parliamentary group, and it is they who are sending out tweets where they say they are celebrating the abolition of the reservation of law. That is what they say the day after they have reached an agreement in which, among other things, they say. will have a referendum on the legal reservation. So we are now beginning to make the back crawl from the whole group of parties to the agreement that this is not about abolishing the reservation of law, no, it is a change and so on. But that does not change the basics, and that is that, in addition to the 22 acts, it is a surrender of sovereignty. You take this away from the citizens of Denmark and give it to a simple majority here in the Folketing. I just think that the Foreign Minister should respect that and say that yes, that is what it is about, and not just the 22 acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153732	Now I'm really, really fond of Twitter myself. It's an excellent social medium. However, it is not a greater source of justice than a bill in the Parliamentary Chamber. So just to repeat what I replied to the second question was the same as the first question.... it is the case that what we are voting on here in the Parliamentary Chamber in a moment is to transform the reservation of law into an opt-in system, and that is also what the Danes will be voting on on 3 December. I have said all the way through, even when I finished my speech here a few minutes ago, that this is a matter of sovereignty in this area. Yes, that is why we have a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153807	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153809	Thank you. It is just one thing that I should like to clarify, and to which I would like confirmation from the Foreign Minister: is it not true that if it were to be a yes on 3 December, then there would not then be any possibility of withdrawing from Schengen and reintroducing border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153834	Yes, it is true that if we say 'yes' to Europol on 3 December, or if, in a referendum later, after a 'no' vote on 3 December, we join Europol, then we are also part of Schengen. Then some of Mr. Søren Søndergaard's fellow party members say that we must vote no now in order to have a later vote on Europol, then the later vote that the Danish People's Party wants will enter Europol and thus also into Schengen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153902	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153903	In other words, after a yes on 3 December, will we never be able to reinstate border controls in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153913-2	That depends, of course, on what is meant by border controls. It is possible, within the framework of the Schengen acquis, to tighten controls in the border area; it is possible, in certain cases, to introduce temporary border controls; it is even possible to temporarily close the borders if there are special circumstances. I do not understand the question, because the Danish People's Party must have itself considered what the consequences would be when it is said that the alternative to voting 'yes' on 3 December is to vote 'yes' to Europol and thus also to Schengen in a later referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153948	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112153949	Thank you. I need to clear this up with Per Lachman and question 21. We can decide whether to vote on Europol or whether to vote on Europol and 22 legislative acts, or whether to vote on Europol and 22 legislative acts, but minus asylum and refugees, and that afterwards it is a general majority in the Folketing in relation to all future legal acts. Why, then, does the Minister bring Per Lachman's article into the debate rather than reply directly to Mr Per Lachman's question? Pelle Dragsted's question when it's as clear as it is here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154033	I understand that it is too difficult to deal with two questions in the same answer, so I shall now answer the same question to Mr McMillan-Scott. Christian Juhl, whom I replied in the second round to Mr. Pelle Dragsted. The government is fully behind the answer to question 21.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154051	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154052	And so it is possible to vote 'no' on 3 December and then take a vote only on Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154104	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154105	The government is fully behind the answer to question 21.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154112	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154116	Thank you. I would just like to follow up on my colleague's question from before on border controls. Can the Minister explain what kind of border controls the Minister is thinking about and can the Minister confirm whether we can have the same border controls as we had before 2001?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154136	We are in Schengen, and I am very pleased about that. Being in Schengen and having open borders means that it is much, much easier, both in relation to citizens who move across Europe, but also goods that are transported across Europe, and thus we have a more integrated trade. It creates growth, it creates jobs, it creates wealth. I do not want us to go back, and that is why I do not want us to go back to the border controls that we had before we entered Schengen. If we say 'yes' to Europol, whether you do so with the proposal that we have put on the table for 3 December, or with a proposal that some from the Danish People's Party have to do so alone at a later stage, then it follows that we also participate fully in Schengen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154220	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154222	Well, I didn't really ask what the minister wanted. I asked whether it would be possible to introduce the same border control as we had before 2001, if it were to be a yes on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154235	I apologise, but I thought the rapporteur was aware that participating in Schengen meant that you could not have the same border controls. I really thought it was such a reasonable thing to know from the questioner that it was not possible to do so. I think most people are aware of that. But I'm sorry if I overestimated it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154253	Thank you. Then we are done with the first round and we thank the Minister. The second round has been coveted, and the first speaker is Kenneth Kristensen Berth. In addition, Søren Søndergaard is currently on the list. Here you go, Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154325	We have had a long debate and I am rather sorry to have to extend it, but I have to say that it seems that there has been so much confusion about the purely legal aspects of this proposal that we need to clarify it. In his speech, the Minister referred several times to Per Lachmann as a witness of truth, and Per Lachmann raised doubts as to whether an opt-in system could be used in a limited form. At the same time, however, the Minister indicated that he was fully behind the answer given to Peter Skaarup in question No. 21, which relates to the possibility of using the electoral system in such a way as to implement a section 20 procedure for future elections. And I have to say that I think it is such a fundamental and crucial question that we need to be clear about it and therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would ask that the matter be referred back to committee so that we can clarify that question further.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154442	There's now Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth proposed that the debate be suspended and that the proposal be referred back to committee. The debate on interruptions takes place in accordance with the rules for short remarks. Does anyone wish to speak? The Secretary of State does. And it's from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154540	I do not understand the confusion that some are trying to create. There are, among other things: by Mr. Pelle Dragsted and Mr. Christian Juhl was asked whether the government was behind the answer to question 21. That's what I've been saying to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted that the government does, and I've told Mr. Christian Juhl, that the government does. I repeat here that we are behind the answer to Question 21 and so there should be no ambiguity in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154608	Søren Søndergaard has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154614	It is clear that we accept a lot of controversy in the assembly halls, including those which may not be entirely in accordance with all the laws and regulations. But it is a problem when it happens from the Parliament's platform hopefully not out of ignorance, but relatively conscious. After all, the Minister is repeatedly using a legal expert opinion as an argument against the proposal put forward by, among others. The Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten on how to join Europol. The Minister then says that I agree with the answer to Question 21. And here it is quite the opposite. Well, I don't think that's good. I think the Minister should come up here and say that it was a mistake to include Lachmann in that discussion, because that is a completely different discussion. He has nothing to do with this. On the question of the possibility of holding a vote on Europol alone, Lachmann is out. The only thing that is in is the answer to question 21. If the Minister says so, I think we can avoid having to go through a committee procedure to bring it forward. It is clear that if the Minister of Parliament's speaking chair shows up with his wrong use of legal sources, we will have to have that committee dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112154741	Are there any more who wish to comment on what is currently being discussed, namely the interruption of the processing and the return of the case? There isn't. We have called for the vote. We need to make sure the time is right, so we need to check the time. It'll take a minute. We take a break of approx. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112155337	We're getting ready to vote. And just to outline the situation, there are now proposals to suspend the debate and refer to the second reading of the committee, and that is what we are going to vote on. Then it is the case that those who wish to interrupt the debate now and refer it back to committee shall vote in favour. And those who wish to continue the debate here and now in the Chamber must vote against. Is that clear to everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112155412	Then we have to vote. The vote will end. The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112155435	We note that the debate is continuing. We are in the second round and we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112155502	I can be relatively brief. The Minister asked me a number of questions, most of a polemical nature, and I will not dwell on that. We'll take that for the next three weeks when we have an election campaign. However, I would like to stress the reason for this: there were a few parties here who wanted to clarify the ambiguity created by the Minister himself, namely a ambiguity which consisted in whether it is possible to hold a separate vote on Europol alone and join Europol, if that is what you want. It's possible. The Ministry of Justice has confirmed that. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has confirmed that. And no matter how many legal professors are excavated by various newspapers, and no matter how often the Foreign Minister chooses to quote them from Parliament's platform, that does not change the answer given to the committee. I think that is extremely important to establish, because part of our business has certainly been to have a debate on what is at the heart of the matter. And to those who want to go out in this election campaign and say that there was no other option, and to those parties that do not want us to vote on Europol and those who do not want us to be in Europol, I would say that is not true. For there is a solution other than that indicated by the government, namely a solution to carry out a vote only on Europol, according to the answer to Question 21. That debate is no more. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for giving us the opportunity to make this absolutely clear. And then I'd like to wish everyone a good election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112155642	No one has signed up to short remarks. I would like to ask if anyone else would like to speak. That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112155654	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 69 (S, V, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 37 (DF, EL and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted, but not by a majority of five sixths of the members of the Folketing, and the bill will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112155742	We are going to draw it for a moment for the sake of calm in the Chamber and those who want to leave the Chamber. We move on to the agenda. The debate is open and we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first is from the Socialists, and this is Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112155836	Thank you. In Denmark, we have long been at the forefront when it comes to green conversion and ambitious targets for renewable energy. In the Social Democratic Party we continue to want Denmark to help kick in new doors when it comes to green solutions. That is common sense for the environment and climate, and it is common sense for green growth, jobs and exports. On the issue of household wind turbines, the energy reconciliation circle agreed back in 2013 to continue support to ensure continued expansion with household mills, but it was also agreed in 2015 that a review of the aid should be carried out, not least if the expansion went well and it has gone beyond expectations. That is the reason for the proposal here for a phasing-out model and a pool restriction, and of course we support that in the Social Democrats, as we are part of the energy conciliation circle. As the technology in this area becomes cheaper and the expansion of household mills is greater than expected, it is only fair that we should adjust the rates of aid, but because the bill and also because of questions about new support rules and possible hoarding have been tabled without consultation, there is, of course, good reason to point our ears when we listen to the consultation answers we have received, just as we have only received the consultation note yesterday. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are also looking forward to the committee reading. We would like to help uncover some of the issues that the industry has for the bill and some of the uncertainties that the industry feels. It is about the size of the restriction of the pool, as the industry says is too small to ensure a domestic market for household mills and thus a development that supports growth, jobs and also the emerging exports in this area. And it is about clarity about the importance and timing of the Commission's approval of the aid, especially for 2016, and it is also about clear answers from the Danish Energy Agency regarding the deadlines announced in the draft law and their importance, which have been taken a little more into account in the consultation note. It is a complex matter, and it is of course important to clarify exactly when. So we are in favour of a phasing-out model, which is being proposed with the draft law and which we have helped to agree in the energy conciliation circle, but we would also like to look at some of the criticisms that the consultation reflects in the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160049	Thank you. I do not see any brief comments, so thank the rapporteur. We shall continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is rapporteur Mikkel Dencker for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160101	Thank you. The previous rapporteur mentioned that the background to the bill here is an agreement between seven parties in the Folketing on a support scheme for household wind turbines, which was concluded at the beginning of 2013. One element of that agreement from the beginning of 2013 was precisely that the level of aid had to be reviewed when the total amount of the aid was 2.5 MW of wind turbine capacity covered by the scheme and that the scheme had to be reviewed again in 2015. These things have then collapsed here this year, and there has been an evaluation of the system in the conciliation circle, which includes all the parties of the Folketing, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative. There was agreement in the conciliation circle to continue the scheme, however at a slightly lower level, in that there was no agreement to continue the current level of aid of DKK 2.5. per kilowatt-hour. It is, of course, a permanent part of Danish energy policy practice to set up support schemes to push new technologies into operation, and this scheme can also be used as an example of this. A rather favourable system of support has been established for household windmills for a few years and then to start to step it up once the industry has got off to a good start and has also begun to export its mills abroad. So we think it is reasonable that we should step off this system in the same way as has been done with previous aid schemes. I would like to say that in the Danish People's Party we are pleased that we have been involved in the original scheme. We are also pleased with the developments that have resulted from the fact that many companies have got off to a good start in producing household windmills and have also got exports going and created some jobs. We believe that the level of support can continue to support this for some years to come, so that we still have a domestic market which is supported to some extent, and then it should be able to bear itself together with the derived exports that Denmark's expertise throws away. So in the Danish People's Party we are satisfied with the arrangement that has been agreed, and that is why we naturally support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160335	There is one brief comment, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160340	After all, we are in the same conciliation circle, so I do not need to question the whole scheme in this way. I would like to ask something, because in the conciliation circle we accepted that the Danish Energy Agency was working on the idea that it was 1 MW that was like the framework. Now we have had a lot of consultation answers, and I would guess that the rapporteur has also received a lot of letters and perhaps also emails on this issue. I think that in the committee work we should look at whether the limit should necessarily be 1 MW or whether one can be open to looking at some sort of rubber band for that limit, and therefore I would like to hear how the Danish People's Party views it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160421	I would say that in the Danish People's Party we have also received some inquiries which I can hear that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also has, and we have of course read them with interest. For, of course, it is good to get some industry knowledge relevant to the legislation we are dealing with here. So we would very much like to take part in a discussion with the other parties in the conciliation circle here on the possible consequences of the consultation responses that have been received. So we are happy to enter into that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160452	The questioner for the second brief remark. Thank you, the questioner does not want that. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160507	Thank you for that, President. In December 2014, Energinet.dk had registered a development with household wind turbines since November 2012 of 2.4 MW, and in accordance with the political agreement of 2013, the energy reconciliation circle therefore reviewed the support rate for household wind turbines and on 18 December 2014 approved a proposal to phase out support for household wind turbines. Without wishing to repeat what the previous rapporteurs have said, the aim is that we should continue to receive much more support for household windmills, but it must be a balancing approach so that more household windmills are suited to the actual consumption of households. That is why the Left supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160557	I do not see any brief comments, so thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Do we need a rapporteur for the Enhedslisten? Wait a minute. We'll just take the next one in line, and we'll come back and see if your rapporteur comes. I think we can do that today. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112160634	Thank you. We think this is a rather sad, perhaps rather a rather unfortunate, proposal. In a sense, this is where we set up a support system and then change it quite soon after, yes, a classic. Well, we've known the stop-go regime for a long time. After all, it was only a year after the energy settlement, so we saw what happened with the solar cells. It cost almost 1 billion. kr. in the Treasury. Now we have the small household windmills for debate. It's not like they're emptying the treasury, you might say. We are talking about 1 million. kr. increasing up to 4 million. kr. It's barely visible. When you read the consultation answers, you see what you hear from the industry too, namely that it can be 300 to 400 jobs, and it is of course thought-provoking that you can get so many jobs for 1 million. kr., considering the cost of the housing job scheme. Anybody remember that? How much did the housing job scheme cost? So that way, it's pretty cheap jobs. If they had exaggerated, then it is only 150 jobs, then it is 150 times better than the housing job scheme seen with employment glasses. But I do not think that is necessarily the most important thing either. The most important thing here is that we are in a stop-go situation that we cannot be served with. No one can benefit from getting into some schemes which make it impossible to know whether they have been bought or sold. It's poison for the investment climate. I'm sure in the industries that are experiencing this, you get to their head and say, "What are they doing in there?" I know there was a boom for. There has been a level which has now been reached quite quickly, but we are still in a situation where we stop this before we actually start paying out the money. So it took so long for the European Union, so when we arrived at December, as we have just heard, we stopped, but the payments did not start until the new year, and then we stop again here in November. I think it's a world record in regret-player, or whatever you can call it. We have the approach to this, that if you even as a private person acquires your energy source, it can be solar cells, it can be a household mill, then you should also be allowed to use that product or energy without being picked by the state. The fact that you save the power until you need it does mean that when you pull the power out of the power outlet, you get a fire tax. We don't like that. We think it is fair that one can buy one's own energy source without having to deliver to the great insatiable welfare state, because that is really what we are talking about when we have taxes close to 40 billion. kr. In this area. As I have said, it is a pity that we have to go into this law and change it so quickly, and we therefore regard this issue of aid primarily as an absence of a tax, because that is really what this is about. We do not regard it as a subsidy. We would like to get rid of both taxes and subsidies in this area. They are too violent, and they should not be allowed to tilt up and down to great frustration for both companies and citizens. That is why we are critical of the proposal, and I am glad that some of the rapporteurs, whom I have heard, would like to discuss the answers that have been received again. Because it might be that we could get some pretty cheap jobs, export jobs and green jobs out of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112161054	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112161101	Thank you. I've had a lot of doubts about how to deal with this bill. I can see that, in the great transition to a renewable energy system, small household windmills are battling to a limited extent. They produce at the same time as the large wind turbines, that is, just when it blows, and the effect of each mill is small. At the same time, however, I feel that in this specific context we need to see things in a slightly larger perspective than just the production of renewable energy. There are two important aspects to household wind turbines that I would like to touch on. First of all, I would like to say that these are local energy production and support for local craft production, which is a competence that can be developed for even better renewable energy solutions. The present proposal will most likely shut down the industry which is growing today with local Danish production and export potential. I think that's a shame. For that is precisely the kind of growth we need, in other words local jobs in renewable energy. We will therefore lose production jobs in rural areas as well as craft jobs for the installation and maintenance of mills if the savings are made. After all, the clear assessment of the household wind turbine industry is that there will be no market for household mills in the future if this bill is voted through. The current household wind turbine market in Denmark is a crucial platform for the beginning of exports and is based on the current support. Until 2010, the United States, China and Japan in particular were heavily involved in the development of household mills, but then Denmark joined the lead, and it is therefore a position that you can choose to maintain and expand or compromise seriously if you remove the aid now. Secondly, and I think this is just as important, I would urge that we take a look at what the legislative proposal will have to do with public ownership of renewable energy. The local anchoring of the switchboard is absolutely essential if it is to get through in earnest. 80% of the Danes are generally positive towards wind turbines, yet a great many are opposed to the establishment of wind turbines in their immediate vicinity. Not in my backyard is a major challenge for the switch to renewable energy, and I therefore think we should use all the opportunities we have to create ownership of wind turbines in the population. Among other things, you can. the setting up of household wind turbines because they create personal interests and incentives in the conversion process. Renewable energy simply becomes more exciting and present and the individual when the mill is in your own garden and you can keep an eye on how much power you produce yourself. I believe that for many people it is becoming natural to think about the environment and climate, and that is why we also see the demand for wind turbines for private wind turbines rising. I believe that this is only a good step towards the transition to 100 per cent. renewable energy, whose household wind turbines become a natural part of rural buildings and thus also pave the way for popular acceptance of the large wind turbines. So my conclusion is that I think it will be an expression of a narrow understanding of what the transition to green energy requires and means if we reduce support for household windmills as significantly as the proposal suggests. Household wind turbines allow people to be part of the transition in a very concrete and effective way. Reduction of CO2 I believe that the people must be the real force behind the transformation of the energy system, and this is guaranteed, among other things. with private wind turbines, solar cells, wind turbine guilds, solar heating etc. Household mills are part of the micro-level transition and may need to be seen more as part of the journey towards people's private local conversion than as a purely systemic cost-benefit business. I hope we can discuss these aspects in committee, but as a starting point I am critical of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112161520	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no short comments inscribed. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112161532	Thank you. Today wind energy on land is by far the cheapest form of power production. Technology has developed over decades and is now cheaper than coal and all the other black technologies. For the Radical Left, that is exactly where we want to go, because when green technologies can win over blacks at normal market conditions, we have created a green economy and a more sustainable society. Our climate policy and the great energy reconciliation from 2012 provide support for a wide range of new green technologies so that we can have the technologies developed and eventually made cheaper and competitive like wind turbines on land. The draft law here provides for a reduction in support for household wind turbines, as we have agreed in the energy conciliation and among the parties that are part of the settlement. Household windmills have received the highest support from everyone, and we did so in order to get production going and to sell this technology. We have succeeded. Much more has been sold than expected, and a very large industry has been created. That is why it is time to introduce the phasing-out of aid that we have agreed so that the aid goes down to the level of solar cells, and we think this is very logical in order to achieve equality between technologies that can be roughly the same. The bill has been in consultation until a few days ago. This has given us very little opportunity to receive input from the population and from companies to it. I think there are two issues to which we should just discuss in committee and be able to give some proper answers to the industry. In the bill there is a pool of 1 MW, and we were told that was enough to meet the need for setup in the coming years. The industry believes that this is quite wrong and I think that the consultation note lacks a proper explanation of why 1 MW is the right thing to land on. In addition to that, I have doubts as to whether there is an EU approval of this aid scheme or whether we are going through a long process in which the industry does not know whether it has been bought or sold because you do not have the aid authorisation in place. I just can't figure that out from what I can read in the bill. But maybe the Minister will answer that question. The Radical Left supports the bill as we have agreed, but there are just these two issues that we would like to discuss in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112161812	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112161822	Thank you. After all, in December 2014 and again in September 2015, the Energy Reconciliation Group decided to reduce the support for household wind turbines, and this is on the basis of what several rapporteurs have now emphasised, namely that it is very good work out there. We are looking at aid by setting up a three-part phasing-out scheme. One is a reduction in the settlement price; the other is a limited application pool of 1 MW and the last is a shorter support period instead of 20 years today it will be 12 years forward. Of course, the SF supports that. Household wind turbines are receiving very high support today. The aid scheme has had a rather tumultuous existence because it was linked to the aid scheme for solar cells, i.e. the small RES plants. It is clear that aid must be stepped down, but we will try to find a more relaxed escalation in committee to ease the transition for producers of household windmills. Here it is most relevant to look at volume, i.e. the annual pool of 1 MW, which could be increased if necessary. But this is exactly what we're looking at in committee. Against that, and this must also be said from a reasonable point of view, it speaks of the fact that the expansion is already far greater than what we had assumed. So all in all, we can see from the consultation answers that there are several who actually back up. There are some who believe that the pools should be completely removed and there are also many individuals who have chosen to write because they are concerned about whether the 1 MW pool is too limited. That is why we would like it to be made clear in the work of the committee, and that will be our focus, but of course we support the proposal in the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162009	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. I would just like to say that, after the Conservative People's Party, I am going a little back in the line of speakers and giving the Enhedslisten the opportunity to come up with a rapporteur, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162026	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party we are, of course, in agreement with the conciliation circle, which has been concluded on several occasions, in which it is clear that support for household windmills must be reduced. It has been pointed out several times, including from this point of view, that the aid has been too lucrative and that there may have been overcompensation. Household wind turbines, it has to be said, are currently receiving one of the highest rates of aid, also compared to other technologies. As has already been said, this bill has only been submitted for consultation on the day of its submission, because it has been feared that this hoarding would take place, and that is probably a legitimate concern. This has certainly been sensible, but it has also meant that we have had late access to these hearings. In several of the consultation responses, it has been pointed out and it has also already been reversed here today that the 1 MW pool may be too small for the industry to run around. It points out that the bill will mean that many of the producers will have to turn the key. We are, of course, listening to this with concern, because that has never been the intention. And as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has rightly pointed out in the past, it is not because it is a large amount of money that we are talking about, and it is a lot of jobs that are to be found in these producers. We look forward to the work of the committee, where we hope to have a good and constructive dialogue both in committee and with the Minister, in which we make sure that we get this law tightened up in a way that ensures that both the agreements of the conciliation circle are met, that a reasonable balance is ensured in support for the various forms of renewable energy and that we also ensure fair conditions for business in this matter. So we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162210	Thank you. There are no brief comments either. Then I will give the floor to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162225	As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is not in a position to be present, I would like to state the view of the Enhedslisten on this law. After all, Enhedslisten is very concerned that renewable energy expansion is based on popular support. We want to give the public the best opportunities to invest in renewable energy, to become co-owners of the renewable energy supply, whether wind turbines, solar cells or all sorts of other renewable energy sources. But, of course, that does not change the need for the aid schemes to be sensible, they must be balanced and not too lucrative. In the Enhedslisten we are positive about this bill, but as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, the consultation deadline has been extremely short. This is also why, in the upcoming committee work, we are going to carefully examine all the many inputs that come from the industry and from all the people and companies out in the real world who know about this, to see if you've put yourself in the right place with this bill. So, like many others, we are also very much looking forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162343	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so I will give the floor to the Minister, and that is the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162358	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. As has been shown, the aim of the bill is to reduce the support for electricity for new household wind turbines. The draft law implements the decisions of the Energy Regulatory Board from December 2014 and September 2015 to reduce the aid by introducing a phasing-out scheme from 2016 to 2020. The decision was taken because the expansion was approaching 21⁄2 MW at the end of 2014 and the political agreement of January 2013 indicated that the aid had to be adjusted when the expansion exceeded 21⁄2 MW. The phasing-out mechanism can only be put into effect once the European Commission has approved it in accordance with EU State aid rules. This applies irrespective of the fact that this is a reduction in an aid scheme already approved. The scheme was notified to the European Commission at the same time as the legislative process amending the law on the promotion of renewable energy was launched. It is merely a phasing-out scheme from 2016 that has been notified for approval. This is because the existing aid scheme has only been approved up to and including 2016. The European Commission is also expected to approve only the proposed phasing-out scheme for 2016. Once a long-term solution to the PSP problem has been found, the phasing-out scheme from 2017 to 2020 will be notified for approval. Finally, I would like to point out that the late transmission of the consultation note to the Danish Parliament is due to the fact that the draft law was submitted in consultation at the same time as the deadline for the submission of the consultation reply on 4 November 2015 due to the risk of hoarding. I welcome the great interest Parliament has expressed today in the draft law. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussion on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, and with these comments I hope that Parliament will be willing to deal with the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162616	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162632	The debate is open, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the Socialists, Mr President. Erik Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162656	Thank you. The Socialists believe that Denmark should take the lead in ensuring that companies take global responsibility. This applies both to corporate responsibility for fundamental human rights, but also to corporate responsibility in environmental matters and to corporate responsibility for combating corruption in those parts of the world where it is a major challenge. All this contributes to the OECD mediation and complaint institution for responsible corporate behaviour. The institution's task is to create a framework for dialogue, mediation and conflict resolution when disputes arise between companies, organisations and public authorities regarding violations of human rights, workers' rights and international environmental standards. That is why we also have a responsibility to ensure that the mediation and redress institution for responsible business conduct functions in the best possible way and is of the utmost use to those people or groups who have been subjected to violations of OECD guidelines. The draft law is about whether it is necessary to maintain a review clause in relation to the mediation and complaint institution under the auspices of the OECD, which was adopted by the Danish Parliament back in 2012. According to the 2012 Law on the Mediation and Complaints Institution, the Minister of Business and Growth is required to submit legislative proposals for revision of parts of or all of the law. In this context, the OECD Evaluation Group, together with a number of stakeholders, has evaluated the mediation and complaint institution. Both the evaluation team and NGOs and companies are positive towards the institution as it operates today, so there is no need to propose a proper revision of the law. The OECD evaluation group writes that the institution is working well, but that there are some things that can improve, and therefore there are also some recommendations in the evaluation. The recommendations go, among other things. to strengthen information and information activities. This applies, for example, to information to Danish companies about how to deal with subcontractors from developing countries. In the Social Democratic Party, we agree that there is no need for a revision of the entire legislation to ensure that the recommendations are implemented. The proposal is therefore only about repealing the revision clause, as it has lost its importance since the evaluation has now been carried out. The Socialists see no reason to maintain the revision clause, which is why we support the proposal to repeal it. Finally, on behalf of the Radicals, I would like to say that they also support the proposal to repeal the revision clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162915	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112162927	As the Social Democrats' rapporteur said, it is a relatively new law that was made on the basis of an agreement that enabled us to implement this legislation in 2012. In connection with the creation of the Act, a revision clause was drawn up which obliges the Danish Parliament to carry out a review in the parliamentary year 2015-16. As I said earlier, it makes no sense to carry out a review of what has already been revised in the context of the OECD study that has been carried out. And in the context of the treatment that has been going on, we can actually see that both professional organisations, trade unions, NGOs and so on. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that everything is actually fairly good in relation to the operation of the institution. Therefore, it makes no sense to carry out this review at this stage, and therefore the Danish People's Party can also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163022	Thank you, too, and there are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163030	Thank you. As the two previous rapporteurs have explained, it is only a question of repealing a review clause in the draft law on the mediation and complaint institution for responsible corporate behaviour, which came into force in 2012. An evaluation has been carried out and, as others have said, there is quite good satisfaction with the way the institution works. The evaluation is quite positive, there are some small things that will then be taken care of, and that is why it is an easy small matter to be able to see that things are well under control. It is therefore a good idea that when we establish something that is completely new and untested, we also make the trouble relatively soon after checking whether things are working as intended. This has happened in this case and, as I said, everyone seems quite satisfied. Then we will just have to abolish the provision in the legislation which is the reason why it has been evaluated, and we are, of course, fully committed to that by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163137	Thank you. There are still no brief comments. The next speaker is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163153	Thank you. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Pelle Dragsted, not having the opportunity to be present, I would like to state the views of the Enhedslisten. The proposal we are debating is about dropping a review clause in the law on the mediation and complaint institution for responsible corporate behaviour. The Mediation and Complaints Institution for Responsible Corporate Conduct deals with cases of breaches of OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. It can, for example, be done. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. Employees or organisations may lodge complaints with the institution. The Enhedslisten strongly supports the complaint institution, which we actually worked to get established for several years before it happened. It is clear that it has its limitations, as it is a non-legal institution which cannot directly hold companies accountable, but it puts all other equal pressure on companies to behave properly in the world. When the institution was set up, it was agreed that the law would be revised after three years on the basis of experience. A so-called peer review has just been carried out, which is fundamentally positive, but in which a number of recommendations have been made. The Mediation and Complaints Institution has considered that there is no need to amend the law in order to implement the recommendations of the evaluation report, but that this can be done as part of the institution's ongoing strategic work. A number of developing countries organisations have pointed out that they believe that it would be wiser to extend the revision clause instead of repealing it, so that the review takes place in a few years' time. We can see the sense of that. However, as the Minister also states in his reply to the hearing, there is nothing to prevent the law from being reviewed if the need is there. I take the Minister's answer as a confirmation that the government will be prepared to do so, and on that basis the Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163341	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Next in line, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163353	We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163356	That is how short it can be done, and at least there are no brief comments. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163412	Thank you. The comments to the draft law state that the revision clause has lost its importance because the mediation and complaint institution has undergone an evaluation process which does not lead to changes in the law. Therefore, with this bill, the Minister will repeal the revision clause. It makes good sense, of course, to repeal the revision clause if it does not have any significance, but I do not agree that it does not matter. In the alternative, we agree that it is not appropriate at this stage to revise the law, because the mediation and complaint institution is only a few years old, and in addition, the OECD report of the spring has made a lot of recommendations to the appeal institution, which will implement 15 of the new recommendations from this report. That is why, of course, time and calm are needed to implement the new recommendations before we revise the law. The alternative is in agreement with the 92 group that the revision clause should be extended rather than repealed, and we will therefore be tabling amendments to extend the revision clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163520	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163544	From the SF's point of view, we also believe that something still remains to be looked at. Among other things: The comments to the draft law also state that the mediation institution must look at human rights, that there are a number of areas such as labour rights and international environmental standards and corruption, etc. etc. It is a very good area to keep companies, including multinational companies, up to date, and that is why we also believe that we need to review it in the future too, and we would like to support the alternative amendments with that. Then I think it is a bit funny that when we recently discussed the procurement law in here in roughly the same circle, there is not a majority in favour of incorporating into the procurement law all these fine standards which fall within the scope of the mediation institution. There is not a majority in the Chamber to incorporate any of these fine standards, which are otherwise something that needs to be met here in the procurement law's terms of reference. It is a little special, I think, but we are, of course, proposing the amendment to the procurement law anyway. Support from this to the alternative's amendment. We also think it is too early to finally conclude in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163713	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163723	In the light of the sensible evaluation of the institution, we think it is a good idea to remove the review clause so that the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163735	Thank you. This did not give rise to brief comments. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163751	Thank you for that, and thank you for your comments on the draft law, which several rapporteurs have actually described very well. However, the mediation and complaint institution for responsible corporate behaviour is, after all, a national contact point in relation to the OECD guidelines for multinational companies. The institution was established by law, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, in 2012. The draft law we are debating today is intended to repeal the revision clause of the law, as the provision has lost its meaning. In the spring of 2015, the Mediation and Complaints Institution underwent an evaluation in the form of a peer review conducted by the OECD, evaluating the role and work of the institutions. The evaluation involved relevant Danish stakeholders, including stakeholder organisations, business organisations, trade unions and NGOs. The assessment of the institution is very positive and there is great satisfaction with the institution's structural structure, procedures and general legitimacy. The evaluation report makes a wide range of recommendations, in particular on the information and information activities of the institution. The Mediation and Complaints Institution has thus considered that the implementation of most of the recommendations can take place as part of the institution's strategic work. Therefore, there is no need to make changes to the law as a result of the evaluation, which was also agreed in the hearing. Against this background, the revision clause may be repealed. That is why, of course, I hope for good and constructive treatment. I also note, of course, that there are parties that will be interested in some issues during the committee procedure, but would like to say to the Enhedslisten, who raised the question of whether we can continue to discuss this whole issue, that of course we are always welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163940	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112163944	Will the Minister in the legislative process of this proposal be prepared to look at the fact that some of the fine standards on workers' rights, the environment, etc. which have just emerged from the OECD are actually written into the law? Of course, if you did, we'd be all in it. We find it a little strange that the law does not make it clearer when it is the objectives against which companies must be kept.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164025	In general terms, we are discussing the whole question of the revision clause today. If you now want to have a major discussion on the content of the law, the SF is welcome to ask questions about those aspects during the committee procedure, but immediately I see no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164044	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164046	It was only that the Minister could, if the Minister thought it was nice to have completely identical support from the whole Chamber, indicate whether it might be even better, even more explicit, and that there was therefore no need for a review clause anymore. It was really the only thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164105	In general, I think that what we are discussing here today is an expression of the whole question of lifting the revision clause. And I am not going to take any initiatives on what the SF is proposing, but we can come back to that when I see the specific questions from the SF, as the government is a very kind government that always wants to discuss the proposals that might come, and that is why we are of course doing so in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164129	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164145	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Business and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164216	Thank you. Let me start by signing for the SF to raise that debate today in the Parliamentary Chamber. In fact, I think that this is an important debate which deserves to be discussed, and then we can always return to the concrete proposal, but I think there is reason to acknowledge that this issue has been discussed a great deal both during the last parliamentary term, during the parliamentary election campaign and also after the parliamentary election campaign, and I think it is also advisable to continue to discuss it in the future, as we have to note that there are still challenges in terms of lending in our rural areas. When it comes to the proposal under discussion here today, the government clearly believes that there are a large number of problems with it, and that is why we do not believe that we can support the proposal put forward by the SF. In principle, I do not think there is a need for the state to go in and run a mortgage institution. It is and remains a private company, and that is the way it should continue to be. In addition, a State-supported mortgage credit institution will have to have established an annual framework in relation to the Finance Act, both when it comes to loss recovery and when it comes to subsidies to the interest rate. And that will undoubtedly also mean, if the proposal were followed, that a quota system would then be set up in which only a limited proportion of eligible borrowers would be able to obtain loans. These borrowers, if they had to agree to the idea, would also typically be borrowers that private institutions would not serve either because of excessive uncertainty about the value of the mortgage or because the borrower's financial situation is considered to be too poor. Thus, the institution will have a loan portfolio with low credit quality, which will certainly also mean that the State will have to take on significant loss risks. At the same time, a model of subsidies at below-market rates would seriously distort competition. State financing of credit institutions or of a government credit institution would therefore also have to be approved by the European Commission. Therefore, I must also say today that it is the government's immediate assessment that the scheme would be in breach of the State aid rules. In general terms, the government does not believe that state aid is the right way to go in this matter. For the same reason, one can then conclude that this is not the way the government will go. But let me say today that the government will do something for our rural areas and that I also recognise that there are challenges. That is why I also need to say today that this is an issue which, of course, needs to be dealt with. However, the committee also concluded that creditworthy customers in rural areas continue to receive substantial loans. What can you do about it? First of all, the government believes that the challenge must be addressed by creating much more growth and development in our rural areas, and that is also what can in the long term achieve a better balance between the country and the city. This will mean that new jobs can be created to attract new residents and will thus also help to make the housing market more attractive. So the best cure for long lay times and falling sales prices will always be growth and employment rather than direct or indirect State aid. That is why the government has already taken initiatives to create better conditions for growth and development throughout Denmark. We have recently presented the most comprehensive and most ambitious plan for the relocation of state jobs • almost 4,000 government jobs will the government move out into parts of Denmark • jobs that are mainly relocated from the metropolitan area. The government has also recently presented an experimental scheme to strengthen Danish coastal and natural tourism. The scheme provides for private investment in the region of approx. 4 billion kr. all over the country. I also have no doubt for a second that this will help to create better opportunities for development in our rural areas and thus also potentially more jobs. Finally, it is also the case that the government is planning to present a very ambitious plan called growth and development throughout Denmark, which will be presented here in November. A strong focus on our plan •Growth and development in the whole of Denmark is precisely to create better conditions for development and not least private job creation. But it is clear that, of course, we also have to deal with the issue of financing. With regard to the regulation of the financial sector, the Committee on the Financing of Rural Housing and Commercial Property concluded that there are no clear examples of rules limiting lending in rural areas. However, the Committee concludes that the so-called six-month rule and the FSA's guidance on the availability of some market players are considered more restrictive than the FSA interprets these rules. The committee's recommendation that these rules be clarified and adjusted is also one of the things that will form part of the government's future plan for growth and development throughout Denmark, precisely to discuss whether, among other things, it will be possible to find a solution to this problem. The six-month rule and the available amount discussion may look different and whether political solutions can be provided to the two issues. I am concerned about providing solutions to this, but I am not going to present today the government's proposals on the two points, and not least what can be done. Let me conclude by saying that I am also concerned with having a dialogue with the financial sector on the state of funding in our rural areas. I have no doubt for a second that it is essential that the financial institutions also help to support and develop our rural areas, and I believe that they have an interest in this, since they now have large loans that are given in rural areas or have been given in rural municipalities. Therefore, I also intend to invite both the Finance Council, the Credit Council and the Credit Society to a discussion on what we can potentially expect in terms of creating better conditions for development in our rural areas. I have already had a dialogue with a number of organisations, and the message that is being sent to me is that it is absolutely crucial that we put much more turbo on growth and development. That is also why the government, as its overriding bid for how we can create a better balance for Denmark, has to provide better growth opportunities for some of the industries that today hold hands with employment in our rural municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164913	There are, for the time being, two short remarks to the Minister and the first is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112164921	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we are not, of course, writing that it should be government mortgage. Some models have been proposed, one of which could be that they were State-supported loans. Then it can be said that there are many areas in our society that we support economically. I could, for example. I should like to mention agriculture. So there are plenty of areas and professions and so on. in our society, where it is not on market terms, but where we help for one reason or another. But now I want to address this issue of jobs and development. For the Minister is quite right that some of the things that mean a great deal in rural areas are jobs. There are 180,000 government jobs in this country. Eighty thousand of them are located in the Capital Region, and now the government has announced that it will relocate 3,900 jobs. I think that would be a very good thing if it were not for that curl that we should at the same time make a re-priority contribution which costs 11 000 jobs. So net, of course, the government's policy means that the various municipalities in the country lose 7,000 jobs, and that in itself is a pity. But I would just like to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that within the mortgage system there are so-called black spots on the map? I think the minister knows what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165048	I can confirm that I know what the term black spots might cover, but I am not sure if I have exactly the same view as SF. What I think the questioner wants answers to in his question to me is whether there are areas where no loans are granted. I have to say that I take note when I see, among other things. the recent statement by the National Bank on the lending situation in the country's municipalities that it would appear that in most places loans are actually on the way up. Of course, as a minister, I am also confronted with the question of whether there are places where it is difficult to get a mortgage. But I have to say that I do not have a picture that there are areas which, on the basis of postal numbers, or on the basis that they are located in a particular place, receive a no. One of the things I am discussing with the financial institutions is whether there is a policy in this area. These institutes assure me that you do not, but they say on the same occasion that there is a strong need for us to take initiatives to provide development opportunities in our rural areas. The recommendation they have made to me is that I take the lead in providing development opportunities for our rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165210	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165212	The mortgage council has also been out to say that only to focus on the rest time, i.e. to raise it from, for example. 6 months to 1 year will not solve this problem. When we support Danish agriculture, when we support the Blue Denmark, when we support so many professions for having life in the countryside, so to speak, to make Denmark hang together, because there are plenty of areas in this society that can't cope with market conditions, then I can't understand why people shouldn't have a helping hand to buy or sell a home. After all, growth is also affected when people get tied up or cannot get a loan to move somewhere where they might have got a job. We have to say that there are so many examples of this, as the Minister knows, I am sure that the Minister will be presented with a lot of concrete examples of healthy businesses and that people with a healthy economy will not be able to buy a home anyway, simply because in some cases the homes are too cheap.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165315	Let me address the whole issue of agriculture. It is, of course, the case that no illegal State aid is granted to Danish agriculture. I certainly believe that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is aware that the agricultural subsidies received in Denmark are also agricultural subsidies granted in other EU countries. So on the whole question of whether Danish agriculture receives illegal State aid or indirect State aid, I have to say that it is the same conditions of competition that apply to all EU countries. So I take the view that, if you have to choose between the state supporting a loan policy, by the state acting, as it were, as a mortgage institution, and that growth and development must be created, then at all times I will choose to create growth and development. That is why I am pleased to note today that this is an agenda that I sense that SF shares, and therefore I am also looking forward to presenting our project •Growth and development throughout Denmark, where we will give some of the professions that matter in our rural areas a better framework conditions. So I am quite confident that SF would actually also like to help support tourism better, that our agriculture will be better and that our production companies will be better. I hope, then, that we can agree with the SF that this will take place because it will help both to strengthen population development in our rural areas but, above all, to maintain jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165437	The next short remark is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165442	The short part of the long term is that the report by the Committee on the Financing of Housing and Commercial Property in Rural Areas actually says, in short, that there are no problems, and I also think that the Minister is close to admitting that this is the main conclusion. There may be a bit of lay times and a little amount of available money etc., but on the whole there are no problems. But what does the Minister say about the fact that the Rural Council has actually supported the idea of a special credit institution or company, or whatever it might be? Possibly also supported by state subsidies, or how to organize it. It was no later than September that the Joint Council of Rural Regions, which among other things: 40 municipalities as members, of which I think 25 are led by the mayors of the Left, supported this idea because, as they say, something has to be done. And Denmark breaks down if nothing happens, and they have just put the finger on the whole financing problem, which is quite serious. After all, as members of parliament, we are being soaked up with examples from out there. It may be that a committee is sitting and finding out that there are no problems. But that does not quite correspond to the reality with which I am confronted, among other things. of the Joint Council of Rural Regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165608	In any case, I am pleased to have the opportunity to say to Mr. Henning Hyllested, that there must be something wrong with the acoustics in this room. Because I have not said that there are no problems with our rural areas. In fact, I did a lot to start by commending the SF for having taken up the debate. You have to remember to praise SF when you have the opportunity to do so, and I would like to do so here today. Because I think this is an important debate. The government has just clearly described in its government base that Denmark has challenges with that there are areas under pressure. And there is my political answer that I will provide better conditions for developing Denmark, and not least in relation to the many private companies that are under pressure, and also some of the professions that are under pressure. And if you have to do something to develop our rural areas, there are three things that will really make a difference. It is better framework conditions for Danish agriculture and food production. So far, I haven't heard that Enhedslisten supports that. It could, of course, come as breaking news if it happens today in the Assembly Hall. That's point one. Paragraph 2 is better conditions for coastal and natural tourism, and I must also say that I have not heard Enhedslisten support that proposal. And paragraph 3 is better conditions for our manufacturing companies, where I have also had to admit that Enhedslisten does not want it either. So I am concerned about creating better conditions for growth for private jobs. This is what I think it is necessary to do precisely to ensure better development and, above all, development that also benefits rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165728	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165730	What the government is doing now, for example. to drive the green harvester across the education sector, which will clearly mean that some of the educational institutions located in the outermost regions are likely to have to close or restrict. At least that is what we hear from the institutions in question, whether they are branch institutions or independent institutions. These are some of the most expensive to drive, and some of them are at risk when the green harvester is driven over. With regard to the economic agreements, what are the municipalities cutting back on when they are run with such a tight economy? Yes, it is the public schools out in the villages that are being closed down. And what are the regions saving? Of course, they fire people in the health care system, and thousands of people are alerted. This is in the opposite direction than creating growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165841	Thank you for the many questions, and with all due respect, it is not a great rural policy statement that we have today. I look forward to having it because I think it is there that some of these themes deserve to be discussed. But let me say that I am of the opinion that the municipalities are actually able to prioritise sensibly. In my opinion, the municipalities have always been, and I have no mistrust of the municipalities. We are going to these financial law negotiations with the clear message that more money needs to be spent on health. For me, it's completely unclear what Enhedslisten might think. I would like to acknowledge that on many points the Enhedslisten has black belt in pointing out problems. But we are not in a position to provide solutions at all, and I just have to say that our solution is that something needs to be done to create more private jobs, so there is also something to fund our welfare societies. There is a completely different agenda for Enhedslisten, and we must recognise that it is fair enough to have it. The agenda that Enhedslisten has will only serve to undermine our rural areas, because there is an agenda for agriculture to be limited in its development potential, for production companies to be subject to more taxes, and for tourism to have no potential for growth at all. This will all help to undermine our rural communities, and I do not think that is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112165952	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170008	Thank you. Social democracy is concerned about creating a Denmark in balance. That is why we take it seriously that people in sparsely populated areas experience that they cannot access mortgage financing even if their economy is healthy. Of course, that's not gonna work. It must be the private economy, not the postal code, which is crucial when meeting with the mortgage credit institution. That is why we also agree with the intentions contained in the SF's proposal. It must be possible to use mortgage financing throughout the country, whether you live in Tønder or in Taastrup. For this reason, during the last period of government, the Socialists have taken the initiative to bring together a broad-based committee with both economists and representatives of rural areas to describe the challenges associated with mortgage financing in sparsely populated areas. The group of experts led by Professor Michael Møller appeared at the beginning of October of this year with the report, which points to a number of proposals which, according to the Working Group, will improve access to mortgage financing in rural areas. The working group recommends, inter alia: to relax the requirements for the amount of availability in certain parts of the country and to clarify the six-month rule. It is a rule that some banks have interpreted in a way, so they refuse to mortgage the properties fully if they have a lay time of more than 6 months. The Socialists are positive about these measures, and we are also aware that the Rural Council has taken good note of the recommendations, which they have helped to shape through the place in the working group. We share the view that the proposals will help to address the problem of access to mortgage financing in the outermost regions. At the same time, the recommendations do not lead to the negative consequences of the creation of a State bank, with which point 1 can distort competition, and with which point 2 may mean that the State must take over a business area with which the State already has limited knowledge and experience. Furthermore, the Social Democrats believe that the Michael Møller report must not only meet the political reality, but that the conclusions and also the premises must meet the real reality outside Christiansborg. That is why we have taken the initiative to send the report to all relevant organisations, associations and authorities, including our rural municipalities, and that a hearing is then physically held here at Christiansborg, where representatives of rural areas, the Rural Committee and the authors of the report can discuss the report and the conclusions of the report. We look forward to working further on the issue and we will encourage the SF and all other parties to take an active part in the process of the Rural and Islands Committee. It is the Social Democrats' ambition that the work on the report should reflect the attitude to support rural areas, which is also contained in the SF proposal that we are discussing here today. The Socialists cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor. And then I have promised to add that the rapporteur of the Radicals cannot be here today and that the Radicals cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170308	There is just one brief comment. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170312	Surely we can hold another hearing, but with all due respect, this is an area that has been relatively many hearings and discussions and committee work and reports on and such things. But I can hear from the water pipes that there may not be a majority in favour of this proposal, and then you have to thank me with another hearing. I do not know if it will conclude anything entirely new from the other times. But I would like to ask the rapporteur that the rapporteur is now the rapporteur of a party which has a large, if not one of the largest, lot in the history of the workers' movement, so to speak. And over the years, workers' homes and everything else have been built to ensure conditions, some housing for the people who had to work somewhere, because of it was there, the factory lay, or for other geographical reasons. There they went in and subsidised because there was to be cheap housing. And cheap housing is also something that has been heard a great deal about here in the capital, without having achieved such a goal, one can say. Does the rapporteur think that there is something fundamentally wrong with state support for people to live throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170434	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. Now the questioner is aware that I am quite newly elected, so I must also be allowed to have my hearings, and of course I will look forward to them. I'm kidding. In fact, unlike in the end, there is now a report containing some specific recommendations, which are also supported by the Joint Council of Rural Regions. And these are the specific recommendations, for example, to relax the availability requirements in certain parts of the country and also the idea of specifying the six-month rule which, according to the committee, has helped some banks to be too restrictive, some mortgage credit institutions have been too restrictive. So there are, of course, some relatively specific recommendations here, which I think we should continue to work on. That is why I am hoping that the hearing in which I am allowed to take part will not be completely fruitless. Then there was a specific question as to whether I am opposed in principle to supporting housing forms. I can hardly say that I am opposed in principle, according to the position of the Social Democratic Party also in the workers' movement. However, I would like to make it clear that the Social Democrats do not want to go down the road of state bank or state support for mortgage bond series. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170548	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170551	Okay, that's social democracy policy. Will the rapporteur, in one or two lines, explain why the Social Democrats cannot support this in the course of the rapporteur's speech? Perhaps then I can focus on how we can change the proposal a little so that we can get the support of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170613	Well, as I said, we would very much like to continue to work on supporting the opportunities also in rural areas in the sparsely populated areas. If we are not in favour of setting up a proper state bank, it is firstly because a state bank can distort competition, and secondly because we fear that the state will rush into an area with which the State has limited experience, and we believe that this would be inappropriate. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170643	There is another one with a brief comment. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170647	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech and the great interest in rural areas. I am very pleased when you look back at the last period, when the rapporteur's party itself had the power of government and had a rural minister, but unfortunately, the rural minister never had a real bill for rural areas, and many of us regret that. However, we welcome the fact that the rapporteur will support consultations. It's fine. We have had many hearings and commissions and need action, but of course we can take another round. I am in favour of this. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is this: if action is to be taken behind words, it is of course interesting in a debate like this to know how much money the rapporteur's party, the Socialists, has set aside for the rural finance legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170740	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Thomas Danielsen supports the possibility of conducting a hearing, all the time that we are in the same subgroup of the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands, the working group which will be conducting the hearing that we are talking about here. Then I would also like to say that I think it is a little mistaken to compare the work that is going on now, the consultation that we need to carry out with consultations that have been held in the past, because we now have recommendations specifically from the committee, which we can continue to work on. And these are the recommendations that we must have translated into real action, and I shall look forward to doing so in committee in good cooperation with Mr Beazley. Thomas Danielsen. And, of course, this is not yet another issue that is relevant to the financial law negotiations. Now it is about translating the recommendations contained in the working group and in the report that we both know.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170836	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170839	Thank you. Yes, I quite rightly commend initiatives to support and expand our knowledge of this area. So I fully support that. What I really wanted to hear from the rapporteur is this: if you really have a heart that is beating for rural areas and I believe that the rapporteur has done so, it is nevertheless quite essential how much money you really want to give priority to rural areas in order to support this area, then the rapporteur can reveal how much money you have given priority to the rural area finance legislation? Because until now, I haven't been able to spot anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170920	Well, I can confirm to the rapporteur that my heart is beating for rural areas. I was born and raised in West Jutland, elected in Southern Denmark, and have lived in sparsely populated areas all my life. So I can guarantee that I am very concerned about that. I understand that the rapporteur wants to turn this into a financial law debate. It's not. In concrete terms, this is about addressing the recommendations of the Michael Møller report and then getting them translated, and I look forward to doing so jointly with the questioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170947	There is another one with a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112170952	I would just like to comment on the rapporteur's reply to Mr Seligman's question. Thomas Danielsen's question, in which the rapporteur is mentioned, is that the report gives rise to some initiatives. Does the rapporteur really think so? Yes, of course I have to assume that when the rapporteur has said so. But what exactly is the point of the report, because I am reading the report in another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171014	I'm gonna share sir. Henning Hyllested's perception that it's not a revolution you're witnessing when you read the report. However, I must make it clear that the report has a partial conclusion. It points out that there are non-financial reasons for the problems in rural areas and points out that there are certain financial reasons for problems in rural areas. So there is no clear conclusion, and I think the questioner is also aware of that. What is specifically pointed out in the report is, among other things, to relax the requirements for the amount of availability in certain parts of the country, and it is about the cheaper to go to the butcher and go to the supermarket in Tønder than it is at Østerbro. The difference between the parts of the country must, of course, be reflected in the amount of funds that banks and mortgage institutions require when they want to borrow for a dwelling. This is one of the concrete initiatives in the report that I think we should continue to work on. In addition, the report also points out that there may be a need to clarify the six-month rule. In addition, I also think that the report suggests that we now have a debate on real initiatives in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands, but there is something else that can be done, and we can do so in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171135	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171138	It is true with the amount of available funds and with the six-month rule, but it is probably an over-interpretation of the report to say that, like the conclusion, it can be done here that something really needs to be done in relation to rural areas. On the contrary, I think that there are a great many reservations in the report which say that, of course, you can and maybe it can help. Isn't that what the report says?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171208	I think we're out to decimals here, in terms of how we perceive the report. Let me go somewhere else. After all, I have been elected in Southern Denmark and as a candidate I have received quite a lot of inquiries from people who have not been able to access mortgage loans, and it is in fact my view that this type of approach has been reduced over the last few months. So I believe that the problem may be a little on the back. Having said that, I still feel that we have a problem, and I think that we should continue to work on the recommendations contained in the report, and then we will see if more proposals can be put forward in committee. For example, I could perhaps imagine that the committee is taking the initiative to ask mortgage banks to provide biannual statistical material to the Folketing so that we can follow this area very, very closely. As I have said, this concerns me, and it will also reflect my attitude and that of the Social Democrats towards the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171311	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171321	Thank you. The proposal here is an unchanged re-submission of B 33, which the SF made in the spring. If you cannot get the proposal through with the government to which you are a support party, then it will be much better for whoever you are in opposition to. I admire the SF for their optimism. As I said, the last time we dealt with this, I have great sympathy that SF is willing to act on the issue that we are experiencing. Those people who want to settle out there, where it is most beautiful, and have a sensible economy, despite that, cannot get loans for property. Countless are the examples I have of how often mortgage banks reject people with a valid economy: No, unfortunately you cannot borrow 1 million. kr. for a house in that rural area, but if you're buying a house in town instead, we'd like to lend you 3 million. kr. I have plenty of such examples. They themselves say that the refusals are given because they must be able to sell the house again quickly and they assess the possibility of it. It is as if it is a very remote idea for mortgage banks that those who buy houses in rural areas and islands do, in fact, because they want to live there and not because they are residential speculators who are going to sell the house immediately again. I think they might have found another place to invest. Nevertheless, they are treated this way. The citizens who are exposed to this, the mortgage banks and the FSA seem to have three different views on what the problem is and whether there is a problem at all. That is why, in the committee of the previous government, we set up a group of experts which we asked to deal with a number of issues that we have encountered in relation to lending in the outermost regions, as well as some proposals for solutions. I have to admit, therefore, that I am not as enthusiastic about the report that the previous speaker has just said, to put it mildly, that it is useless. These were a number of excuses for why the problem could not be solved or why the problem of lack of lending would not be solved. Then we agreed in committee to call for a hearing based on the report, because now we have to move on. Action must be taken. In the opinion of the Danish People's Party, the hearing should lead to concrete solutions. We need to look at the FSA's guidance, at the six-month rule in relation to the bedtime and at the mortgage on the 80%. These are all the same areas where we could help the citizens well by adjusting them a little. The Danish People's Party believes that state-guaranteed loans or even worse state-funded loans should definitely be seen as the very last resort if everything else has been tested and failed. And we have not tried the other solutions at all yet; we have far from exhausted all the possibilities. In the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands, we have the parties between very good and close cooperation. We are good at solving the problems together, and fortunately we all want to do the same, namely that we want the best for rural areas and islands. I would like to invite the SF to come to the meetings, to be active in the Rural Committee and to become part of the team we are, and then we would very much like to find solutions with the SF to this problem, which we all agree should be resolved immediately. But let us now do so on the basis of the free opportunities we have, which we have not yet taken full advantage of. The Danish People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171701	There is just one brief comment, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171704	I'd like to start by signing for those nice words. I did not really expect to get DF's support this time either, despite all the fine declarations of intent that we should do something for rural areas, etc. I would say that I have lived half my life in South Jutland and the other half in North Jutland, so I am so double outstretched, some would say. So there are real problems with funding, and then Mrs Hjermind Dencker can talk about processes, good proposals and so on, but nothing is happening, and that is why we are retabling this resolution. It is, of course, because even the mortgage council says that merely looking at the six-month lay-off rule will not do anything about the problem. So what are some very specific solutions that need to be found? I just can't hear that from DF's rapporteur. Then I would say that I have eight other committees to look after, but I am the business rapporteur, and this is a matter for the Minister of Industry, so it is from this that I am focusing on this. But I would say that Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker's DF colleagues during the election campaign in North Jutland thought it was a really, really nice idea, and then came the famous but. So I would just like Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker to say very precisely: what are we going to do to solve the mortgage issue in rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171827	I don't think I have time to list that at all, but I'll try as best I can. It is often the case that mortgage banks either agree to give full funding of 80%, or they say no. Then we can be creative and ask ourselves the question: could we not imagine that there could be something between 80% and 80%? And no? What if they could say: we do not dare to provide 80% funding, but we would like to give 60%. 40% or 40%.? So the idea of opening up much more that there could be something between the two, we could of course start implementing with them, and we could do so in the way that they simply had to report in to us half-yearly, how many loans of 20, 40, 60%. etc. they had given. That could be an option. In relation to the FSA's recommendations that in order to lend to a house, after tax and after the housing costs have been paid, you must have DKr 13,000. available, it must be said that when you have to borrow 500,000-600,000 kroner. For a house, it's not necessary. So there we could imagine going much more to the bite than to say to the FSA: This is about how valid your economy is. You can make 1 million. kr. a year and have a miserable economy and owe away a lot, and then you can be a cash recipient and have a reasonable economy and never have owed a penny. I guess it's about how good you are at maintaining your loans. These were just some of the suggestions I had time to mention. I'd like to come back with more.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112171958	The rapporteur for a brief remark has to be brief.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172001	I agree that we need to have a look at the amount of available money, and I think most people actually agree on that, because that is quite crazy. However, with regard to some of the other points raised by the rapporteur, i.e. that we should report in, that there should be special rules and so on, I do not really see that they are so far from what I am proposing on behalf of the SF. For what we are proposing is not one square solution: let's just look at whether there are other ways to do it, whether there are places where there might be a very long lay time. If the interest rate was a little bit higher, so it reflected that risk, then people would still be able to get these loans. It is not because the interest rate is very high out there; most people can afford to pay 0.5 per cent. more so they can get the loan that makes them get that house.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172055	If what I proposed is not very far from what the SF is proposing, then I regret that I have not been good enough to read it, because I actually believe that in what I read there was something with state-funded and state-guaranteed loans, and that is where I think we are very far apart. But if we are not further apart from each other than that we can easily agree to sit together and ask if there are any other ways we can do this, then I would say that I promise that this is also the tradition in committee. I have great respect for the fact that there is other work to be done, but in the committee we actually have a tradition that we sit together and try to find solutions together. We would really like that, and we would also like to have SF with us. So let us continue with this, because we all agree that action must be taken and that it must be now, and it will not be better if we wait. So we'd like to cooperate with the SF on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172148	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr President. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172158	Thank you for that, President. First of all, the position of the Left in this re-submission is the same as the first time we discussed the proposal, which means that we cannot support B 12. However, I would like to commend the SF for raising the debate. This is a very important and crucial debate. We have many challenges in rural areas, and I am therefore pleased that the SF here signals that it is prepared to engage constructively in raising and solving more of these challenges. It goes without saying that the creation of state banks is not a policy that we in the Left can support, nor are state-aided schemes. The SF rapporteur mentioned earlier in the debate that agricultural schemes have been set up. That, for example. This is a system which is offered to an entire sector so that there is no distortion. Here, if you make this scheme, you will split up Denmark, so some in rural areas have to have more expensive loans than they get elsewhere in the country, and that is of course not appropriate. It is becoming more expensive because state loans are not allowed under the EU's competition rules, which is why this cannot be done at all. What is happening in agriculture is that you pay a risk contribution so that it is self-financing. This means that it is not contrary to EU competition rules when it is self-financing. However, it must be accepted that it is expensive. We do not want it to be more expensive to borrow in rural areas than it is in cities. There are two areas that have been discussed so far on the basis of the report that lies in relation to some of these challenges with funding. It is time to lay down, and that is the amount of money available. I am delighted that in his speech the Minister stressed that this is one of the things that we naturally have a duty to look at. In addition, the prerequisite for converting houses and lending houses is a growth in rural areas, and there the government has taken some initiatives. So far, for example, we have. presented to us the large historical large, one might even say • relocation plan for state jobs, where we shift the number of government employees in the Capital Region, which is of course almost 50 per cent. There we are taking a very big step in the right direction. In addition, it has already been launched, also in line with the Minister's speech, that we can look forward to the liberalisation of the law on plans. It is clear that it is essential for the willingness to lend in rural areas to liberalise the law on plans. In many parts of our rural areas there is simply a politically determined rule that only fishing, agriculture and forestry can be carried on, and it goes without saying that lending to a property where only three types of activity can be pursued is of course very small. Therefore, we can take a wide range of initiatives to enable other companies to get into those premises and succeed, to hire employees, to do everything we forbid today, because as soon as a company starts up in, for example, a company starts up in. a land zone or coastal proximity zone and will be successful and start hiring employees, so we are forced to relocate it today to an industrial area in the larger cities. It has two boring consequences. On the one hand, the company is unable to consolidate itself, and on the other hand, the employees are forced to relocate in the long term. In this way, we are missing the transferability of the properties in rural areas. And, of course, it is essential that we do not put down politically these barriers to the willingness to lend in rural areas. These must be my opening words and, of course, I am prepared to answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172609	There is one more brief remark. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172612	Yeah, you're all coming through the mill! After all, the debate is going to be somewhat wider, and that is actually fine, because it is all about our country hanging together, and there are a lot of people who do not live in the countryside because they have to, but because they think it is beautiful and lovely, and they also need to have something to live in. We will then be talking a little bit more about growth, jobs, etc., and I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: when you have so much focus on the 3,900 state jobs that the Left is planning to move out, which I think is fine and at the same time has a policy that costs 11,000 municipal jobs, how is it related? You give almost 4,000 with one hand and you take 11,000 with the other hand. If it's about municipal and state jobs out there, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172708	I would like to start by correcting the rapporteur, because many people live in rural areas or rural areas, not only because it is beautiful and beautiful, but simply because it is attractive. You get more air in your budgets than you get air around you. You can actually live a life much more in the raceway if we compare rental prices and house prices etc., which means that you can actually rent a sports car and go on vacation several times a year just by savings. So it's just to tell SF that there are many others living in rural areas than those running around with a Fjällräv on their backs and a binocular around their necks and looking at birds. In addition, the rapporteur asked how our policy is related when we run a well-run public sector and make it more efficient and at the same time relocate state jobs. This is very well linked to the fact that we want to create more growth in rural areas. The reason why we are moving out all the state jobs is because many young people, especially the newly educated, feel forced to move to university towns, because that is where the state is clearly proposing the most jobs, mainly the Capital Region, where there is this very uneven development of growth historically. That is why we take the most ambitious relocation initiative that has ever been seen and actually relocate more than 4 000 government jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172830	The Asker for Second Short
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172833	The rapporteur does not need to correct me. I have lived almost all my life in South Jutland and North Jutland. I also have a Fjällräv, but that's what we get when we join the SF. There are many reasons why people live out there, and one of the reasons is that there is a primary school, that there are jobs, including municipal jobs. That is why I simply think that this was the strangest explanation I received from the rapporteur for why it was a huge effort to place 4 000 state jobs, and it really has nothing to do with the fact that 11 000 municipal jobs are then taken at the same time. But let's just leave it alone. Does the rapporteur think that something could be changed about this resolution? I keep hearing words like a state bank and a state mortgage institution, etc. Well, it's not necessarily. It says that we must support the possibility of lending to those who have a healthy economy. Is there any way this proposal could be amended so that the Left could support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112172940	As a prerequisite for us to be able to support this proposal, everything called state aid and state funding must be removed. What is important is that, of course, some discussions can easily be held with the financial sector, also committing the financial sector to a larger supply gap, and this is also the case with the banks in this case. Of course, we are not opposed to this, but what is crucial when we have to secure the primary school, the merchant and everything else we have to do is the paradox that we can take a large number of initiatives politically as a demolition pool, and what I know, but what is basically crucial to ensuring that there is a transferability in the houses is whether there are some local jobs, because then everything that is connected with an attractive area to live in, such as association, the merchant, the school and everything else we regard as important for an area in which we will live.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173043	I have one more for a brief remark. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173047	I am fully in favour of the Liberalist idea being hailed in the Left, and I am also fully in favour of the fact that the Confederal Group of the Left currently consists of some superliberals, I believe. But there are other members of the Left. There's the backland of the Left in the form of mayors and something like that. Does it make no impression at all when the Rural Council actually speaks in the same direction as the SF's proposal? Or when Martin Damm, who, apart from being mayor of Kalundborg, is also president of KL, says that the market does not work if two people with an ordinary income cannot be allowed to borrow to buy a house, because it is located in a particular postal code district, by the way, a relatively cheap house, as he says, or the mayor of Aabenraa, Thomas Andresen, who says that if we let the market decide only, then there will be too large areas of our country that simply will not be populated. That is a slightly different view from that expressed in the parliamentary group and, at least, by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173157-2	The Rural Council has pointed out several times that they do not relate to law. They are just interested in having some initiatives taken that promote positive rural development and they are positive in looking at all the initiatives. It is a non-political organisation, so it is also quite appropriate that they do not sit and assess the legal aspects of these things. Then the rapporteur mentions bourgeois mayors who say that the market is not working. I do not entirely agree with that, because the result is precisely that the market is working. There are parts of Denmark where lending is very difficult to obtain, and this is precisely the result of the fact that the market works because we have neglected certain parts of the country for a number of years from Christiansborg's side in the development we have decided politically. That is precisely why it shows that the market is working, and that is why I welcome the fact that we now have a government which is already launching positive measures at rocket speed for positive rural development. I hope, of course, that Enhedslisten also supports this. At any rate, I know that the Enhedslisten has a rural rapporteur who wants all the best for rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173322	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173323	That's right. That's what Enhedslisten has. But that's actually true when mr. Thomas Danielsen says yes, the market works. Indeed, it is true that it can be said that the market works in such a way that it means that there are some people who, in fact, do not have market conditions around the country. And what do you do when you are a liberalist and you pay tribute to the market when the market opposes the policy you are actually trying to implement, namely growth and jobs in the outermost regions? When the market then pulls the other way, do you not have to go in and regulate the market? After all, is it not part of the liberal ideology, at least in the case of some of those who salute it, that then we must regulate the market so as to determine politically how the development takes place in the outermost regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173423	The reason why the market does not work optimally in all parts of the country is, of course, precisely the politically specific restrictions we have decided must be imposed on these areas. It goes without saying that, since we have decided that there are areas where, as I mentioned earlier, nothing else can be done but agriculture, forestry and fisheries, we are obviously weakening the marketability because we have politically decided in those areas to weaken market forces, weakening the opportunities that exist in those areas. So a large number of the barriers that exist in rural areas are basically based on the fact that we have collected almost half of the state jobs in the Capital Region, that we have deprived many rural areas of many of the opportunities for growth and enterprise, and that is what we saw with a new political majority here after the elections very much wants to take a stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112173533	The Enhedslisten certainly sympathises with this proposal, and although it is a re-submission, it is, after all, the continuation of a long debate on the financing of housing and small businesses in the outermost regions. This is a debate which led to the adoption by the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands on 17 December last year of a report which agreed to set up a broad committee of experts to look at this issue. However, it was not without some regret on the part of Enhedslisten and probably also the SF, as the other parties were, as it were, excluded at the last minute the possibility of looking at some form of state funding in the mandate. The Enhedslisten and the SF therefore had to add their own comments to the report that we considered it necessary, as we put it at the time, for state intervention to solve the problems of funding in the outermost regions. It could have been nice if one had complied with Enhedslisten and SF's wish then and had included it in that report, i.e. what might be of barriers etc. etc. About State funding. We are excluded from doing so, we excluded the experts from looking at it, and I think it is a pity that we are missing it today. However, it was included in the Terms of Reference that the Committee should analyse and explain, as stated, relevant legislation and experience in other countries, including with the Husbanken in Norway and the Housing Financing Fund in Iceland. It always tastes a bit like bird. The committee then recently bartered with its report and, as is expected, the conclusion is that there is virtually no problem, that everything is basically as it should be. Yes, there may be some regulation on the amount available and perhaps also on the time of lay, but there is no more to be done. This is very badly in line with the many inquiries we get from people out there about specific problems with loan financing. The fact is that the highly-sung market is not working, or rather, as I had to make clear to Mr Beazley. Thomas Danielsen that the problem cannot be solved on market conditions that need other means. Whether you pipe or sing, the means to be used is a public solution, a state involvement in crediting in our outlying districts. That, in our view, is perhaps the weakness of the SF proposal. It's a little loose in the contours. The state only has to enter with a certain amount of loss coverage or a grant for the interest rate but okay. The Enhedslisten has put forward proposals in our financial bill, as we promised, for a genuine rural bank, a state money and credit institution, which will be responsible for lending in rural areas to the extent that private financial institutions do not want to. We are, of course, inspired by the Norwegian Husbanken and the Icelandic Housing Financing Fund... not least Husbanken in Norway. In both countries, these credit institutions grant loans and subsidies on the basis of criteria of distribution of different kinds. The report from the Committee on Rural Finance also reads in Husbanken's Annual Report for 2013: This improves housing standards and housing distribution, even in parts of the country where private credit institutions do not give priority. In other words, if we want a certain development, for example. more settlements and more small businesses in the outermost regions... a development that the market cannot meet... then we, the community, must step in instead of allowing ourselves to stand up and make us, if I may say so, passive viewers of a development that we do not want. There we find it strange that not least the ruling party of the Left, which would otherwise like to appear as a party that takes care of the outermost regions, is so united and market-fundamentalist that one refuses to let the state play a role in financing, since the market cannot complete the task. As I have mentioned in my questions, there is much support for the proposal on state aid for a special mortgage from the Joint Council of Rural Regions, which among other things. count a large number of municipalities • I think it is approx. 40 of its members, including approx. 25 with a Left Mayor in the lead. Allow me to quote what Martin Damm, Mayor of Kalundborg and Chairman of KL say: "There are ordinary families with two incomes who in some postal numbers find it difficult to obtain loans for an otherwise relatively cheap house. And then the market doesn't work... The mayor of Aabenraa, Thomas Andresen, also leftman, says: "An extraordinary situation requires extraordinary action. If we only let the market decide, then there will be too large areas of our country that simply will not be populated...... After all, these are rather manly words, I think. And I do not think that Martin Damm or Thomas Andresen or, for that matter, Steffen Damsgaard, who is the chairman of the Rural Council, can be accused of having socialist tendencies. But they are practitioners who know that there is a problem that needs to be solved if we are to ensure a Denmark in balance, as it is called, a country that does not break over.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174035	There is one more brief remark. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174037	I would just like to thank you very briefly for those nice words. And that there should be a minor difference between Enhedslisten's and SF's proposals should not prevent anything. We would like to support the Enhedslisten, and that is also why our proposal is formulated relatively loosely, in other words because it should not depend on the fact that it alone should be something that the SF defines, but that it should be a form of funding that can help those who want to buy housing in rural areas. So we would also very much like to support any proposals from the Enhedslisten. I don't want it to depend on it. The end justifies the means.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174115	Well, of course I am pleased, and if any doubt arose from my rapporteur's speech that we support the SF's proposals, then it is doubtful about this. Of course we do. We think it is a little loose, as I said, and we would have liked to have tightened it a little, we are hardcore socialists, but any step along the way, if I may say so, is fine. That is not so much what it is about; it is not the red tab that has to be hoisted over the mortgage here, certainly not. However, we have a very specific problem with funding in our outermost regions, which means that many do not have the opportunity to settle out there or run small businesses out there. We want to help solve this problem. It does not necessarily require socialist solutions • we believe that a state involvement will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174157	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174200	Now we turned down the rhetoric in the proposal so that it would not at least be an excuse for the blue block to say that with a socialist state bank and such a thing they would certainly not touch with a fang, and instead we have tried to formulate something that everyone might see could be a completely pragmatic way of getting better conditions for homeowners in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174226	Yes, but I certainly understand, let us just call it the tactical considerations that have been taken in relation to the wording of the proposal. We fully understand that, no doubt about it. I still want to say that we support the motion for a resolution and we certainly do. I do not think I have been able to listen to the parties so far that it has helped. I still think there is a rejection from everyone but us. Yes, we have not heard all the parties yet, I have to say, but I think I can foresee it. I'm excited to hear what the alternative has to say. They were not there when the latter was discussed, as I recall, but voted in favour of it, as far as I remember. Okay, the dice are tossed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174321	Thank you. If one has respect for objective arguments, one cannot disagree with the premise for motion for a resolution B 12, that is to say that Denmark is developing in a skewed direction. In eastern Jutland and eastern Zealand, the population is growing and there is good economic growth. In other parts of the country there is a struggle with depopulation; there is weak or no economic growth, and therefore there is a weak housing market. Similarly, the proposers are also right that a very important part of the development is due to urbanisation. It's a trend that's been going on since the 1800s. And in addition to the things I have already said to the authors of the motion, I must also agree with the premise that the Folketing will probably not be able to change the urbanisation mechanism itself. But it makes political sense to ask: should the Folketing try to mitigate the negative effects that urbanisation has on the many people who are not taken on board and who, in other words, are living in smaller towns or in rural areas? Because there is a weakening of the population, which indirectly leads to a reduction in public service sometimes and a weakening of markets, among other things. the housing market. There is the basic answer from the Liberal Alliance to a certain extent uliberally, at least if one has a caricature of what liberalism is, namely the caricature that the state should not relate to the lives of its citizens at all. But it's a caricature. In a liberal approach, the state must ensure that citizens can unfold freely and safely and that everyone is equal. And in the efforts to ensure that citizens have equal access to public services and can participate in different markets, it is therefore appropriate for the state to play a certain active role. If we cannot then support motion for a resolution B 12 in the Liberal Alliance, it is because we disagree with what was said just now by the Socialist People's Party that the end justifies the means. The end does not justify the means. There is nothing wrong with the objective of this proposal, but the means chosen, namely that the state is actively involved in housing financing, is an unfortunate means. So the proposal has a noble intention, and we fully recognise that, but the means have so many disadvantages that it is not advisable to use it. Here I would like to say, as a comment on several of the speeches that have been made, that it seems as if the risk of the state entering the credit market is simply underestimated. So what are these risks? After all, the State will incur a very significant risk of loss because the scheme is aimed at taking exposures which private mortgage institutions will not touch. The state will contribute to distorting the credit market because it is planned to subsidise interest rates and then the problem will not be solved. For the Danish Parliament must set a financial framework, and that is why everyone will not be able to benefit from this system, because the realm always lacks money and we are currently arguing in the Danish Parliament about the financial framework for soon said anything. So the leprechaun is going to move in anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. I would just like to remind you that short remarks are one minute and one and a half minutes respectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174716	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur for a rather sober speech, I think, and I did not expect any support for the bill from that edge either. But I think it was really sober with some good considerations, and that is why I also have this completely non-oletical and purely fundamental question of the role of the state: does the rapporteur think that it is a problem that, with state funds, for example, we should use state funds? through funds and other, supporting industry, regional development, etc. In the country? Is that a fundamental problem? If it is not, if it depends on the specific case, why is it not a good idea in this case, based on the opinion of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174804	There can be no free market or an economy or anything if there is no state. There must be law and law and regulated conditions, and there must be infrastructure, etc. So, of course, the state plays an active role in enabling us to have a market. What is important is to organise things in such a way as not to distort the economy, for example. a distortion of the credit market or a distortion elsewhere. Then there is also a problem if you take on very large financial risks. Unfortunately, I am going to repeat myself, but just to round off, I would say that I think that many who have spoken out in favour of a state bank or arrangement of some kind simply underestimate the risk that the state can get a mortgage on very large amounts of properties that are impossible to get rid of and thus assume a high risk of loss.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174858	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174900	[Sound emission]... after 2008. So you can at least say nothing more than that the Left and, in part, the Liberal Alliance have a good hand in the jar when it comes to state support for all sorts of things. That is why I just want to try again to hear the rapporteur: should we not, in the eyes of the Liberal Alliance, in the best of all worlds, financially support industry or regional development in this country? It's really not polemical. I'm just curious.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112174941	The key word is selective, because when you support selectively, you distort. After all, the state engages in many possible ways with road construction and in making things work at all. There are no problems in this, but when selective schemes are made, they have a distorting effect and they are often very damaging to the overall functioning of the economy. So yes to general arrangements. But selective schemes are dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175012	The next short remark is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175017	I would also like to thank you for a very well-balanced and sober speech. The rapporteur warns against selective schemes, but if it is only part of the market that does not work, namely credit in the outermost regions, then it is necessary to proceed selectively if it is to be considered that the market is not working there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175050-2	As I understand the proposal, it is not, of course, a question of fully replacing the existing mortgage market with a state mortgage market. It is a question of supplementing some situations, and the most obvious thing to imagine is that it will be the most dangerous financial commitments, which will be the ones that the state will have to face. And I would like to warn you about the fact that the state is going to have some very risky financial commitments. One cannot quite compare the situation, but I would like to remind you that one of the things that triggered the financial crisis in 2008 was the failure of the US Government to create a housing market where there was no economic basis for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175141	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mr President. Nikolai Amstrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175156	Thank you very much. Now there are quite a few of the other rapporteurs who have spent time up here uncovering what the SF's proposal here is about, so I will not do that. When you talk about development in the outermost regions or in rural municipalities, whatever you call it, there may be a tendency to focus on the lighthouses, on the large investments and the big investors. Fortunately, SF has a different focus in this resolution, and we agree with that as a starting point in the alternative. Before we can talk about the big, chromed projects and the big investments, we need to make it possible to build and live for the people who have already chosen to live in these areas. It is about us Danes being able to settle, where we will also be outside the big cities. There are many ways to do this, and making it possible for those people and companies who want to buy real estate in the outermost regions but are rejected by mortgage banks is one of them, and that is one of the important ones. If we want to lift Denmark as a whole and secure strong local areas, it must be created by local communities and fire-souls, but that means that the people who are going to drive that development must have the opportunity to build and live where they want it. As I said, there are several ways of doing this, and this proposal includes the construction of a completely new mortgage institution. In the alternative, we would prefer to support the existing mortgage credit system, in other words to create better opportunities for borrowing through it, which is why we cannot, as a starting point, support the proposal as it stands. But we would very much like to discuss further with both the SF and the other parties what actions could point in that direction. Now I will look up from the paper and refer to some of the things that have been said by the rapporteurs in the past. The Morten Møller report rightly points out that something can be done in relation to the rest time and that something can be done in relation to the amount available. And that's also correct, but we don't know if that's enough. That is why it might be interesting if we could try in committee to point out that these things are the first things to be done, but if they do not work as intended, we could perhaps shake hands with the fact that we have to do something more, and we will be very willing to do that in the alternative. We are concerned about finding solutions. Basically, we are in favour of the initiative and the proposal from the SF, but in exactly the form that has been put forward now, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175445	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175447	It is to the rapporteur's concluding remarks that we could start where everyone has been and say that we could start, with time and availability, etc. But with the final remarks made by the rapporteur that we want something more and we want to find some solutions, I have to ask: what more do we want? And what are these solutions? It would be nice if the rapporteur would reveal what we have been thinking about, because it is a bit out of hand just to say that it is a question of finding solutions. All honour and respect for the dialogue following the work of the committee, etc., but it might be nice to hear whether the alternative has any solutions, they will knock on the table and then we can take a position on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175541	Thank you very much, sir. Henning Hylllested. If we had a solution to this problem, it is clear that then there was nothing we would rather do than present it. I must also say that, like many other parties, we do not have a deep-rooted ideological opposition to state intervention. We would very much like some other things to work out, which is why I think it is very important that we first clarify the things that have been proposed and that have the opportunity to be implemented, at least as I could hear from the other rapporteurs, that we find out whether these actions are working and if they do not work, what we should do. No, I don't have a solution, but I'm not, and the alternative isn't, determined that the state shouldn't be involved anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175634	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175637	As far as lay times and available amounts are concerned, as I have already pointed out in this Chamber, the report itself, as I read it, makes some serious reservations as to how much it really helps. So I dare venture one eye and say to the rapporteur: it does not help, or it helps very little, and it certainly does not solve the problem at all. That's why I'm asking, what's up? As I say, the SF has come up with an excellent and sympathetic offer we would like to go further, but it is bad now, and that is what we, like, are discussing on the basis of. That is why I am calling for what the alternative could offer, when you stand and say from the platform that the SF's proposals will not be voted in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175728	As we say: the SF's proposal as it is now before us is not something we want to vote for. We want to explore other options before. I think it will also make the discussion in committee different at a later stage, that the very things that have been talked about have been tested and we have seen whether they work. But we don't have any chrome-plated solution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175754	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175757	Now I was largely covered by my colleague from the Enhedslisten, because what I heard in the rapporteur's speech was an indication that, as the proposal stands, the alternative cannot vote for it, but that some amendments might be tabled. I would just like to say that, in order to get as much support as possible, I have also said that to some of the other rapporteurs, we are very susceptible to amendments. It depends, of course, on what they look like, but we would very much like to see whether we can find solutions that go a little further than the report. My colleague is quite right, of course, that this is probably not enough. But now I heard the rapporteur say that these proposals are not there, that they are something we have to look at and so on. However, if it should appear before we vote at the third reading, I hope to see amendments. Then we shall also look at it without prejudice from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175855	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I should like to say that motions for resolutions will only be put to the second reading. But Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen knows that very well, so it was just an enlightenment to everyone else. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175906	I would also like us to find a solution to this, and I also know that the committee wants to examine broadly whether the conclusions reached in the report are in fact valid. And there I think we should go further in that discussion before we can make more proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175933	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen? There are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112175959	It is also a great pleasure to have the President in the Chair in relation to this specific subject, because if anyone knows what the conditions are for having the good life, including in rural areas, then it is the President. Thank you for that, but I am not allowed to take part in the debate here. ) No, but it was also only a comment on my part. The reason I have retabled this proposal on behalf of the SF is that, since it was put forward for the first time, there has been an election campaign where this has also been a subject. I think it has been discussed everywhere, at least very much in North Jutland, where during the election campaign we also went out with TV 2/Nord and visit this Sparbugsman who had a healthy business. He wanted to expand, and it went really, really well, and he just couldn't get any money for it. He is fairly well known in North Jutland precisely in connection with this case, and now it has ended up happy. But it is just a star example of the fact that in Øster Brønderslev there is actually also growth, that there is also a merchant who earns money, who wants to expand his business and who wants to hire more people, but only because his business is in a black spot on the map, he has not been able to obtain funding. He's got that anyway. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of stories out there where people say you can get a really nice house for less than 1 million. kr. But that is how our small country is arranged, depending on where you look, and it is unfair, and it is also a market error. Now, of course, we have discussed the market and state interference and so on. In other words, it is also distorting when you give SU loans to students so that they do not have to go to the bank and borrow at a market rate. We have plenty of funds, and we are putting a lot of state funds into everything, so in this way we have a mixed economy in this country, in which we support some things, because we think that the whole country will then be better connected, and at the same time we also have a lot of things going on under market conditions. And this proposal does not have to be adopted exactly as it is written. It has been deliberately formulated somewhat loosely, because there should also be room for some alternative proposals, some amendments, to do so, so we could do it in that way. It's just that today there are a lot of people living in many places in the country where you can't be allowed to borrow money because your house is too cheap, and because there are a lot of people who think that if you're only going to give 600,000 kroner. For a house, it's probably such a Lockby-Svendsen-like, dilapidated moan. But it's not like that. There's a lot of places in this country where you can have an excellent house to live in to pretty small money. And it can be said that market conditions do not work at all. Because you suddenly have a mortgage system which, at least in its infancy, was incredibly influenced by the state and incredibly infiltrated with both the rest of society, but also the state, and whose main task it should be to provide citizens with much cheaper mortgage than you could get on the completely unregulated market. So once again, when we all celebrate the mortgage system, perhaps it is more the romantic idea of what it was like once than what is happening today, where alternative lack of earnings from the banks with which they are affiliates must also be compensated. But it's a much longer discussion about our beloved mortgage system in this country. Denmark has developed more and more differently over many years, and it was also quite appropriate that there was a debate about it in the election campaign. The exciting debate is, of course, whether one should just stand by. If people want to move into the cities, should certain areas be artificially kept alive? And in this way we can also say: if there are so few people who want to settle on some island, then we have to pay for mail being delivered and there is Internet, etc.? And there's relatively much agreement in this country that we're compensating for market failures. We want people to also be able to live on a small island, even though it is not at all worth an operator setting up the Internet there or delivering packages and mail. And it's kind of funny that in this tiny country we still have such big challenges with it. But I think, and it seems to SF, that we should compensate for market failures, and right now there is a huge market error in relation to the financing of houses and apartments, etc. in much of this country. And it is a service to people who do not want to live in cities, that there are also schools and the Internet and that mail is provided and that there is funding for parts of the country where there is no market coverage for it. A Momentum study has been carried out which is approx. One year old, businesses in rural areas must fight hard to get loans, and here some questions have been asked to a number of business managers in these rural and peripheral municipalities, and I would just like to read from a few of the statistics: 76 per cent. In the last two years, business managers have become aware of prospective entrepreneurial projects in the municipality, where loans have been refused to start business. Half of the business managers are aware of existing economically sound companies which have been refused loans for new buildings or major investments. An overwhelming majority of business managers believe that refusals hamper local growth and development. Finally, eight out of ten business managers believe that banks and mortgage banks today have far too restrictive practices in relation to granting loans to businesses and entrepreneurs in rural areas and that the State should, in one way or another, ensure that loans are made easier. This is also in keeping with the opinion of the Joint Council of Rural Regions, which my colleague from the Enhedslisten has repeated many times, that is to say that there is a desire for state intervention because large parts of the country are becoming depopulated. There's a tight economy in the municipalities, and it's gotten even tighter with this government, and schools are being closed down and so on. On top of that, there is a practice where people can get tied up to places where they no longer want to live, because they can't get the sale they'd actually rather move to the next municipality, where they've got a job and it's also affecting growth. Or people simply cannot buy, even if they have a fine and good economy, and thus move to the tiny village where they want to live and where there is a job for them too. So it's a huge obstacle to development. I believe that when the Left says that they have ensured an historically large relocation of state jobs • 3,900 people • then it must be said that they also have a policy that, with a re-priority contribution in the municipalities, means that 11 000 jobs are lost. To give with one hand and to go with the other and then to say that this is a way of ensuring political growth and development does not hold one metre. But I'm glad that despite the late hour the parties of the Danish Parliament have actually treated this very well and soberly, and I hope it's not just talk, but that you also want to do something radically different to ensure a solution to this. What I hear from most people is that there's no support for this proposal... I might have had a tiny suspicion of that too, but I'm an optimistic person... but there's actually a great desire to solve this problem and not only by looking at the amount of time and availability, because it doesn't solve it completely. So I hope that, when we discuss this again in six months' time, some great things have happened and that the Minister has also put forward some things that go further than that and which are not only about hypermarkets or other things I know there will certainly be some things that the Minister knows that we from the SF are not so happy about • but also that we in the Folketing can find common ground to remedy the problem of financing housing. Because that is something that we should stand together about. So I would just like to thank you for the consideration of the proposal and, as I said, I would very much like to receive amendments if it could mean that some would support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181005	Thank you. There's one question. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181008	Thank you. I can at least confirm the latter that there are many of us who really want to solve this problem. In order to do so, we also need to look at the rather boring side that states that state-guaranteed loans and government-funded loans are not entirely free of charge. They cost something. On the other hand, however, I also feel that the SF is very fond of this proposal, and that is why, of course, I also assume that the SF is so enthusiastic about the proposal that it is also included in its financial law proposal. I would like to hear the rapporteur confirm that. If so, I would like to know how much the SF has devoted to the proposal in its financial law proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181049	Now I think the mood was so good, so I would rather not be too polemical and bring up such a thing that if the rapporteur had read the remarks on the motion for a resolution. So I would just like to read out in a very positive spirit what the comments on the motion for a resolution say... it is the second last and last stick if the rapporteur wants to take a look.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If the additional risk of lending in the outermost regions is small or zero, the additional interest rate will also be small or zero. This means, of course, that if there's an increased risk somewhere in this country by giving this loan, the interest rate will be a little higher. So in this way, it's a nice mix of government help and market terms, that's how it works, but there's a lot of people who have said: Well the general lending rate is so low that if we could just get this loan to our house and have to pay, for example. more, that is not the problem, because the interest rate is already so low, it is at all getting the loan. So any risk will be reflected, at least in the proposal we have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181214	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181217	Of course, when you have to cover a possible deficit, you also have to have something on the coffin floor to do with it. I've read the notes to the bill. I just couldn't see any amount of money. Clearly, you have to make an amount of money when you have to provide a guarantee for something. And that's why I'm asking SF: is this more than just a pip, or is SF so much in favour of it that SF could actually also point out a financial solution, i.e. putting money into its financial bill? And then I hear that the SF hasn't put any money in the budget bill for this proposal. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181301	After all, the funding reflects the potential risk that will arise in the additional interest rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181311	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151112181329	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 13 November 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
