ParlaMint-DK_20151218100020	The meeting is open. There is today the following review: Søren Espersen (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 12 (Will the Prime Minister explain the government's value policy, focusing on the challenges arising from immigration, which press/forces the Danes to change their way of life and behavior and correct immigration for the sake of immigrants?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: Report on access to the Committee's opinion on MFU issues. part. 1. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100056	The items listed as No. 6 and 16 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100112	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is one suggestion. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 12 by Mikkel Dencker (DF) and can be voted. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100201	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? That's it, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100233	Thank you very much. At second reading, a very good proposal was made by the Danish People's Party that the amendment tabled by Enhedslisten on a much better early retirement scheme should not enter into force until 1 January 2017. And the Danish People's Party announced that if it could come along, they would support our proposal. We are very grateful for this, and we have incorporated it into our amendment, so there is another small amendment that we are going to vote on now, which sets an entry into force date on 1 January 2017. With the support of the Danish People's Party for this amendment from the Enhedslisten, there is a whole new situation. Because if the Socialists want to, there is a majority in favour of the amendment that will then be voted into the law. That is why I am looking at the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but unfortunately the President is not here. I had planned a very intrusive look towards her, but unfortunately she is not here, so you must try to share the responsibility in this regard. I would like to ask the Socialist Parliamentary Group: is this not a unique opportunity to improve the conditions of the people, as the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, so warmly mentioned during the first reading of this bill. Let me quote a little from his rapporteur's speech, after a harsh criticism of the withdrawal reform, because it phases out the post-retirement wage and brings forward an increase in retirement age, says Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen: In other words, nothing has been found that resembles a solution for the hairdresser who has stood up and cut hair since she was 15 years old, for the suitcase dragon out in Kastrup, who has crawled around in hold and dragged on all the junk we drag home from the Øst since he was 17 years old, or for the SOSU helper who uses body and mind every day to give our grandparents some good last years. That's so nice of you to say! However, if the Socialists want to, we can now give these people the opportunity to have a more secure life than we can have if we have to live for years on cash benefits or without support, because we are too worn out to stay on the labour market until we can retire at 67 or 68 years of age or even later. So, dear Social Democrats, now is not the time for you to strike and implement Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's strong words for action? What would stand in the way of that? Is it possible to get an answer here from the platform, a explanatory statement if the Socialists intend to maintain the position set out in the report to vote against? I think the Socialists owe the hairdresser, the suitcase dragon and the SOSU helper and all the others who are worn out long before the time, a good explanation for that. I would like to address a similar appeal to the Socialist People's Party. Unfortunately, your President is not here. I was also going to lower my intrusive look deep in her eyes in this regard, but again I want to say: you must share responsibility. I would like to remind you of what the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge, said at first reading: "But we must also note that the senior early retirement pension has failed with the very few that have slipped through the eye of the needle. The SF proposes a new pension scheme or a thorough revision of the senior early retirement scheme, a pension scheme which specifically addresses the situation of each individual, education, the number of years in the labour market and possible physical wear and tear or mental burnout. That's so good of you to say! I recognise that our proposal does not take into account all the criteria, Mr President. Karsten Hønge mentions. I do not think that is necessary either. Our proposal relates to the central issue: improving the existing early retirement scheme so that it can actually be used for something for those who are physically or mentally worn out. SF emphasizes so often that they will not end up as Enhedslisten, as they like to call an all-or-nothing party. Here there is a proposal which does not contain everything SF would like to do, but which nevertheless represents a significant improvement in the senior early retirement scheme we have today. So I simply do not understand if the SF cannot support it. I am also still calling for an explanation that the SF, as a justification for voting against our amendments, feels bound by the withdrawal agreement. At first reading, we were told that this settlement is not binding on the SF, so how is it related? Dear Social Democrats and SFs, please reconsider your position on our amendments. Here is an opportunity to bring about a real improvement for many who cannot get stuck in the labour market, but must live for years on cash benefits or without support, while the old-age pension fades in an increasingly distant future. If the two parties maintain their rejection, then I hope they will go to the platform and explain themselves. I guess it's the least you can do for the people it's about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100742	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100752	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and voted. The vote is over. In favour 37 (DF, EL and ALT), against 68 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 3 (SF). The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100826	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? Sir. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100841	I should just like to express my regret that, when the amendments were voted on in relation to the retirement age of parliamentary politicians, we voted incorrectly last week. Every other time we have voted on it, the Liberal Alliance has, of course, voted in the way that we are also talking about the external issue, namely that we want equality between the retirement age of parliamentary politicians and the general retirement age. I should like to say from our country President, Mr Leif Mikkelsen, who has passed the 70 years, that this is no problem at all for him. Neither is it for the party in general. So we're sorry about the mistake that happened there. Of course, we have set up at least three commissions to investigate how things could go so terribly wrong for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100928	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218100930	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101005	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101024	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101053	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101110	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The proposal has been adopted and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101143	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101214	Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101233	Basically, Enhedslisten has been in favour of giving these opportunities to the municipalities for exemption from land tax. In the course of the legislative process, it has gone from dealing with land affected by coastal degradation to including land covered by the recall clause and associated amended planning basis. We think that these are a little new things, one might say that suddenly gets involved in this bill, and we have raised a number of questions about how many reasons there are for recall clauses and what the consequences may be, and we have got the answer that you do not know that. We think this is a piece of legislation and we have therefore tried to divide the proposal, but it has been insisted on getting something completely different into the draft law along the way and we think it should have been in consultation. It may be that somebody gets some prize that was not intended, and it may also be that somebody might be, you might say, covered by the law, but who is not, because it is not sent out for consultation. That is why we cannot support the amendments that have been tabled. The first amendment is, in fact, simply about whether it should be "may' or "must'. We do not share perhaps the widespread view here in the Danish Parliament that there is distrust that the municipalities themselves can make decisions. We believe that, as in the other legislation, the municipalities should be given the opportunity to reduce the ground debt and not to write off the burden of coastal degradation. The law also says that if there is council or stormfall in a forest, you can strike the ground. So if you had to make it a little uniform, you'd have to hold on to it. So it has been sloppy and that is why we are voting against these amendments, and if the amendments are adopted, we will also have to vote against the bill in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101420	Thank you, sir. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101426	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL), or on Amendment No 2. 3, 1, 4 and 5 elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101507	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, has informed me that he wishes to take Amendment No. 1, tabled outside the report, since the amendment has instead been tabled as Amendment No 1. 3. Does anyone wish to accept Amendment No 5? 1 outside the report? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101521	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 of a minority (LA), endorsed by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the VAT Act and various other laws]. for exempt persons, etc.]] Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 (EL), elected by a minority (SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 12 (EL and SF), against 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101652	Outside the report, the Minister for Taxation has tabled Amendment No. 1-16. If there is no objection, I shall consider the approval of the amendments in this sitting as granted. It's a matter of course. Does anyone wish to speak? The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101726	Thank you. This is the draft law which deals with the phasing-in of electric cars over a five-year period in the general registration fee system, and a political agreement has been drawn up that is conditional on obtaining an EU notification, i.e. a form of EU approval that the changes made are legal state aid. This is normally done in an oral procedure and then possibly in a written process, and during the oral procedure that took place here a few days ago before the examination of the legislative proposal, i.e. the second reading, which is here today, we in the Ministry of Taxation received the announcement from the Commission that it was hardly possible to approve the part of the legislative proposal which concerns the introduction of a ceiling. That is why I have had a discussion with the parties behind the bill on how to deal with it, and we have a firm desire to implement the ceiling, but of course to do so in accordance with the EU state aid rules that apply. That is why, in one of the amendments, we are calling for this element to be deleted from the legislative proposal at present. Then you will use spring 2016 to find out exactly which model you can use for the ceiling. This means that the political desire is firm, and I hope it will come at some point, but we need to have a further dialogue with the Commission on how to do this legally within the EU's state aid rules. That is quite outramatic. It can then be added that the importance of this element has naturally diminished as a result of the general lowering of registration fees, which means that the ceiling has had a less effect than it had before. However, the political desire of the parties behind the agreement is to try to get it EU-notified, and then there will be a new legislative proposal or an addition to the legislative proposal including that element. But these are the amendments that we are voting on here and I regret that they have been tabled outside the report. They should have been tabled within the report. However, it is simply because the feedback from the Commission has come relatively late and that a political solution should be found. So I regret that to the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101941	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments to be made to the Minister. First, it's sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218101949	I think maybe I'm being extremely rude. Has the Minister considered what this could have consequences? When I saw the amendments and saw that they were justified by the fact that the European Commission, or whoever it was discussed with down there, had found out that this was illegal state aid, I thought immediately: what about our entire registration tax system? What about the scale, which triggers different rates of registration fee, 105 and 150 respectively. Then I guess it's also state aid for the promotion of cheap cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102038	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102039	It is certainly not, in my view, and, in the view of the Ministry of Taxation, there is also no illegal state aid, but that is the report we have received orally from the Commission. Of course, you can choose not to give a damn about it, but then you end up in a situation where you can get a case, and you have to keep that in mind. It is not a matter that will be a problem for the Danish state, but it will be a matter where those who buy a small electric car will be able to face a situation where they or the dealer of these cars will have to pay a small fee or an additional fee. So it's not as such a problem for the state. The state may be more or less indifferent, but it would be a problem for the citizens and companies that buy and sell electric cars respectively, and we would like to remove or at least postpone that uncertainty until we can figure out exactly how to fix this ceiling. I have a belief that it can be done in some form. We will then clarify this with the Commission, but at the moment it is being deleted from the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102138	Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102139	I guess it's a problem for the state if our entire registration fee system comes into play. Can the tax minister stand here on the platform and promise it won't? I think that there are quite clear parallels between the way we have arranged our registration tax system with the different rates, and so what we are facing now, when a ceiling had also been set on the expensive electric cars, which were fully included in the phasing-in. I think that this could have very serious consequences for the state, and I do not think that what we are doing here is entirely thought out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102213	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102214	Well, that's a fair assessment from Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested's side. I choose to disagree. This is an issue that is about a corner of this agreement, not our general registration fee system, which is, of course, a registration fee system that you can think a lot about. Personally, I think that there are far too high registration fees in Denmark, but I too, as Minister of Taxation, must acknowledge that. Henning Hyllested is also a very large source of funding for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102242	Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102246	Thank you. Now, in the Liberal Alliance, we have absolutely no objection to the introduction of the registration tax system, and we would very much like to get rid of the registration tax, to relax it, all we can do, but in relation to this change, which has come about, I would say, just at the last moment, I would just like to hear the Minister review the funding for us, so what will the burden be for ordinary car buyers in relation to the change that has been made here at the last minute?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102312	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102313	This is a change in the registration tax system, which will phase in electric cars so that they will not be subject to full taxation. You're free today. And it is funding that is found in the ordinary car area. In other words, it is redistribution within the registration fee system. There are some elements in the agreement that has been made, and one of the elements is then brought forward. The fact that we did not have the ceiling meant a great deal when we had a registration fee of 180%, but now, as a result of the Finance Act and the Liberal Alliance's struggle for lower registration fees, it has been reduced to 150. This means that the importance of the ceiling becomes so small that if you remove it, it only means something in 2016 • it's so 25 million. kr. There you reduce the rate of deduction by 200 DKK. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102410	Mrs. Merete Riisager, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102412	Okay, so it's again the case that ordinary car buyers have to pay more money to buy a car because electric car buyers have to pay a little less. So once again, you do this redistribution between electric cars and ordinary cars. You do it one more time. I just want to say that we are strongly opposed to this in the Liberal Alliance. We want to remove the registration tax both for electric cars and other cars that exploit modern technology. I mean, it's not just electric cars that do it. I just want to make it quite clear that the Minister is once again imposing a new cost on ordinary car buyers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102453	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102455	What is included in the agreement is that when you make a phasing-in, where you continue to grant a discount to electric cars, it is financed by a change in car charges. That means that some will have to pay a little more, and when the price of that what is to be said? There's nothing unusual about that. I hear the Liberal Alliance's requests for total tax exemption on electric cars. I just have to say that it costs on the other side of 650 million. kr., and it's not some money we have in the government. If we had them, we would use them to lower taxes at work, and we hope that is what the Liberal Alliance wants. But, of course, I hear the wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102534	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102539	Thank you. It is, of course, a very fundamental discussion, as Enhedslisten puts it, because it is a bomb under the general tax system. Because if you accept that it should be state aid because you have a ceiling of DKK 800,000, then you can reasonably say that it is also state aid when you have a tax cut of between 105 per cent. 150 percent and 150 percent. on all other cars. That is why we in the Danish People's Party fear that this is spreading and we are really sorry that the government, as I understand it, disagrees with the fact that it is state aid, just as the officials are accepting it. What is to be done next time the European Union comes and says that the ordinary tax system is also State aid? I think this is a struggle one has to take, even if it is a very small matter in terms of revenue. But it is a very fundamental matter which can spread quite a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102630	Thank you. But as such, I do not disagree with that. Well, I disagree that this is going to have a major impact on the registration fee system at all. I don't think that's gonna happen. But I agree that we must of course take the fight, and that is what we have said in a letter to the Parliamentary Committee on Taxation that we want to do. That is why we are going to enter into dialogue with the Commission and argue that this ceiling is, of course, fully within the EU's state aid rules. When the Commission acknowledges this, and I hope they do so, or if they acknowledge it with a nuance or a slight change, then it can become legislation in this Chamber. However, this may take some time, and there you can of course choose to put it in the draft law now in the wording it has, or you can choose to take the dialogue with the Commission and find a solution and adjust the proposal. We have chosen the last; we could also have chosen the first. As a tax minister, I have considered that it is more such a question of what makes the most practical sense in this situation. And it makes the most sense to say that we stand firm in the ceiling, but that we would like to discuss the concrete form of it with the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102733	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102735	I would like to ask the tax minister if he is aware of the fact that in other EU countries there is in fact a ceiling similar to this one that has been approved by the European Union, which could perhaps be used as an argument that it would be good to take up the fight in this area. Then I would like to ask the Minister if he does not agree that this is a bomb under the rest of the tax system, because if it ends up with the European Union saying that we must not have the ceiling, then what prevents it from saying that there is state aid in all other areas? Can the Minister not see that there is a parallel? I understand that the Minister disagrees that this is state aid, but if it ends up accepting the premise that the EU is probably making a judgment on, is not the problem that it becomes a bomb under the rest of the tax system?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102813	I would like to do so, but unfortunately I cannot explain in detail the registration tax systems of the other EU countries. However, I can say that we are still one of the countries in the world with the highest registration fee. I think that there are ceiling models in other EU countries, and that is part of the argument that can be put forward to the Commission. We are not laying down, we are taking the fight, but with a dialogue in mind, and that is why I hope that the proposal which will now be postponed to a further dialogue, later in the session or in the next session, can be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102850	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote... Henning Hylllested. It is so rare that the rapporteurs are sitting at the rapporteur's table that I missed it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218102902	I've just done what you've always done, I guess. That's right, that's right. ) So you have to be careful about that. Well, I just wanted to say that I think, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær has a very clear point. 14 days after a referendum in which the Danish people have said: no more EU!, we must see in the context of a legislative proposal that the EU says: no, what is illegal state aid. And then you have to see that the ministry and the minister and the majority behind it, not the whole majority, but some of the parties behind this agreement, lie down flat and say: okay, the EU, we are right; we do as you say; we don't run with that ceiling. One might have chosen to say: 'Okay, that is what they said after the referendum'. Now we must also take the Danes seriously; now we must also listen to those who say no. Yet you lie down flat. One could have done the opposite and said: we are now listening; they do not want any more EU; we are taking the fight! It has been chosen not to do so. Once again, you lie down flat. The Danes are simply not taken seriously on this EU issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103025	There is just one brief comment to Mr. Finn Sørensen from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103030	See, we don't think it's funny that the European Union thinks they should get involved in this. But if it were not for us to bring the legislation into line, is the rapporteur aware of who has to pay the bill if it is that the EU does not approve that ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103045	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103046	We have always said that we think this is a really bad agreement, and we have repeatedly pointed out in the negotiations in which we have, after all, participated, far along the way, in fact to the finish line, that it would be possible to finance a continued tax exemption. This has not been the intention of the majority behind the agreement, but we have moved on and that is why we have put ourselves in this situation. It is true that during the course of the negotiations it has been pointed out that it was, of course, dependent on the approval of the European Union, and it is also something that has been blinking like an alarm all the way through, but it is the parties to the agreement that have brought themselves into this situation. Because it's had to go to hell, it happens at the last minute, so no one can really react to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103140	It's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103142	I take this as an indication that the rapporteur is not aware of who has to pay the bill if it is that we do not get it approved and yet implement it: it is they who buy the small electric cars that then have to pay the bill for it. They are the ones who have to pay a fine for this legislation not to be in line with what the European Union wants to approve. So that means that it is all those who go out and buy a small electric car that will have to pay if we do not change the legislation with this amendment. Does the rapporteur think it is right that all those who want to buy small electric cars should be taken hostage in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103214	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103215	It is not us who take anyone hostage, it is the parties to the agreement that take someone hostage because they have not prepared well enough because they are actually making an agreement that cannot be approved in the European Union. I have to say that first of all. Secondly, I would like to say that we have always been opposed to making this agreement at all, and we have then proposed that the tax exemption should continue. So in relation to the small electric cars and the large electric cars, I have to say that if you had followed the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF's proposals, you would not have been in this situation and the electric cars would have been able to continue with the tax exemption at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103249	Thank you. There are a few more brief comments, Mr President. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103256	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's glowing speech, which I fully agree with... I think it sometimes goes a little wrong up here. Had Mr. Finn Sørensen squeezed in? Yeah, go ahead). Thank you. That was not a criticism of the rapporteur's speech, on the contrary, because I thought it was very good. However, I came into a small identity crisis down here on my chair, because I noticed that the President introduced the rapporteur as Mr. Finn Sørensen, and then I wondered if I was fully involved in what was going on. So I just need to confirm that it's sir. Henning Hyllested, standing on the platform. I would like to reply).
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103345	I think that remark was appropriate. I think we all need Christmas vacation, that's the way it must be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103352	Dear sir. Finn Sørensen, it's not actually the first time we've been confused. For journalists, civil servants, etc., and I'll give you, we'll be confused. I don't know, but do we look alike?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103405	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103411	This is a serious matter! Now the rapporteur himself mentioned this, and he managed to say it after I had pressed my mind, but does the rapporteur not agree that if the government and the other parties to the agreement had followed the funding proposal put forward by the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, namely to raise the tax rate to what is just average, there was plenty of funding? Today you get a big, fat check in your hand to buy a car that drives less miles per hour. Literally than an average car, and that's crazy. So does the rapporteur not agree that the funding proposal, which had provided ample funding to continue the tax exemption for electric cars, had covered both the cost of doing so and had not put us in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103458	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103459	That is, of course, absolutely right, and it is actually true that we have shared a whole range of these proposals. There is plenty of funding in the tax system we have today, if you will, and if, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says, you will have an average tax deduction. So that is absolutely correct. As I have already said, we ourselves, the SF and the Alternative have, of course, had a whole series of proposals on how this could actually be financed, and I must insist that it is the parties to the agreement that have put themselves in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103540	A brief comment has still been made, and it is from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103546	If it were up to the Enhedslisten, all electric cars should remain exempt, and I think that is a very fine Unity List view. But I just need the rapporteur to confirm that if you had such a policy, it would be the most powerful electric car buyers who would gain the most from it. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103608	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103609	It is quite true that in the proposals we have had on the continued tax exemption, we have not actually operated on incorporating a ceiling. If we had agreed to this agreement, we would of course have accepted that ceiling, but in the continuation of the tax exemption it would not have been there. So that is absolutely correct. And that is, of course, because we believe that today the electric car market is still too weak to operate with the green transition in the transport sector, and that is why we think it would be devastating if we started tampering in that market. So it is quite true that the continued tax exemption without any ceiling would of course mean what the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103654	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested, and I'm sorry for the mistake, it won't happen again from up here. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen is allowed to press if you wish to speak on the second point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103659	That is very good, and I will just have to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur something. So it is the case that you can have more consideration in the world, and the fact that something benefits the most powerful people, is not necessarily an argument against doing so. Is that correct, sir? Henning Hylllested?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103726	A continued tax exemption will primarily benefit the green transition in the transport sector and will primarily benefit the expansion of the electric car market. As I said just now, it is still far too weak for us to see a sensible green transition in the transport sector, and that is why we have wanted a continued tax exemption, with the disadvantages that may exist. Because we believe that if you start tampering with it, you're gonna stop it. The agreement in question, which is now on the table, will very much put the electric car market at a standstill and slow down the green transition in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103811	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. And then we move on to Mr. Jesper Petersen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218103820	Thank you. We are really starting to discuss this whole agreement on electric cars. We can do that for my sake, but now it is some amendments that we really need to discuss and adopt now, and on Monday it will be the final adoption of the legislative proposal. It is unusual for the Minister of Taxation to be able to table amendments for, indeed, almost 12 hours to amend this bill immediately before the second reading. It is our view that we would have preferred to have implemented the agreement as it was concluded, of course. That's why we made it like we did. And just so that people out there are not supposed to think that we were total idiots when we concluded it, I would say that of course it was also the case that the Treasury tested the proposal they had and the agreement we were making with the Commission. And we were told during the negotiations that it would be okay to do so. That was the message that was changed since then, and that must be taken into account, at least if you want the electric cars well. I understand that the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten can find each other in such a common agreement to be critical of the fact that we are subject to some amendments to the agreement here on the part of the EU. As I said, I would have liked to have implemented the agreement as it was, and I do not understand the argument we are being confronted with, and I still hope that it will be implemented when the dialogue with the Commission is completed. However, the odd thing here is that if this amendment is implemented, conditions will become more lucrative for electric cars, so it seems to me incomprehensible that those who have been critical of the agreement will not really help to get it in place. Mr. Henning Hylllested just as well have stood and argued in favour. Because that is actually what will be the case. So if these amendments are not implemented now and on Monday, the proposed legislation will not be adopted, as Enhedslisten says, namely that there will be full exemption with the high costs involved. There will be a full tax on 1 January if the amendment is not adopted now and the bill is adopted on Monday. I should just like to remind you that, following a quick reading of the amendments tabled by Enhedslisten, when we were discussing the Finance Act a short time ago here in the Danish Parliament, no amendments had been tabled to allow the full exemption of electric cars to be extended. You can stand up and say that, but it is a good idea to have the billions of dollars, it will cost to do it for the next 3-5 years, because it will. It is because it is starting to go so well for electric cars that something has to be done. It was a remark about the oddity of how the parties stand now, and then I just have the comment that this is about being parties to the agreement... if you have not discovered it... after all, it has gone from including the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radicals and the Government to the fact that it is now alone the Social Democracy and the Radicals who take responsibility for bringing this agreement through the Folketing. And it is in a way spectacular that so relatively small an adjustment that is needed in order to implement it leads to the Left not being able to stick with its main support party, and that the situation has now become so bad between the government and its support party that it is not possible to clarify such a thing here in remembrance, but that the Danish People's Party is dropping out of it. If the rest of us did the same, there would be full tax on electric cars on 1 January. But that is the kind of thing you can cheer yourself up about, just as it has to be said that today the tax minister sounds somewhat different when he has to be pragmatic in relation to messages from the European Union than the Left did when we were discussing profit principles and other things. At that time, there was nothing to correct, and the European Union had to be tested and brought to justice, and one thing and the other. You don't have to do that here. With the comments on the small things you can note about how this is going to develop, I would just recommend that those who actually want the electric car market to work well will vote through this amendment now and lead the agreement through the Folketing on Monday. The alternative is full charge per year. January 1. I do not think you can be interested in this if you want to have both fairness in things, but also a continued roll-out of electric cars in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104241	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104246	Isn't the case, sir? Jesper Petersen, that this deal is basically a mess? Isn't that the idea of this $800,000 ceiling? was a very important part of the agreement • it was at least so, while I was in the negotiations as well as the bottom allowance for the cheap cars of DKK 10,000. Was a very, very important part of this deal? Now it has been tampered with, because it has been demanded by the European Union. Isn't the deal really a mess? One might have chosen to say that one would take the fight with the European Union. The Ministry of Taxation continues to disagree with the EU. Then you could have taken the fight and seen what was going on, if you got a case on your neck. One might also have chosen to make reservations about this in the agreement, and then one could wait to phase it in until these matters were fully clarified. You could have made an agreement that took into account the fact that you were faced with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104350	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104352	No, the truth is that after the government changed the registration fee in connection with the Finance Act, what we were opposed to it doing, especially the way it financed it, did not really change the charges, it ended up with the fact that this limit on how much of the tax is subject to a slow phasing-in had a minor impact. So the whole basic concept, in which electric cars are slowly introduced into the registration tax system, but surely in a way where there will still be a significant reduction in registration tax on electric cars, because they are as energy efficient as they are, one can easily pass through, and that is what we are doing, but what we are doing about this DKK 800,000 threshold will therefore only be implemented once the dialogue with the European Commission has been completed. And we hope that will continue to be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104454	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104456	But there is no guarantee that it will end there. With the attitude of the European Union, which lays down flat and salutes, there is no guarantee that the European Union will say that it is okay with that 800,000 crown limit. Or, after the entire phase-in has been completed in 4-5 years, you risk that it will fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104519	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104522	I think it should be noted that it has been agreed between the remaining parties after the Danish People's Party has withdrawn from the agreement that this ceiling or a variant of it will continue to be introduced once the dialogue with the Commission has been completed. But you can hear the difference just from Mr. Henning Hyllested's first speech to the next, that it is not the case that anything is in gravel. It can be implemented, and we are doing so, and it has ended up affecting only a small amount of revenue of 25 million. kr., which we have then found a sensible solution to. It remains to be seen that Mr. Henning Hyllested, if he votes against this amendment, will actually vote against the fact that there are some buyers of electric cars, including some very expensive electric cars, which will have to have less discount, actually full tax per. January 1.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104611	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104614	After all, we are dealing with the amendments today, and I would just like to say for the record that the SF supports the amendments, so the discussion is different from it may be with Enhedslisten and at least with DF. This is certainly a bizarre and messy process. It's not pretty. When Mr. Jesper Petersen says that the parties that did not sign up to the agreement had not secured funding, so it is not true. There were funding proposals, including: with regard to the tax reduction. We said that there was no reason to hold onto an antiquarian model, where a check is actually sent to the car owners who buy cars that drive less on the litre than a new average car. That alone would give 500 million. kr. a year before retreat, so it could finance this. Then there were also a large number of proposals from both the Alternative and Enhedslisten, so the funding was in place. After all, we are taking the big debate on the electric cars now, but I just think it is appropriate to say that there were political disagreements about how far we should go and who should pay, and not about the funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104730	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104731	Well, I would agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that it would actually have been preferable for us to be discussing a major shift in car taxation in Denmark which, in terms of both electric cars and all sorts of other cars, would create a tax system, a tax system that encouraged more environmentally-friendly and climate-friendly cars on the roads. That is what we must continue to seek to achieve. I still think so. In this case, however, it was simply a question of solving a challenge with regard to electric cars, and we thought that we had reached where we should have phased them into the general registration tax system just as slowly. This would then also give a bill for the next five years, but the rather smaller the bill than if we had continued with the tax exemption, which would have meant that all other car buyers of an ordinary family car in Denmark would still have to put a very large amount of money in order for there to be a complete exemption for electric cars. They are still in a favourable position, but of course not as favourable as if there were a full exemption. Then I will just sign for the SF to support the amendment. It is true that you should do so if you really want the electric cars well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104848	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104849	Does the rapporteur not agree that it is a fact that when this bill is finally adopted, Denmark will be the first country in the world to actually impose taxes on electric cars? In Finland there is a micro-tax, but we are really going to be the first country in the world to say: we have just had a climate summit, we want the green transition, we know that the transport sector accounts for a very large part of our CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104926	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218104928	That may be true. I don't think we're gonna be the only country that has it. However, when it is a little more urgent for us than for other countries to find some sort of solution to get electric cars into the general registration system, it is because we have such a relatively high vehicle tax as we have. I know SF, possibly for an isolated 1-year solution, has found some money that could be proposed to fund it. But if we then say that there must be an exemption for the next three years or for the next five years, then we are talking about a significant billions which all other taxpayers must put in and which we cannot spend on welfare, which we cannot spend on all sorts of other climate measures. We will have to, and we have not really seen that funding. You have to think your argument to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105013	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105016	Thank you. I have to say that I think it is a bit tacky and that you pull the debate down when you try to make it that the Danish People's Party has broken an agreement and the government has no control over its parliamentary basis. For in the Danish People's Party we are fully committed to the agreement we have reached, including the ceiling, which was, of course, an essential part of the agreement. What has just happened afterwards is that the Radical Left, the Social Democratic Party and the government have chosen to go in a different direction than the one we have agreed. So if you should finally look at it quite factually, it is not the Danish People's Party that has gone ahead with something that is outside the agreement or has broken an agreement. It is in this way the speaker on the platform, his own party, who has done so. Can the rapporteur not confirm that the Danish People's Party simply stands firm on what we have agreed and has not broken any agreement at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105100	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105102	In other words, the whole task has been to take responsibility for getting a solution around the electric cars. That is what we have done by making an agreement, and that is also what we are doing by getting it through the Folketing. If you then skip it and say that you will vote against it, then the consequence is that there will be a full levy on 1 January. We are not prepared to do so. I think the Danish People's Party is running from that responsibility. After all, the government and the Danish People's Party must lie and mess with what makes the mood so bad that such a relatively small economic thing as it is here cannot be fixed. I do not know whether it is the discussion about housing benefits packages, general funds and now also the compensation tax for pensioners that makes the Danish People's Party so inclined to speak out before the government that it will neither help the Minister to abolish open tax lists nor solve this problem. You're gonna have to mess with that yourself. But the fact is that if we do not do this, there will be a full tax from 1 January, and I do not think that is to take responsibility for the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105205	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105206	I have to say that I think it is a strange logic expressed from the platform. Now there is an amendment on the table today which means that the legislative proposal is no longer in line with what we have agreed. The Danish People's Party then votes against to keep it in line with what we have agreed and the Social Democrats vote in favour. Then it should be the Danish People's Party that brings it out of line with the agreement! It is therefore a completely reverse logic and contrary to common sense. We are simply sticking to a substantial part of the agreement we made, namely that there must be a ceiling on it so that the most expensive electric cars have a scale that we have for all other taxes on cars. We think that is a good deal and we stick to it. That is what the Socialists should do instead of laying down flat for the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105246	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105247	I fully understand if Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is deeply amazed at how the government argues in cases related to EU recommendations. That is the case. You've turned yourself up a lot in the past and you've wanted to do things about different things, but you don't do it in this specific situation. That is the pragmatic solution we must find. After all, the agreement is that we are still trying to implement a variant of the ceiling, or precisely this ceiling, once the matter has been settled with the European Commission. But if you did what the Danish People's Party is doing now, there would be a full tax on them on 1 January, and we think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105325	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105328	I did not really intend to take the floor, but what I want to say is that we are fundamentally opposed to this agreement. I fully agree with SF, I thought we had found other funding proposals. There was also a debate about how long this phase-in would take, and it was after all the government's proposal that the funding should be found within the electric cars. But, of course, we support this amendment, everything else I think would be inappropriate in that, after all, it will also be cheaper for the electric cars that are at the expensive end of the scale. Of course, we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105405	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105407	I think it is good that the alternative backs the amendment. That's also what makes it possible to implement it on Monday and make this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105423	Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105424	The rapporteur has been terribly opposed to this in the past in reducing registration fees for more expensive cars. How will the rapporteur feel if we now have to pay less tax on very expensive electric cars, whereas it seems that an additional cost can be charged to ordinary car buyers, in other words people who need a more modest car? How does the rapporteur feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105457	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105458	I would like to start by saying that, if it were the case that the Liberal Alliance thought that it was small cars that would be taken into account, then it would have been possible to make a different proposal to the Finance Act. There it was targeted in a way where it gives as much a discount as possible to the largest cars. One could easily have made it completely different, made sure that it was more targeted the first part of a car's price. So I do not buy that Mrs Merete Riisager should in any way be particularly concerned about what the conditions are for people who want to buy a small car. It's about the most expensive cars getting cheaper, and that's why the champagne corks went off the bottles in the Liberal Alliance group room. Congratulations on that profit in the finance negotiations. I would just like to say here that whatever type of electric car is involved, whatever segment it is in, how much money it costs, it will be part of this agreement and the phasing-in of registration fees for electric cars that will be over the next few years. You are going to pay a more reasonable price and contribute with that tax, and there are so few models that will just be less expensive than they would have been. I think it is important that we get the agreement through the Folketing and make sure that there are arranged conditions in this market. So I'm gonna live fine with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105614	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105615	I didn't ask about the Liberal Alliance's policy. I know that one very well. And the reason why we are not in the agreement on the electric cars is actually that you erode the deduction for car radios so that the ordinary car buyer has to pay more for his car. Now I specifically asked: if you now remove this ceiling, so that you will have to pay less in the tax on expensive cars, how does the rapporteur feel about that cost being paid by ordinary car buyers, that is to say by people who buy smaller cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105647	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105648	It is true from Mrs Merete Riisager that the whole way of financing this agreement is in the field of car taxation. What was once considered a necessary deduction for having radio in its car, which must now be regarded as standard equipment, is then reduced. There is still a deduction, but the deduction will be slightly lower, and there have been some particularly favourable conditions for foreign exchange rental cars, which will then be dropped. We think it's okay to finance this deal, which means that the electric cars can continue to roll out on the market. I am pleased that Mrs Merete Riisager is familiar with the policy of the Liberal Alliance. I just thought she was raising a different concern and a different policy from that of the Liberal Alliance. And that is why I felt the need to clarify what we were debating.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105736	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105742	Thank you. I think the kind of logic that the rapporteur has put forward is rather strange, since the rapporteur has now repeatedly said that the Danish People's Party has withdrawn from an agreement. I would like the rapporteur to explain in concrete terms what is the point of the agreement that we reached, in other words what is the specific point we have left. I would like the rapporteur to put that into practice. It must be quite easy for the rapporteur to do so. At any rate, I think it is a strange form of logic that it should be the Danish People's Party that has left an agreement when it is other parties moving away from the contract paper that we have entered into. Then you say to those who don't want to get away from the deal: Well, then you're the ones who've gone from the deal. That is where I think the rapporteur owes us all a fairly good explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105825	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105826	The answer is actually simple, because it is not one point, it is the whole agreement from which the Danish People's Party has run. It is not intended to vote in favour of it, as I understand it. That's absolutely right. The Danish People's Party is going to vote against that amendment now and, as I understand it, you can correct it if it is not right, then you are also going to vote against the whole bill on Monday so that it is not implemented. That's running from a deal. We had an agreement on how to bring electric cars into the general registration tax system and it will be implemented. Then there is an element in what cannot be introduced immediately, but which we have an agreement with each other about to be introduced later, and then one has to hope that the Danish People's Party is then prepared to do so. The reality is that if everyone did what the Danish People's Party is doing now, it would all fall apart; we would not be able to implement the agreement, which means that there is no full tax on electric cars on 1 January, and that is contrary to the whole idea behind making this agreement. However, it is actually so good that we have discovered here that if it were up to the Danish People's Party and the Left and we had not agreed to make an agreement, there would have been full tax on 1 January.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105935	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218105937	What the rapporteur is trying to do here is, to put it bluntly, gibberish. I mean, there's an agreement where we're one of the parties to the agreement. A paper is being made, and that paper is by word for word, point by point. The rapporteur has not been able to give a single example of something we have left behind. Nevertheless, the rapporteur stands down here and claims that it is the Danish People's Party that has resigned from an agreement. It's gibberish! There is simply no logic in what the rapporteur says, and I think the rapporteur should try to explain that. Give an example of what we have left in the political agreement!
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110013	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110014	As I said just now, everything has been abandoned, since it is not voted for. There's a small element of what's about this limit where you're going to phase in and where there's a full tax right away, and that's just 25 million. kr. of the agreement. And what remains is still missing, and which was the offer made by the Danish People's Party, was that we could agree that we should, of course, seek to implement the agreement as it has been concluded. We will continue to do so, but the problem is that right now we are in a situation where, if we didn't do something and all of us did what the Danish People's Party did, it would fall on the ground. In fact, I believe that everything has been put at risk and runs from the whole agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110055	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110103	I hardly know how to deal with this Christmas comedy playing out on the platform. But let's try to turn the clock back a little bit. Do we agree that the Danish People's Party made an agreement with a large number of parties? Do we agree that a random official in the Belgian city jungle in Brussels is calling the Ministry and saying that it is not going to work? And are we not also agreed that the parties, apart from among other things. Dansk Folkeparti says that we will then have to change it, and thus skips from the agreement that Dansk Folkeparti has entered into with among others. Mr. Jesper Petersen's party? Isn't that a fair description of the whole process?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110147	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110149	In other words, there is the fact that, while we were making the agreement, we were told that it was completely in line with the rules and that we were able to implement it as it was and have since received another message. Then there is no final clarification of that, that is correct. It may well be that we can implement it as we have agreed or as a variant of it. This is the dialogue now taking place between the Ministry of Taxation and the Commission. I'm just as amazed as Mr. Thompson. Alex Ahrendtsen and others are aware that the Commission can reach that conclusion. The thing is, if you don't do something now, the whole deal will fall on the ground. The negotiations have taken great account of the wishes of the Danish People's Party. Well, that's what it is. Now there is a case in which the whole agreement under which the Danish People's Party has also been given great consideration cannot be implemented unless we vote in favour of this amendment in a moment. That is why I believe that the Danish People's Party completely pulls away the curtain under the agreement it has made. Why you can't solve something like this about such a relatively small part of this agreement with the government in a memorable way, the political commentators can then use the Christmas break to find out. I think the answer rhymes with housing benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110302	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110305	The whole deal falls on the ground because among other things. The Socialists are leaving an agreement because of a call from the European Union. Is it not true that the Ministry's own officials consider that this is not State aid? Why on earth do the Socialists choose to listen to a random official who has made an oral statement when the Ministry's officials judge the opposite? That doesn't make any sense. It's devoid of logic what's playing out on that platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110335	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110338	The logic is that if we don't do this, if we don't change the bill now and run it through on Monday, there will be full tax on the electric cars on 1 January, and that's against the whole idea of making this deal. It is precisely about making an ongoing phase-in and finding a way within the general registration fee system to give electric cars a significant discount. That is what will happen when the agreement is implemented. Now there is a dialogue with the Commission, which we simply cannot have before 1 January, on how to create a ceiling such as that proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110411	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. There's no more questioners. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110422	Now, in principle, this is only about the amendments, but I can hear that the debate is spreading a little more. So I really want to start by saying that the background to this whole bill is that if you didn't do something, the electric cars would really get hit by full charge per. January 1. The Danish People's Party then enters into a constructive process with the rest of the parties in the Folketing, where we among others. negotiates us to a model where there's going to be a ceiling, so 800,000 won't get part of this softer phase-in. At that time, we are told by the Department of Taxation that there has been a discussion with the European Union about this. We are told that this can be done, in other words that it is not State aid. In the middle of the legislative process, it is then arrived at that it is now state aid. We are told this by means of an oral briefing... not even a written, not a firm decision that can be taken. And that means that we are in this very fundamental situation right now, because in the Danish People's Party we do not accept the premise that this ceiling should be illegal state aid. I understand that the other parties to the agreement do not mean that either. The tax minister does not think so, and the tax minister's officials do not think so either. Yet you choose to change this bill so that it no longer complies with the agreement we made at the Treasury. The reason why we are so in principle against this is precisely that it is very fundamental. It is not a matter of large revenue, but we very much fear that this could spread to the rest of the tax system for our cars. Because if we accept that the ceiling should be subject to state aid, then there is nothing to prevent us from looking at it in the same way with regard to ordinary cars, where we are currently paying a levy of 105 per cent. up to a certain amount and then at 150 per cent. If the logic of the European Union is to be used, then it must also be illegal state aid in favour of cheaper cars. We simply disagree with that, and so are the Treasury officials. And that's why we don't see any reason why you choose to correct this way. We are fully in favour of the agreement we have made, and we are looking at it in such a way that if these amendments are adopted to remove the ceiling, then that is no longer the agreement we are implementing. So, we do not think it makes any sense when the Socialists try to claim that it is the Danish People's Party that has run out of an agreement. We simply stand quietly firm on the agreement we have made, which is including the ceiling. As has already been concluded as part of the debate, the ceiling was an essential part of the premise of that agreement and, when that ceiling is gone, there is no real basis for the agreement anymore. To conclude, I would like to recommend to the parties of the Danish Parliament that they vote against the removal of the ceiling, so that we stick to it. I would particularly like to say this to the other bourgeois parties; in particular the Conservatives and Liberals, I would recommend voting against Amendment No. 10, which is, of course, about funding, that is to say, that all other drivers lose a deduction which makes all other cars more expensive, so that the most expensive electric cars can be cheaper. I think it could be a pill for the Conservative and Liberal Alliance in particular, which might also have to choose to vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110739	There is, for the time being, a brief comment from Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110746	I am really sorry to hear that DF will not vote in favour. I knew it. But it sounds as if we did not mention in the negotiations that this should be approved in the European Union, that is to say that the model... Can't you hear it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110805	I think there's something wrong with the public address system in general, but we're trying to figure that out. Please repeat the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110807	I do. I am well aware that, unfortunately, DF did not intend to vote in favour of this, and I think that is really a pity. But the reason I am taking the floor now is that it sounds as if we have not indicated in the negotiations that this scheme should be approved by the European Union. I think it was quite clear in the course of the negotiations that we had to have approval in order to get this model implemented. I just want to know if the rapporteur can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110834	It will certainly help if there is more quiet in the Chamber, especially if there is a little problem with the speaker system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110841	I can confirm that very clearly. It says in the text of the agreement that it was part of the prerequisite for this, but the premise was that we were also told by the official work that a feeling had been sent out to the European Commission and that it had been told that this would not be State aid and that the assessment by our leading tax officials was that this was not State aid. So it was quite clear that we all expected that it would be quite natural to be able to do so, even in the context of the rest of the tax system, where it is not considered as State aid that you have this sort of thing. What we fear is that this will be a matter of principle and that it will be able to spread to the rest of the tax system. I therefore hope that the Left will agree that there is such a risk. On top of that, I can tell you that we have been informed that in other countries too there is a ceiling which has not yet been overruled. But if you accept this premise in Denmark, it can spread to the rest of the EU, so it can also have quite major consequences around the other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110930	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110934	I can confirm that we also got the impression that the European Union would approve this model. That's what they had said until this week. So we are also very sorry that the European Union is now apparently not going to approve the model, but the problem is that if we had not made this solution, we would be in a situation where all electric cars would actually pay a levy of 150 per cent. New Year's. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218110958	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111001	Yes, and perhaps one should understand that the premise was that it should be the responsibility of the Danish People's Party. I don't think so. It is the European Union that has a responsibility because it does not approve this. I just think that it could be adopted anyway, and if then there was a case from the European Union that might end up in a court decision it could take a long time to carry on with the light tax until then.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111019	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111025	I have a slightly more fundamental question about political work and how the Danish People's Party feels about it. When you make a big deal about something important and then there is a small part that you get cold feet over, which changes or something, can the Danish People's Party imagine that you can postpone a small part of an agreement and find a solution after New Year?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111047	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111050	That wasn't a small part of the deal. This ceiling was actually quite an important part, so it wasn't just a little bit of the deal. We fully support that agreement and would therefore like to take responsibility for finding a smooth phasing-in with regard to electric cars. Now the EU has just chosen to override it, and the majority of the Folketing have chosen to lie down flat. In principle, I am not shooting at the other parties in the agreement. It is the European Union that I am shooting at because they have chosen to say that this is illegal state aid, and I am just not buying that premise. But it must also be said that when the prerequisite for an agreement is going as it is now, and when we are under pressure of time, because after all we only got the amendments over late last night, there has just been no time for us to sit down and negotiate again. But if there had been a good deal of time, I also think that in a perhaps more constructive way, we could have looked again at the agreement. This can be done in many other areas when you find out that there are challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111135	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111139	On the subject of whether this is a very important part of the agreement: I think that the pensioners who were on the verge of the Finance Act thought that it was quite an important part of the agreement. Apparently, it could be changed there, even if there wasn't much time. Therefore, I just ask: How does the Danish People's Party think that this is in harmony with the way you otherwise work? Because if there's a small corner, you can put it off, but in this situation, you don't want to make a deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111201	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111203	The big difference is precisely the time pressure. It is said by the Ministry that it is important to have this adopted on Monday, so there has been no time to open the agreement, postpone it or look at it again. That is the challenge. One did not want to stand firm on the agreement we had, which we in the Danish People's Party would like to see done, and there was no time to look at whether we could find another model. That's the whole challenge of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111224	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111234	Thank you very much. As you know, the Radical Left would have liked to see a continuation of the full tax exemption for electric cars. We had even set 500 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our draft financial regulation, and in the agreement we have made with the government, we have made it quite clear that we are at liberty if there is a majority in favour of such a tax exemption. It is also difficult to understand the technology and law of what comes from the European Commission. It is also a mystery what the Danish People's Party is doing, because if you actually did what the Danish People's Party is proposing, namely just implement the bill as it is, and if we are overruled in 6 months or 12 months, the concrete consequence of the Danish People's Party's crusade against the EU is that all electric car owners, including those who have the small electric cars and who have bought them in good faith, will have to pay their tax. So I do not think that we can be familiar with putting ordinary Danish electric car owners in. Nor do I think we can be familiar with putting the whole business community working on this issue into that uncertainty. Yeah, if it was something that was about billions of dollars, but it's not. It's about a lousy $25 million. kr. Next year, once and for all. The second thing that has happened, in addition to what has come from the European Union, is that the registration fee has been reduced from 180%. This is a very different condition for the agreement than it was when we concluded it. So there are several things that have happened. It is purely EU policy, one must understand when the Danish People's Party does what they do. I guess there are a lot of comments. But having said all that, I have to say that I am probably the least dissatisfied here today. I'm kind of happy about this. This ends up getting a little cheaper to buy electric cars in the future. It's a small step forward. That is why we are even more pleased with this agreement. We would have liked to have seen a full tax exemption, but it has been a little better seen with the eye of the electric car industry. That's why the big mystery today is Enhedslisten. I'm sorry I said that. Now I have always had a little difficulty understanding the rational of Enhedslisten, but I thought it was always possible to vote for something that did things a little bit better, and that you would always vote against something that made things a little bit worse. Here's a proposal... and I think Enhedslisten will have to accept that makes this agreement a little better seen through the electric car owners' spectacles and thus also seen with the eyes of Enhedslisten, if I have understood the whole of Enhedslisten's rhetoric, because it makes it better for the electric car owners and for the climate and the environment. That is not much I accept, but it is a step in the right direction. I actually thought that the whole political philosophy of the Enhedslisten was that when something was a step in the right direction, it was voted in favour. We can then vote against the agreement in due course, but I simply do not understand why we are voting against this improvement which we will be voting on shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111542	Thank you. There are three points I should like to make briefly, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111552	I understand that the Radical Left is a very EU-positive party, but Mr. Martin Lidegaard really wants the EU to interfere in how we set up our Danish car tax system? Because that is what they are doing here, even if it is not an area in which we have given sovereignty. Mr. Martin Lidegaard has not gone too far in the way in which state aid rules are applied in virtually everything? And fear Mr. Martin Lidegaard is not saying that this could be a bomb under the rest of the tax system if we recognise that premise and the EU comes to the conclusion that this is illegal state aid? What about the scaffolding of the rest of the tax system? I guess you can rightly say that this is also state aid. So this is not the time to put your foot down and say that now it is no longer going to go, that we have to fight with the European Union and say that these state aid rules cannot be applied in all areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111634	Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111637	It is true that we are extremely pleased that there is a European Commission that is holding hands under the single market and that we cannot just give state aid to the companies we want, because then we know who would win in competition. That would be the case for the large countries which can provide much more state aid than we can. Therefore, there is nothing unnatural about the Commission monitoring whether State aid is being granted. Then, in the specific case, we can be astonished that the Commission is going into it. It is regrettable that everything has to be done so quickly. I am also looking forward to having a more detailed explanation, but the principle itself is sound. No, I am not worried that this will have a spill-over effect in relation to registration fees, because this is a legislative proposal in which we exempt, you might say, some cars from a tax, and that is why we are in the state aid area. We are not with the ordinary registration fees.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111728	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111733	So the Radical Left agrees with the criticism that this is not state aid. But why not stand up for it? In other words, if the officials do not think it is state aid, if the tax minister does not think it is state aid, and if the parties behind the agreement agree that this is quite crazy, why not just stick to the original agreement and take the fight with the European Union? After all, we're more parties in Parliament... I can hear that... where there's a concern that this could spread. Because if you accept the premise that it would be state aid to the cheap cars with a ceiling, then you can rightly say that it is also in the rest of the registration tax system. Moreover, why was it not so when electric cars were completely exempt from tax? Surely it must have been state aid to the electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111813	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111816	I mean, I am not a lawyer and, as I said, I would not rule out the possibility that freeing a certain type of electric car from tax might come under the concept of State aid within the meaning of EU law. But the reason why I think this is a wrong way, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær proposes to do so, namely that we take the chance, and then we see whether there will be an EU judgment, is, of course, that all those people who then buy electric cars in the meantime get it right back in their heads. It is they who suddenly have to pay the tax if it becomes known illegally. Then why not do what we are proposing, namely to say: now we are implementing the legislation so that we are on the safe side and so that the Danes know what they have to stick to, and then we will have the discussion with the European Commission in the meantime? In any case, we are sure that Danish consumers will not get caught, and we are sure that there are clear rules in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111858	Thank you. Mrs. Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111905	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the Radicals are happy, and the rapporteur says that it is a mere 25 million. kr. Here. But the 25 million. kr. I believe that this will be imposed on ordinary car buyers, so it is perhaps a little fresh to say that it is a pitiful 25 million. kr., if it becomes an additional expense for people who are going to buy a Peugeot 306, or whatever it may be. So what is the rapporteur's view on this, so that there can be a new cost to ordinary car buyers?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111934	Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111937	I'm not able to figure out how much this is going to mean on average per. Mr President, I would like to say that the Commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but I am afraid to say that they are promos, simply because what we are getting in revenue from registration fees is a high two-digit billion amount. And it is in this context that I think we can say that 25 million. kr. Not a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111956	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218111959	Now I know it has been a long time since the Radicals had a tax policy which was about principles, which was also about the citizens having to pay something less in tax at all; that there could also be taxes that were too high and unreasonable and that if they were brought down, it would have a huge effect on the citizens and less on the Treasury and all these things. So does it not hurt anywhere on the Radicals if you set up a tax for ordinary citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112024	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112027	From a radical point of view, we are most concerned about the matter and we dare to give priority here, that is what politics is all about... putting the tax down to work. This is what will make a difference for Danish companies and Danish citizens. I do not understand the fact that the Liberal Alliance is going to crawl the money away on random reliefs of registration tax instead of focusing on reducing income tax, even in the context of the financial law that has just been adopted. In this case, the issue is that environmentally friendly cars should be taxed less than cars which pollute. That is also why the European Union can approve this at all. They think it is a healthy principle that the polluter pays.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112104	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112111	It was a little bit, because sir... Martin Lidegaard could not fully understand the position of the Enhedslisten in relation to these amendments. Now we consider this draft law to be a really bad proposal at all, and it is of course true that we can just end up voting 'no' at the third reading. After all, we do not understand why the Radical Left has gone on board this, because everything else equally has a negative effect on an electric car market which, in our opinion, continues to need birth aid. This is flaunting on a real fucking law to tell you the truth. In fact, we also take the view in principle that we do not think that we should have laid down for the European Union. If we had been in a deal, we would have agreed to the attic of 800,000 kroner, and we would have been in exactly the same situation. If, if I may say so, we had put up with the fact that an official in the EU system has found out that this could be state aid, then we would have protested violently against it. In fact, we do not believe that this is something that the European Union should interfere with, and we think it should have taken the fight. And since it's already a real piece of shit, we don't want to go on board this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112227	Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112232	And that's not what we're asking of Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested. What I am just asking is whether the Enhedslisten will vote for an improvement or whether they will vote against an improvement; whether they will contribute 25 million. kr. extra for electric car owners and electric car buyers, or whether they vote against it. There are no obligations in this. Moreover, there is no such thing in the agreement. And I would like to make a commitment today to the Enhedslisten: if they can see the 90 seats in this Parliament hall that are involved in making a better deal, then the Radical Left is ready. We have fought, we have looked for what we have asked, and we have considered that the fact that there is a green party in this agreement means that we can get ongoing improvements, and we have already proven this in several rounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112314	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112317	Then they should have known our visiting time... that the Radical Left should have done so much when we had the negotiations. After all, there were a great many proposals both from ourselves, from the SF and from the Alternative to finance a continued tax exemption, which was what we were going for, i.e. a continued tax exemption, for which we are quite sure we could probably have created a majority. So there were proposals for a continued tax exemption. We are not going to end this by starting to patch up a legislative proposal which, in fact, destroys the electric car market, presumably stalls it, at least in part. We don't want to get involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112357	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112401	I know that the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radical Left are not something that is near a majority in this Parliament, and unfortunately there is also a way that we had to do it in this area. I have not heard any other party wishing to give more favourable terms to electric cars. On the contrary, we have heard many parties wish to give less favourable conditions to electric cars. So that illusion that we could have done something else, I'd like to get rid of it. Then I just have to say that I obviously misunderstood. I just thought that the principle of Enhedslisten was that when you could do something that went in the right direction, even if it was a small step in the right direction, you voted for it and when it went in the wrong direction, even if it was a small step, you voted against it. But that principle is evidently intended to be broken with today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112439	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questioners, thank you for that. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112455	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 outside the report by the tax minister as adopted. They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 by the Minister of Taxation. The vote is closed. In favour 66 (S, V, ALT, RV, SF and 1 (KF) (by mistake)) voted against 31 (DF and EL), abstaining 11 (LA and KF). The proposal is adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5 outside the report by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Six by the Minister of Taxation. The vote is closed. In favour of 65 (S, V, ALT, RV and SF), against 33 (DF, EL and 2 (LA) (by mistake)), abstentions 10 (LA and KF). The proposal is adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 7 outside the report by the tax minister as adopted. It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9 by the Minister of Taxation. The vote is closed. In favour 65 (S, V, ALT, RV and SF), against 31 (DF and EL), abstentions 12 (LA and KF). The proposal was adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10 by the Minister of Taxation. The vote is closed. In favour 65 (S, V, AL, RV and SF), against 30 (DF, 4 (LA) (by mistake) and KF), abstentions 12 (EL and LA). The proposal is adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 8 and 11-16 outside the report by the tax minister as adopted. They are adopted. Then I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112731	Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112749	There is a bit as if we have reached another package in the car owners' package calendar from Christiansborg. But this is such a small package, which is about the fact that those who travel over the Storebælt Bridge to get to work must have another twenty in deductions, and that is where we have, in all tranquillity, put forward proposals that we also think the rail commuters should have that. Because it's fine to give a carrot to go to work, but we don't think there should be a carrot to change from train to car. That is why we have tabled that amendment. The alternative has tabled a slightly more limited amendment to the effect that the train commuters should, after all, have DKK 3.50. extra in deductions. There, of course, we will vote in favour of their proposals in the second round if our own people are voted down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112835	There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218112849	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL). That concludes voting time. In favour of 9 (EL), against 99 votes (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF). The amendment has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (S, SF and RV), and a vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour, 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113006	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Nobody wants to speak. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113048	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113100	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113135	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113213	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113244	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113333	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 outside the report by the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate as adopted. It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113400	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113422	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA and ALT)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113447	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113519	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113534	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL). A vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions were 9 (ALT and SF). The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled by the same minority (EL), lapsed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 3 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 12 (EL and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The proposal has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 4 by the same minority (EL), which was rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3. 5 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The proposal has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 6 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 12 (EL and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 8 and 9, tabled by the same minority (EL), lapsed. Then we shall conclude by voting on Amendment No. 7 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions were 9 (ALT and SF). The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113833	Please leave the hall in good order. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113859	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should then go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218113929	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218114006	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218114014	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218114044	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Monday 21 December 2015. First, we need a explanatory statement, and the rapporteur for the questions is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218114114	This question is about a special session which will be held at the UN in April of next year. And although it is a rather funny name, it is a very big and important international event that needs to review drug policy in the United Nations. For at least 40 years, the UN and international drug policy have built a lot on a repressive approach, that is, on penalties and sanctions, on police and prison sentences, but international developments are moving in a new direction. Reports have been made, most recently by the Global Commission on Drug Policy with among others. Kofi Annan in the lead, who declares the war on drugs or the war on drugs to be completely failed. These are some of the ideas underlying the conference or special session to be held at the United Nations. This question is so very clear about what will be Denmark's position in this regard, i.e. when we, together with many other countries, have to discuss international drugs policy. The written answers we have received from the Minister so far show that Denmark has settled down, it might be said, in the slipstream of the EU, with a focus on being balanced, as it says, in the approach to restricting the supply of drugs, but also to limit the problems of demand through prevention. It has been argued that drugs policy must be based on human rights, that the death penalty for drug crimes must be abolished and, as a third thing, that civil society must be more involved. And that's good pointers. I think everyone agrees on that, but the big question will then be the question of decriminalization and regulation of markets, what we will probably also be discussing today. There are many countries that have already embarked on a new path internationally and which are thinking many, many new ideas. These are some of the countries that are most severely affected, one might say, such over a broad spectrum. And because what needs to be discussed is so crucially new and because it may be so crucial what a country like Denmark will say in that connection, we hope that we can have a substantively good discussion in the Parliamentary Assembly so that the decisions on Denmark's line in this connection are not adopted in a closed room by some individual civil servants, but actually have a political backing behind it from the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218114411	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Socialists. No, I'm sorry. The minister has to go first. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218114425	After all, it is the President who is in charge of the battle. Thank you for the floor. I am asked in the question how the government feels about the UN General Assembly's special session on drugs in 2016. UNGASS, as the special session is called, takes place from 19 to 21 April in New York. Preparations are already under way and I would very much like to return to them. This is not the first UNGASS on drugs. However, we have to go back to 1998 to find the latest one. Much has changed since then, but the international nature of the drug problem has not changed. It is true that the drug problem is experienced primarily at local level, and the problem may have many different faces. Within the boundaries of each country, the problem may look very different. In Denmark the problem has one face on the street on Vesterbro and another at the nightclub in the inner city. Outside Copenhagen it can look quite different. If countries are combined, the problem is also very different. In Denmark, for example, we are struggling with far too many drug deaths. In e.g. Afghanistan and Colombia, where drugs are produced, have other issues to contend with. This also applies to the so-called transit countries, such as the United States of America. Mexico. Here, the number of deaths caused by drug crime can be counted in thousands. Thus, although the drug problem is experienced locally and has different faces, it is basically a cross-border problem. For example: the efforts of producer and transit countries to reduce the supply of drugs are of importance to us in the traditional downstream countries, and our efforts to reduce demand, through prevention, treatment and damage reduction, are of importance to producer and transit countries. Moreover, it is no longer quite so simple to divide the countries up in this way. In traditional transit and producer countries, there are also abuses, and drug production is also seen in traditional downstream countries. The essence is that the drug problem is international. That is why the countries have a common interest in, and also a shared responsibility for, the fight against the problem. It's in that light that you need to see UNGASS. When we talk about UNGASS, it is important to bear in mind that not only the problem of drugs is very different from one place to another, but indeed so is the response to the problem. Although in our part of the world we have not found the stones of the wise and continue to have our challenges, for example. We have managed to develop our efforts in the face of the far too many deaths caused by drugs. Developments are linked to our approach to the drug problem. It is an approach that is reflected in the Danish line during the preparation of UNGASS. So what is this line I'm talking about? What is it that we on the Danish side would like to see highlighted in the final document from UNGASS? We would like to emphasise that drug policies must be balanced and evidence-based. There should be no one-sided focus on limiting the supply of drugs through bans and controls. Drug demand must also be reduced through prevention, treatment and damage reduction. In some parts of the world, bans and controls are more or less alone. The balance is lacking when efforts are not also being made to prevent and treat drug abuse and to reduce the damage caused by the abuse. The effort shall be based as far as possible on evidence. Of course, we should not just leave the drugs policy to the experts. It is ultimately the responsibility of politicians, but we, as politicians, must also listen to the experts. After all, an effort has more in it if we believe not only that it works but actually have the experts' words for its evidence. In the UNGASS final document, we would also like to emphasise that drug policies must be based on human rights. It also fits well with the main objective of the United Nations Convention on Drugs. It is, in fact, to protect health and welfare. This is a view which, unfortunately, not all have the same understanding. This means, among other things, that in some places drug crimes are punishable by death. As a natural consequence of drug policies being based on human rights, the government also believes that the death penalty for drug crimes should be abolished. In the final document, we would also like to emphasise the importance of civil society. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the development of drug policies locally, nationally and internationally. Locally and in a Danish context, the municipalities as responsible for the concrete action can benefit from the involvement of local vulnerable councils. Nationally, we can benefit from drawing on user and family organisations. For example: contributed the organisations with experience to the mapping of the action that was completed in the autumn. Internationally, civil society also has something to offer. In the EU, the Civil Society Forum on Drugs has been established, which meets the EU institutions and the Member States. The United Nations Drugs Commission, based in Vienna, is associated with the Vienna NGO Committee on Drugs, which is very active in the collections of the Drugs Commission. This Committee, together with the New York NGO Committee on Drugs, has established the Civil Society Task Force. The purpose of the task force is to contribute to the preparation of the UNGASS. Unfortunately, civil society is seen in some places more as a opponent than as a co-player. There are different views on the role to be played by civil society locally, nationally and internationally. I find this very unfortunate, because in Denmark we have some very good experiences of working together and involving civil society. The line I have described here, that is to say on balance, evidence, human rights and civil society, is not new. This is the same line taken by the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the SF in international drug cooperation, and the SR government continued the line in preparation for UNGASS. In August, I indicated to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly that we in the government intend to maintain that line, and that is still the case. I also indicated to the committee that we will continue to stress that the Danish line is reflected in a common EU position. In fact, Denmark will first and foremost gain maximum influence in the preparation of UNGASS if our line is taken by the EU Presidency on behalf of all the Member States. That is why, in the course of our preparations, we also attach priority to participating in and contributing to the discussions in which the common position of the European Union is established. So far, then, the Danish line is also reflected in the common EU position, a position which was last put forward last week when the United Nations Commission on Drugs met in Vienna. In the context of the European Union, therefore, we agree that nacotics policies must be balanced and evidence-based, that they must be based on human rights and that civil society is of great importance. We would all like this to be highlighted in the final document from UNGASS. In the European Union, we also agree to support the United Nations Convention on Narcotic Drugs. That support is important because the conventions provide a binding framework which is common to practically all countries. Precisely because the drugs problem is cross-border, it is to the benefit of all to have a common framework for action. It is, moreover, a flexible framework. Even though the conventions are old, they do not prevent efforts from being developed. For example: We in Denmark have introduced a system of prescribed heroin and a system of drug consumption rooms. The latter, moreover, has been our common priority, at least a large part of us, in the pool agreement, and some of us here also in the context of the financial regulation. In our view, this does not prevent conventions from doing so. If anyone, for example... The UN monitoring body questions this, we take the dialogue and explain how we view it. Similar arrangements have been introduced in some countries. In other countries, things have changed quite differently, so the situation is not the same, and there can be good reasons for differences. Within the EU alone, countries have adapted quite differently. Yeah, we're just going to the other side of the Øresund to find out. There must be room for differences. This is also possible because of the flexibility of the conventions, which is why the conventions are supported by all the Member States of the European Union. In addition to providing a broad framework for the development of action at national level, UN drug conventions also legitimise the use of drugs for medical and scientific purposes. That is an important point, because drugs are, after all, part of many medicines that are absolutely indispensable in our healthcare system. It is a misunderstanding if countries implement conventions in a way that unnecessarily restricts the legitimate use of drugs. The fight against drug abuse must clearly not mean that, for example, it does not mean that there is a risk of drug abuse. cancer patients cannot receive painkillers or that surgery must be carried out without anesthesia. That was never the intention of the conventions. Access to drugs for entirely legitimate purposes is therefore also one of the points that are included in the common EU position. I have now explained how we in the government feel about UNGASS. As I said, we maintain the Danish line so far. This is a line that I also hope there will be support for here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218115530	Thank you, Minister. Then we have reached the first rapporteur, and that is Yildiz Akdogan, the Socialists. Sorry, we just have some confusion up here. Pernille Skipper must go first as rapporteur. I'm sorry. My learning curve is still very steep.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218115557	I must also admit that sometimes I could be told everything about the order of this. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As the Minister also mentioned, it is a very exciting discussion that Denmark is going to participate in UNGASS. I would say that the war on drugs has been going on for more than 40 years and it has failed completely. That should be clear to everyone. More and more penalties, harder fines, minimum penalties, more police and many more sanctions have been added, but the problems have not diminished. Even if you look at Denmark's own figures, what the minister also mentioned, it is striking that we still have so many deaths, and according to the Danish Health Authority, the number of users we have in Denmark is only increasing despite the punishments and more sanctions. This is the same trend seen worldwide. Last year, the United Nations estimated that the number of drug users worldwide has now increased to 250 million people. And from just 2008 to 2012, that number increased by 18%. So it is really crazy, so it has to be said that very little has come out of the line that has been taken so far. At the same time, drugs finance organised crime. It is the most lucrative form of international crime that exists, and in 2005 it was estimated that there was a total worldwide sales value of 332 billion drugs. Dollars. It is an incredibly large amount that goes into the pockets of organized criminals who spend that money building power bases, committing other crime, undermining our rule of law and our democracy. Especially in the countries of South America, we have seen how drug cartels have almost taken over entire states and oppress populations. Human costs are enormous, and it is an unfortunate fate when there is a person who has problems with the abuse of drugs. It has social consequences, and it has health consequences. Both in the richest countries and in the poorest countries, we can see how abuse can hit people really, really hard. But it is not only the substance itself that causes the problems. It is also the way in which world leaders handle the problems and try to deal with the existence of drugs. Drug-related violence has exploded in countries like Mexico and Honduras. In Mexico, I think it is 80,000 people who have been killed in the fight between the drug cartels and the military since 2006. Eighty thousand people have died, not from drugs, but as a consequence of drugs. In 33 countries there is the death penalty for drug crimes. They execute about a thousand people every year, and in a country like the United States, about half a million people are imprisoned for drug crimes. Smaller crimes such as possession for personal consumption can therefore lead to very long prison sentences in a country with which we are often compared. Everywhere in the world, we see how the control approach of police and harsh penalties prevents people from seeking health services and help, which means that it is becoming harder to combat hepatitis and HIV. As the Minister also mentioned, human rights have been forgotten in the fight against drugs. Killing, torture, working camps without conviction and the death penalty are not uncommon in the world, and both the sponsors are affected, but also the users who are actually victims and need help. That is why it is certainly not insignificant when the Minister talks about human rights and talks about bearing human rights and the fight against the death penalty into UNGASS. On the contrary, it is really, really important. I would like to say that we can at least support it in the Enhedslisten. But I also believe that if we are to solve the problems, we must recognise two things that the Minister has yet to acknowledge in his speech. Firstly, a huge proportion of the drug-related problems with violence and social and health consequences are not only the result of the drugs themselves. It is also a result of the way in which we try to combat drugs. It will be a problem in itself. Secondly, we must realise that the objective of a totally drug-free world is utopian and that, if we maintain the utopia, it is detrimental to what should be the real objective of achieving the maximum possible reduction in the damage caused by people taking drugs. At present, therefore, there is, as a general rule, an approach which exacerbates the problems rather than remedying them. And we know from our own little duckdam in Denmark that people can actually live without harming themselves without harming others and the surrounding society and perhaps even contributing positively, if we do have the right approach to the problems rather than throwing people into prison and throwing the key away. Fortunately, the international winds change, and I think that the Minister has yet to respond to this and I hope that she will go up again, so that we can get an answer • how Denmark will deal with the countries of UNGASS, which are fighting for them to also be allowed to try decriminalization in their countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120158	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120214	Thank you. As the Minister also stressed in his speech, a balanced approach to this area is extremely important. In social democracy, our approach to drugs policy is balanced and evidence-based. This means that we are not only trying to eliminate the supply of drugs by banning, punishing and police action, but are also trying to prevent people from buying drugs at all, by pursuing a policy of prevention, treating and reducing damage, for example. in the form of a fixerum. So our drugs policy is on two legs. It is therefore also important to emphasise that we are obviously opposed to the death penalty for drug crimes, such as drug trafficking. is in some of the Asian member states of the UN. Similarly, we are not in favour of the UN drug conventions being implemented so hard in national legislation that, for example, we do not want it to be implemented so badly. can cause pain relief to terminally ill patients. The minister was in on prescribed heroin. It goes without saying that if the patient needs it, it must also be possible. In the light of this, on behalf of the Socialists, the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, I should like to read out a joint proposal for adoption. It reads: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes: V 13).
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120504	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120508	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I think, if I may be honest, that the rapporteur overlooks a very, very important point in his speech, and that is how Denmark is going to stand in the debate which will inevitably be on UNGASS on the possibilities of decriminalisation. The rapporteur reads out a proposal for adoption which says that conventions must be interpreted flexibly so that they are not used to ban the entirely legitimate use of drugs, for example. medicines. We can only agree with that. But what is Denmark's position when countries in South America, Central America and elsewhere want to be able to try to decriminalise, that is, with a new path which is not to throw people into prison, but possibly to legalize parts of the drug and decriminalise? Who should Denmark support in that discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120611	Thank you for the question. I think the Minister also mentioned this in his speech. It is extremely important that Denmark speaks in an overall EU context, and I am sure that when we have, like ourselves, put our line forward, a common EU line will also be presented in the forthcoming negotiations at this session in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120638	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120639	Well, I asked what that line should be. So, what do the Social Democrats think? I do not really care who presents the line, whether it is Denmark or the European Union. Or I'm not, but let's pretend I don't give a shit about it. What I am asking is: what do the Socialists think the line should be? Should it be the case that we should support those voices that would like to be able to go further and decriminalize? I'm not asking about decriminalization at home. I wonder whether we should not support those forces who are actually trying to do something else and who would like to be able to do so within the UN system as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120717	Well, I think that in the text I read and which is a joint proposal for the adoption of the various parties, there is very clear what line we would like from the Socialists. And that is, of course, that we need to have a balanced approach to this, where we have a drugs policy that is both balanced and evidence-based and takes human rights into account, and where civil society, in particular, is of great importance. I think it is a little in the text that I read, and that is our line too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120748	Thank you. There is another brief comment from Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120752	Thank you for the floor. It is to follow up on Mrs Pernille Skipper's question, because what we in the alternative think is important is that there are actually some really progressive countries out there, among other things. Portugal, which has had very good results with this. It is very important for us that Denmark, under the auspices of the United Nations, helps to support those countries that dare to go the decriminalisation path, so that others can also look at their systems and learn from it. And I would really like to know what the position of the Social Democratic Party is on this in relation to, among other things. Portugal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120827	I am not quite in the Portuguese model, I must admit, but as I said earlier to Mrs Pernille Skipper, it is very clear that our line is along the lines of the previous government in this area. And we still believe that our influence can best be exercised through a common EU line.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120853	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120855	However, is it not important that there is support for countries that are actually trying to go new ways? In other words, we can see what can be seen from figures and statistics in those countries, including ourselves, which criminalise drug abuse. Is it not important that we back the fact that there are other ways of doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120917	I always think it is important for us to be inspired by other models, but in the end there must be a unified voice. And there I think that Denmark is best served by the line taken by the EU as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120931	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218120934	Thank you. As far back as 2008, the WHO concluded that there is no correlation between the number of drug addicts in one country and national policy in this area. It simply cannot be said that if a country has more strict legislation, there are fewer drug addicts. There are, for example: No difference in consumption in Norway and Sweden, although Norway has a more lenient policy, and the likelihood that an American has tried cocaine is eight times higher than that of a Dutchman. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on this: you simply cannot see a connection between the more strict a regulation there is, the fewer drug problems or addicts there are. That's one thing. The second is that I would also like to follow up on the Portuguese model. It has been seen that, 13 years ago, after decriminalizing it, consumption has not increased. It has actually fallen among young people, and the number of diseases and deaths has decreased.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121044	Thank you for the question. I do not think I mentioned anything in my speech that strict legislation necessarily leads to fewer consumers. I think it is extremely important to prevent this too, and I mentioned this in my speech. This isn't a question of either or, and it's easy to work hard at trying to have this balancing act. In the social democracy, for example, we have. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my support for the introduction of the 'fixerum', which has also been introduced and which also has a positive effect. So it's not a question of either or.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121123	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121124	The rapporteur's colleague, Flemming Møller Mortensen, just before the elections, in which he was asked about the views of the Social Democrats on possible decriminalisation or partial decriminalisation, was out of the question saying that he might be able to see himself and the Social Democrats in some of the references that have come from, among others. The WHO, that something radically new has to be done, so he wanted to take it up in a hearing in the Committee on Health. I thought that was a little new from the Socialists, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether this is also something to be looked at. For example, SF wants to... I would have liked to have set up a commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121207	I can only say that if my colleague and our health rapporteur, Flemming Møller Mortensen, have spoken for a hearing, then I support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121217	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121227	One can say that I have moved into an area of the UN General Assembly which I do not normally deal with, but in that it is about drugs, it is very much about health and I have been a health rapporteur for the last eight years. The Minister has very well explained why we support the way in which the government has chosen to enter this conference and the Social Democrat rapporteur has read out a proposal for adoption which we have endorsed. But I would like to take up the day-to-day situation in Denmark when we talk about drugs policy. When we compare ourselves with the other UN countries, we have come a long way in reducing damage. Today, as I think the Minister mentioned, we have medically prescribed heroin, we have health rooms, we have drug consumption rooms, we have syringe delivery, 24-hour treatment places, etc. So we are too many of the other countries a pioneering country. Actually, I was on Monday in the fixelancen at Vesterbro. This is not something that we in the Danish People's Party would have liked, but which we have now helped to allocate money to through pool funds. When I was there, there were two people who were fixing, and I had a conversation with them. And when I read this text of the Convention and read the questions and answers that have been given, I have to say that it is, of course, far from what these people need. We are simply decriminalising, and we are simply allowing them to get even more drugs instead of worrying about why they have become drug addicts, how we can ensure that they have a daily life in Denmark in which they can live, and how we can ensure that there are not so many drugs on the street. We know, of course, that Denmark has become one of these transit countries, which we hear about many of the other countries of the United Nations as well. When we ask Swedes and Norwegians, they say that Denmark has become a transit country, especially after we lifted our border controls. It turned out, when we had border guards for a short period of time under the VK government, that a great deal of drugs were actually taken at the border. But we must no longer do that, because there is no majority in favour of setting up controls, even if customs officials tell us that what they can go around in rest places does not count in comparison at all. Fortunately, we have now established the area so that we can make sure that we can get better at taking some of the drugs that come into our country. But what I miss when we have this debate is how we can ensure that we do not get there, that we become an abuser. Many of the souls I am talking to, especially the two people I spoke to on Monday, have had a life that has made them reach where they feel they should sedate themselves with drugs. There we should be much better at helping them. One thing is that they become addicts and that we help them with prescribed heroin and help them take their fix. Something else is that some of them have no place to live. They may be allowed to go to a welfare home where they cannot then see their children who have been forcibly removed. Or they cannot get their teeth fixed because, as they are told: You have your cash help and you have no rent. That's what I heard from those people. What they said was that they want a completely different effort in this area. So I can understand some of the questions that are being asked about how we should go out to the rest of the world and tell them what their drug policy should be like. When we talk about what other countries do, I would like it to be the case that we in Denmark decide our legislation and the others their legislation. However, we want legislation to comply with human rights, that it should be based on human rights and that the death penalty for drug crimes should be abolished, precisely as we say in the text of the resolution. That's our approach to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121714	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121718	Thank you. The rapporteur is, of course, widely recognised in order to take a professional and factual basis on these matters. At least that's what I hear, and that's what I'm experiencing. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether she can confirm that the most important thing is to try to tackle the problem and not just throw people into prison because they are drug addicts, but to try, as the rapporteur has said, to prevent and help those who then fall into it to stop and have a better life in that way. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121759	I am not in favour of decriminalising it, if that is what the rapporteur is referring to. But I think we should also look at what we can replace when we talk about Denmark. What other nations do, they decide in their democracy. I would like us to be allowed to decide for ourselves what we do in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121818	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121820	I fully agree with that. Now, of course, UNGASS is also a forum where we can say that we can take these international discussions because drugs are precisely cross-border. We can see that there is a global turnover of 380 billion. kr. The only area that is worth more, so to speak, is the oil industry. So it is global, and this war on drugs that we have seen has shown that there are criminals and terrorist organisations that have made billions of dollars on this, and indeed we are seeing an ever-increasing problem. That's actually why I'm asking about this. Just briefly, I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on the Portuguese model, which has just seen a reduction in the number of addicts and a decrease in the number of HIV-infected people, and which has not seen an increase in the number of addicts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121911	Now I think it is difficult to compare countries. I have read about how they have done it in Portugal. After all, it is not so long since they have started, and it can be exciting to see how it develops over the years. I would also like to come down and see exactly what you are doing and what it is that prevents people from taking drugs. But it is certainly not our intention to decriminalise it or legalize it in Denmark. That is certainly not our wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121938	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218121940	Thank you. This question debate is not really about Danish drugs policy at all. It is about the special session that will be held in the UN in April, and about how Denmark stands there. One of the great discussions that will be there will not be about whether Denmark should decriminalise, but whether it should be legal within the UN conventions for other countries to decriminalise. When the rapporteur says that what other countries are doing, they must do so, I understand that the Danish People's Party supports the fact that Denmark must also fight in the UN for those countries that want to decriminalise to be allowed to do so. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122036	No, that's not really understood. I believe that we must remain neutral, because if we are fighting, we are not neutral. Then you help influence what other countries have to do. It would be the same as if other countries were to fight for us to do something specific. I believe that this is very clear in the adoption text in which the Danish People's Party is involved, and that is what we want to work for, also under the Convention. I know it is a convention, but I also say that I do not need to repeat everything that the Minister has just said and with which I agree. I am just referring to what Danish legislation is like and what we do at home. I think it is far too much to go on talking about decriminalizing, because we will never get rid of the drugs. We need to keep people from taking it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122119	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122121	After all, it is precisely the UN conventions that are currently preventing countries that want to decriminalise from decriminalising. So if you don't rewrite the UN conventions, you prevent countries from doing what they want to do, but it seems that the Danish People's Party is fine. My second question is: the rapporteur says that if we decriminalise, there will be more drugs. Does the Danish People's Party have any evidence that higher penalties can reduce the number of people taking hard drugs, or vice versa, that decriminalisation should mean that more people would start taking them? Do you have any documentation at all, just a little bit of documentation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122206	I do not know exactly where the rapporteur got it from, that I had said that there would be more drugs. I don't think I mentioned that in any of what I said. I believe that we need a different approach, because, as I say, drugs will remain there. But we have to do something more so people don't take drugs. In other words, we must take action in the social field to ensure that people have a decent life so that they do not have to escape from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122231	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122235	I too would like to follow up on Mrs Pernille Skipper's speech, because I think it is extremely important that we also learn from each other, that is, that we learn from them out in the world. I have to say that I personally think that the experience gained in Portugal is really, really interesting. I would like us in the United Nations system to support those countries that actually have the courage to go other ways, because it is not the case that the figures and statistics we have here at home show that things are going the right way. So I am surprised that the Danish People's Party will not support the fact that we can influence the UN system to allow decriminalisation. I am not saying that this is the way to go in Denmark, but it is interesting to follow countries that have the courage to go other ways that actually have positive effects in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122321	I think it is very important to follow them, but it does not mean that I think we should back them up. When you are against decriminalisation, it is difficult to support other countries in doing what you are against. That is why I say that we shall be neutral.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122338	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122339	But it is the case today that they do not actually have the opportunity to do so because of the UN conventions. That's what we want to soften up on. Is there not a problem there for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122349	No, I don't think so. I think we are making it very clear in the text we have adopted. And as far as I know, no country wants to open the convention, so it's a little difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122400	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122409	Thank you for the floor. In the spring, the United Nations will hold its first drug summit in almost 20 years. The UN General Assembly is holding a so-called special session, UNGASS, only with the drug challenges on the agenda. This special session is an important milestone in achieving the policy objectives set by the Member States in 2009 under the heading "The Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem'. It defines both the measures to be addressed by the Member States and the objectives which it agrees to achieve by 2019. It is against this background that the question debate has been raised today, and I would like to sign for that. On the left side, we believe that the challenges in the area of drugs must be tackled internationally through cross-border cooperation and common conventions, but also through national action. Both the European Union and the United Nations have a key role to play, and it should not be a secret that I hope that Denmark can continue to cooperate with Europol so that, in the area of drugs, we too can combat international crime through cross-border cooperation. In the Left, we look very seriously at the challenges that the drugs are giving us, both in terms of prevention, the treatment of drug abuse and the damage that unfortunately goes with drug abuse. On the left side, we have supported a series of initiatives, ranging from the 2016 rate pool, where we strengthen the prevention of overdose deaths with Nalokson extradition, so that abusers can help abusers, to the spread of a number of treatment models, for example. The U-turn model, the U18 model and the family treatment model and the previous rate pool initiatives including: medically prescribed heroin for the most affected drug addicts, the right to medical interviews within 3 days and a strengthened effort for young people who have become ill with hash smoking and have received a psychosis. Sadly, we have seen too many boring examples of the fatal consequences of drug abuse for individuals and families. We have just agreed, with the latest wage-pool agreement, that next year we will be dealing with a legislative proposal to strengthen preventive action for pregnant addicts, so that we can strengthen the possibilities of helping pregnant addicts and, hopefully, by doing so, avoid harm to the young child. On the left side, we support the EU's drugs strategy, focusing in particular on reducing supply, demand, coordination and international cooperation. In view of the fact that the UN Conference will undoubtedly be an opportunity for some to discuss the UN Convention, it is important for me to stress that we in the Left do not want conventions to be implemented in such a way that they cannot be applied, for example. cannabis for medical or scientific purposes. And we had the debate on medical cannabis as recently as last week in the Chamber. During the debate, I made it very clear on behalf of the Left that we would like to see research initiatives strengthened with cannabis. The conventions must not shy away from this, which, moreover, they do not. On the other hand, we in the Left cannot support the legalisation of drugs as drugs, and we are fully in line with both the previous government, with the current government and with the United Nations. There is a text of adoption, including: takes the view that the Danish position continues to be based on the balanced and evidence-based approach of drug policies, reducing drug demand through prevention, treatment and harm reduction, on the need for drug policies to be based on the abolition of human rights and the death penalty for drug crimes, and on the importance of civil society in the development and implementation of drug policies. We in the Left can back that up completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122807	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122814	Thank you. It is of course interesting that both the Minister and the rapporteur from the Left are doing so much to mention the concept of evidence. But what we can see is that there is no evidence that the course we have in Denmark right now is working. We see more deaths, for example. In the period 2008-2014 there have been 17 deaths, more than 200 wounded, more than 300 shootings, and more than 1,200 firearms have been confiscated by the police in connection with drug-related crime. So, in this light and in the light of the experience of Portugal, could the Left be interested in testing a model that is about decriminalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122858	No, the Left is not in favour of decriminalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122904	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122905	Maybe it's about political courage. When the current Prime Minister of the Left was Minister for Health, he said in relation to prescribed heroin for therapeutic purposes that we should then have the courage to do what works. In Portugal, their strategy seems to be working. Would it not be an idea to have the courage to try the same strategy in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218122936	I am familiar with 252 patients who have taken part in the medically prescribed heroin trial, which, moreover, has previously been led by the Left. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we must have the courage to test things that have not necessarily been tried before. What is our starting point is that we must prevent and help those who are in drug abuse out of drug abuse. That is the objective, and it is precisely a very good example of heroin prescribed by doctors. If you read the evaluation of the experimental scheme, you can see that it actually shows that drug users feel helped.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123020	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123024	If you look at the experiences in the world at the same time, for example. In Portugal, it can be seen that the number of drugrelated deaths has decreased dramatically since decriminalisation, making possession of drugs legally for personal consumption. That's why I find it hard to understand with the good experience we have here from home with drug room and heroin treatment that the Left is not willing to try. This leads me to the question whether the Left believes that the existence of a severe punishment can mean that fewer people are taking drugs. Does the Left think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123117	So now it has to be said that the overall objective of Danish drugs policy is to limit the access of new drug addicts. So my starting point is that what works, what needs to work, and what we need to ensure we have evidence about, is that we have strengthened prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123136	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123138	I'll take that as a no. Nor does the Left believe that the existence of a high penalty is actually what prevents people from taking drugs. That is also absolutely correct; that is what all evidence shows: Decade control, police action, harder and harder penalties both in Denmark and in other countries have not lowered consumption, on the contrary. So can the Left confirm that Denmark, too, in the special UN assembly in which we are going to participate now, must support those countries that want to have the opportunity to pursue a decriminalisation policy? I am not saying that we should do this at home, but should we not support their ability to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123219	In other words, if I am to follow Mrs Pernille Skipper's thinking here, it will require that we make amendments to the convention. And I know that no country has insisted on amending the conventions. Having said that, and we are talking about what seems preventive, I have no doubt for a moment that penalties of a certain size also have a preventive effect. But there are other things on the palette that must ensure that, overall, we have limited access by new drug addicts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123254	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123305	Thank you. I apologize for having a cold. The Liberal Alliance does not regard the use of drugs in any way as harmless. The serious damage and risks associated with abuse are well known. But it has been shown for many years that the solution is not punishment. The existing policy has failed. Half a century of criminalisation has led neither to a reduction in the number of addicts nor to a reduction in crime, on the contrary. Why continue with something that we've established doesn't work? When you take the heroin from a drug addict, he doesn't stop taking drugs. You may just need to make a new break-in to buy new drugs. This is a restriction on the freedom of citizens, which harms far more than it benefits. Crime and punishment should only be used against harmful acts against others. International conventions say you have a right to privacy. Human Rights claims that it is a human right to be able to control your own body. Drug addicts are among the most vulnerable in our society. They're among those who have the hardest time. They are often rejected in emergency rooms, and they cannot receive treatment in the general system where patients will not be treated if they have multiple diagnoses, as is often the case for drug addicts, such as the United Kingdom. can also be HIV-infected or have other secondary diseases. And often they're homeless. These people need help, not punishment. The motion for a resolution by the Left states that the Danish line must work to ensure that drug policies are balanced between control and treatment. We heard the Minister say the same thing. But it is a difficult goal to steer by when no one seems really knows the cost of control. The closest I have been able to get to it is a one-off expenditure in 2004 of 52 million. kr. and then approx. 6 million kr. in annual operating expenditure. And when held against it approx. 1 billion I do not think that this is a balance. In the Liberal Alliance, we are pleased that in Denmark we have established an independent committee of experts in which user organisations and several of the most insightful experts in the field will participate, so that we can ensure a well-founded, up-to-date and coordinated approach to drugs. That is what we call the involvement of civil society. We are also pleased that drugs have been found for drug consumption spaces, the so-called fixerums, so that addicts can consume their drug in a safer environment and with much less risk of disease infection and death. We call on the government to contribute to the UN Special Session on Drugs with a declaration calling for a breach of the prohibition policy because it undermines health and basic human rights, as is also pointed out by the ca. 150 civil society organisations in the new worldwide •Stop the Harm • Demand Drug Policy Reform • Initiative. UN bodies such as the WHO, UNAIDS, the United Nations Development Programme and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights have also been increasingly critical and increasingly recommended new drug policies that are not based on the criminalisation of drug addicts. The same is marked by prominent organizations such as Human Rights Watch, the International Red Cross and the Global Commission on Drug Policy. I therefore call for us to vote on Monday in favour of the proposal for adoption tabled by the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Alternative, Radical and Liberal Alliance. And then I would like to read out the proposal for adoption. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that during the preparations for the UN General Assembly Special Session (UNGASS) on Drugs in 2016, the government has focused on, inter alia: drug policies must be based on human rights, the abolition of the death penalty for drug crimes and the reduction of drug demand through prevention, treatment and harm reduction. The Folketing supports this. Furthermore, the Danish Parliament notes that decades of war against drugs with the unilateral and excessive use of bans and sanctions against users have proved both ineffective and directly harmful to users and the surrounding community, as also the Clobal Commission On Drug Policy concluded in 2014. The Danish Parliament instructs the government, on behalf of Denmark, to focus on the right of users to health, as well as to support the work to allow countries to try to decriminalise users. The Danish Parliament also supports WHO's recommendation to Denmark to develop policies and laws that decriminalise parts of the drugs area, thus reducing the use of confinement. • V 14).
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123924	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218123938	Thank you. In a previous letter to the Parliamentary Committee on Health and the Elderly, the Minister has stated that the government, and now I quote: will work to highlight balanced and evidence-based drug policies, so that the focus is not unilaterally on limiting drug supply through bans and control measures, but also on reducing drug demand through prevention, treatment and harm reduction. In the alternative, we fully agree that the focus should be on the prevention and treatment of drug addicts. This applies in general to our social, health and justice policies, all of which are based on the priority of empathy. However, prevention and treatment should not only be included, it should simply be the starting point of Danish drug policy, both nationally and internationally. So in the alternative, we also fully agree that Denmark should work for an evidence-based drug policy, that is, to base its policy on knowledge and experience and proof. The government writes in its government base that much of the social policy effort has no documented effect and that we need to do better. In fact, it is a statement that we are very excited about in the alternative, and we would like to take this opportunity to praise the government for just that statement. When it comes to building its efforts on documentation and evidence, the first step should be to recognise that the decades-long war on drugs has not worked. There is simply no evidence and now I use that word again to ensure that the hard criminalisation of drugs works. On the other hand, over the ages it has led to, for example, the extremely deadly and subversive drug war in Mexico and to widespread violence in many parts of the world. At the same time, the criminalisation of drugs has led, in too many cases, not least internationally, to inappropriate consequences for drug users. We are talking here about marginalisation, social and occupational exclusion and disproportionate punishment in the form of, for example: Incarceration. It is also a fact that Denmark is one of the countries in Europe that has the most drugrelated deaths per year. people with a total of 263 deaths last year. At the same time, the Danish Health Authority estimates that 13,000 people take drugs with syringes and needles in Denmark, and of them between half and two thirds are outside the treatment system. There is simply not enough focus on treatment. So Denmark's policy doesn't work. It's very simple. It doesn't work. That's what these numbers show. And that is why we need to examine alternative approaches to how we can organise a socially sustainable drug policy, both in Denmark and in the rest of the world. Our national and international position should simply reflect a much higher level of ambition. As you know, we are in favour of the legalisation of cannabis. Despite the ban on cannabis, it is readily available on the black market, which finances organised crime. Furthermore, the ban has led to gang wars and violence and unrest, and the police are spending disproportionate resources on enforcing legislation in this area. That was one of the points I raised in my question earlier. So it is clear to us that legalisation of cannabis outweighs the disadvantages. There is no indication that a ban creates reduced cannabis consumption in our population. There are certainly other factors involved when we talk about other substances, which is why it is crucial that we get the subject fully covered. The extent to which the conditions of cannabis apply to other drugs should therefore be examined. Therefore, in the alternative, we would like to emphasise our support for the Drugs Commission, which we can thank the Liberal Alliance for setting up in 2016. It will generate new knowledge in the field and among other things. examine the social and economic consequences of the ban on drugs. We are very much looking forward to following the work that the Commission is doing and which, I hope, can make us even wiser. Because we need to learn more about this and we need to open up our horizons so that we are not stuck in a policy that has been bankrupt for decades. This applies especially to the socially vulnerable in many of the world's countries, which are still suffering hard during the war on drugs. We must help them by introducing a new approach to drugs. It is therefore particularly in the United Nations that we can push for it. There are several organisations and UN bodies that strongly recommend a new policy in this area, and that is the recommendation that we would like to support and be part of. And it is not even because we in Denmark need to take on the role of a pioneer, because we can just look to the south, as we have already mentioned, and look to Portugal, where a very progressive drug policy has been introduced, where criminalisation and stigmatisation and marginalisation of drug addicts have actually been replaced by treatment and rehabilitation. And it has already lowered drug use and received more in treatment; so it has caused drug consumption to simply decrease. So let us listen to the experience they have gained in Portugal and see how we can use them to promote a drug policy in Denmark and in the world based on empathy, experience, knowledge and evidence. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218124447	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218124452	Thank you. The rapporteur said that when criminalising things, there may be a number, what can be said, disadvantages, problems associated with it, and I recognise that too. So, when you criminalize hard drugs, an illegal market can arise there's But couldn't one really use the same logic to say that then we should also legalize or decriminalize in relation to weapons at home? This is not a tricky question, but could one not actually use the same thinking to say that then we should also have total freedom to use weapons at home? Because there is also a black market for that where there are plenty of crime and fighting and shooting groups between them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218124543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218124544	Yes, in the ultimate liberal society you would probably be in favour of it. I think this is about remembering that drugs have an addictive aspect in them. So even if you could, I was about to say, choose freely whether you want to or won't be on this market, whether you want to or don't want to sell and buy drugs, then it can be difficult because you actually depend on your next fix, and therefore there are actually elements coming into this which make it not so free. So no, we could not just say that the same applies to the arms sector. That would be my claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218124614	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And I see no rapporteur for the Radical Left, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218124631	As far back as 1936, the later president of the International Police Association, August Vollmer, stated that drug addiction is not a problem that can be solved through criminalisation. In addition, he stressed that it could never be solved by the police, but that it was first and last a medical problem to be solved by medical experts. It was back in 1936. Where are we now 80 years later? We have had a system based on criminalisation, punishment and imprisonment, with a drug problem that has exploded since then. It has promoted a gigantic criminal market and, according to the United Nations, trafficking in drugs is about 320 billion. dollars, only the oil market has a bigger turnover. In April of next year, the UN General Assembly is holding a special session, which we have heard about several times about drugs, and here there is a very good opportunity for the Danish Government to influence the session in a more sensible and damage-reducing direction. We need to move away from moralism and symbolism policy and instead base our approach and recommendations on an evidence-based basis, on what works. The World Health Organization (WHO) concluded several years ago, on the basis of a large study of the consumption of illegal drugs in 17 countries, that there is no link between national drug legislation and the consumption of drugs by the population. The probability that an American has tried cocaine is eight times higher than it is for a Dutchman, while there is twice as much likelihood that the same American has tried to smoke hash or marijuana. Similarly, there is no difference between consumption in Norway and Sweden, although Norway has a more lenient policy. The Portuguese model, which we have spoken a great deal about today, has just shown that decriminalisation has not led to more abusers; in fact, the number of young people has fallen. The number of drug addicts in treatment increased from 23,000 in 1998 to 38,000 in 2008, and between 2000 and 2008 the annual number of HIV cases among drug users decreased from 907 to 267. In 2014, the WHO published a report calling on world countries for the first time to decriminalise drugs for personal use in order to promote public health. It stated: Countries should work towards developing policies and laws that decriminalise the injection and other use of drugs, thereby reducing the use of confinement. In the SF, we believe that the Portuguese model is very appealing and we have long demanded a commission to investigate the issue. We see that neither the Danish nor the global approach to it today helps in any way. Instead, we have created a very lucrative market for organised criminals, and the Portuguese model is good because you can just go after the backers. The basic idea that you are offered treatment when you are arrested on the street with drugs on you is far to be preferred to police and punishment. The WHO recommends that the decriminalisation of drug use is the key to effectively reducing diseases and injuries, and Human Rights Watch calls on the UN and world governments to decriminalise drugs in small amounts. Neither the Danish nor the global war on drugs has worked. It's time for us to change direction. The cost of both the human and the financial costs is simply too high. And from what I have heard from my fellow Members in this Chamber today, we are all interested in reducing damage, reducing the number of addicts and reducing the negative consequences it has for the rest of society. That is why I would just like to call for a reconsideration of the position of those parties that do not agree with us, because this has only moved in one direction with the policy we have pursued in recent years, and that is the wrong way to go. I have promised to welcome the Radicals and to say that they support both the basic views of the parties behind the proposal for adoption and the text of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125104	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125116	Thank you. It is good that the world's leaders meet in New York in 2016 to discuss drug policy and set out the lines for the future. While it took 20 years to get an ambitious climate agreement through the United Nations, there are already three different drug conventions that have the support of as many as 184 countries. I think that will make any climate negotiator green with envy. In the Conservative People's Party, we are confident about the line taken by the government, which is, of course, a continuation of the previous government's line. It is good and sensible that there is coherence in this work. We want a flexible convention which provides a broad framework for the development of action at national level. The focus must be not only on the criminalisation of drugs, but also very much on prevention and damage reduction and, of course, also on human rights. We must continue to ensure that young people are aware of the extensive consequences of drugs, both hard and soft. Many young people today believe that experimenting with drugs is safe, which is far from the case. However, we have faith in the negotiating line laid down by the government and support the proposal for adoption which was read out by the Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125243	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125247	Thank you. I can imagine that the rapporteur does not think that the situation today, either in Denmark or globally, when it comes to drugs and the consumption and abuse of drugs, is particularly desirable. I am therefore looking for some answers from the rapporteur on what to do differently. The rapporteur does not agree with the proposal for adoption that we are behind. The rapporteur says that we need to do more of what we are already doing: focus on prevention, information and still away criminalisation. But we have tried that, and we have seen over the last few decades that the problem has just exploded. So what, in the rapporteur's view, is the new thing we need to do to change direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125333	I also believe, for example, that there are too many weapons in free circulation in Denmark, but that is why I am not in favour of decriminalising having weapons without permission. I do not think that the solution should always be when you think that something is not working well enough, just to say that then you decriminalise it. We need to do more to prevent this. We can discuss the Danish drugs policy, but that is not what is on today's agenda. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself stressed this earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125402	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125404	I do not think we can compare these two things at all. What several parties have advocated is precisely to base our policy on evidence, on figures, on what we know to work. And when we can see that decriminalization in e.g. Portugal can lead to a more positive result, so we say: why not look at it? Why do we not call on the government to base its recommendations on that? What we know about weapons is that the more relaxed the arms legislation is, the more weapons are circulating and the more deaths there are. These are the numbers we know. So that's the big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125444	But when we Conservatives look at this, we base our policy on values and principles. Drugs are extremely harmful, and that is why we think it sends the wrong signal to talk about decriminalising it. This has major consequences for people who take drugs. I understand if someone is listening to this debate today and getting confused, because it seems that there are no problems whatsoever in taking drugs, and that is not the case. So I think it sends the wrong signal to talk about decriminalisation, and we are not in favour of that in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125516	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125517	So, frankly, I must admit that I am a little bit amazed at the way the Conservative rapporteur speaks. Conservative policy is based on values and principles and a desire to send signals. But in the real world, it is true that for at least 40 years, at least, we have tightened and tightened and punished more and more at global level: more police, harder penalties. There are even countries that have the death penalty for drug crimes. And yet consumption has increased, sales have increased and production has increased. It was the Conservative former Minister of Justice, as far as I remember, which both in 2004, in 2007 and, I believe, also in 2009, tightened Danish drug legislation. So there's been more and more punishment. Conservatives think it's worked? Is it getting better?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125617	Well, I have no doubt that the rapporteur for the questioners was amazed because she was sitting there shaking her head very openly when I spoke. I couldn't help but notice that, so it didn't surprise me. When I say that it is based on values and principles, it is because we have a conservative view of human beings and it is not because it should be raised up in the way that in fact sees man as fundamentally unreasonable. It may seem extremely negative on such a day before Christmas holidays, but it is basically the conservative view of human beings. We see man as unreasonable, and it also means that man can make unreasonable choices. And an unreasonable choice is, for example, to take drugs. That is why we think it is legitimate for the state to go in and, as it were, protect against making unreasonable choices. Then I agree that the rapporteur's point is that criminalisation does not protect very well. I have caught that point, but from a conservative point of view it would be a wrong signal to say that it is a, understand me right, sensible decision to be able to take drugs. We do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125717	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125718	I'm glad. The Conservative rapporteur recognizes that this is precisely not a discussion about whether you think it is a good idea to take drugs, because nobody in here does. This is a question of how we best protect people from ending up in the social, physical, psychological deroute, it can be an abuse. Conservatives' rapporteur speaks of signals, but what I am asking is not signals. I understand Conservatives have a signal to be very tough. Great, but did it work? Is there any evidence at all that this punishment has worked?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125805	For example, I can refer to the PhD made by an associate professor at Aalborg University, named Kim Møller, who points out that decriminalisation will mean a marked increase in consumption. I can refer to that, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125818	The next brief remark is from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125821	Thank you. First of all, a quick comment. When Mrs Mette Abildgaard compares with weapons, there is the difference that weapons can harm others. When you take drugs, it only hurts you. But the question I would like to ask is: what is the real argument for continuing with something that we have seen does not work? We only have figures that decriminalisation reduces abuse. What is the argument for continuing with what does not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125858	I personally believe it would be a declaration of failure to give up here and say that okay, then we decriminalize it, and then we hope for better times. The evidence for this is also limited. I am aware that Portugal has sometimes been referred to today, but it is not a long-term project, as I understand at least what has been going on there, and from there we still have to see more results. Conservatives believe that giving up is a declaration of failure. We are happy to look at what we can do more to prevent in Denmark. Let us finally take that discussion. Often a serious abuse starts with a hash abuse. We would like to see how we can prevent more young people from trying hashish at a very, very young age too. There are massive problems both with hash abuse and certainly also with hard drugs in relation to learning, health, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125951	Then that is the second brief comment to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218125956	Should I understand the rapporteur in that one can actually see that it would work to decriminalise, but that one just thinks that it is a declaration of failure to give up, because now one has said that it is going to do so, and then it is a declaration of failure to give up? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130016	I do not believe that there will be fewer problems in Denmark with drugs if we sent the signal from the Danish Parliament that there is nothing particularly dangerous about drugs and that there is therefore no problem in experimenting with it. That's the signal we send when we decriminalize. Once we have criminalised it, it is precisely to send a signal that this is extremely harmful and can have extremely serious consequences for the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130039	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130041	Thank you for the floor. I do not think that any of the parties have supported the declaration that the Liberal Alliance has read out, which does not care about human consequences. That is really what I think this is about: the human consequences of taking drugs. There is no one in this Chamber today who has said that it is quite all right to take drugs. What I am just sensitive to, and I would like to ask the rapporteur, is whether the tightening of the law on drugs in 2004 when we introduced zero tolerance, and in 2007, when we introduced higher fines, has had the effect that drug consumption has fallen in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130121	On the Conservative side, we recognise that sometimes we can raise the penalties for some without necessarily reducing crime in this area. We recognise that there are areas where this can be done. But then it is also something with a sense of justice, and what you think is an appropriate punishment. And that's what we've been doing. But I have to say again that this is a discussion about the Danish position at a UN meeting; it is not a test of what we have done in Danish politics in that area for the last ten years. I would like to take that debate another time, but then I would just like to be prepared for that to be what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130157	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130158	Well, I fully agree with the rapporteur on that. But now it is because I think we had just run down that path, and I certainly would not have sat on me that the alternative was not interested in what to say, to look at the victims who are taking drugs. Because I really think that's what this is all about. That is why we have put forward this proposal for adoption that we in the UN system should call for attempts to go other ways, because the fact is that when you look at the figures, you can see that consumption has increased, production has increased, the number of criminals has increased and there has been no effect on those victims, if you may say so, there are drug users. We think this is the way to go and look at: what are we doing to help them?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130238	I am pleased that the alternative rapporteur also sees the people who take drugs as victims, because we in the Conservative People's Party do so too. We do not think it is a rational choice to take drugs for a human being because it has very great consequences for both body and mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130257	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130259	Thank you. In fact, I think it is a very interesting discussion that comes out of this, and I do, because I very much recognise that the Conservative rapporteur is actually sticking to the Conservative basic principles, to what we see people and that this is, as it were, the starting point for policy in this area. We must recognize that whether we agree or not. We must recognise that this is the position of the Conservatives. But I would just like to ask something, because we were talking a little bit about signal value versus reality: if we imagined a situation where it turned out that the number of deaths, compared to what we have now, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this report.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130349	Never tell, especially about the future. At least it's hard. I personally find it difficult to imagine that the Conservative People's Party should change its attitude to this, and it is from a basic conservative human perspective where we see a person who is basically unreasonable. This also means that there may be a need for the state to take protective measures. And it's a hopelessly out-of-fashioned view of people... there are certainly some who want to sit and think in these times with high thoughts about everyone, but it's the same when we, for example. MEPs call on the Commission and the Member States to take all necessary steps to ensure that the EU's environmental policy is properly implemented. Then it is also because we believe that people are sometimes unreasonable and that a state is needed that sets in regulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130428	Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier?
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130430	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I think their position is well-founded, although we disagree very much with the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130440	Does the rapporteur wish to comment on this? There is therefore no further brief comment to be made to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak in this debate? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place on Monday 21 December 2015, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20151218130505	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday, 21 December 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 9. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
