ParlaMint-DK_20150319100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Bjarne Corydon): Bill no. L 166 (Proposal for a law amending the law on remuneration, pensions, etc.) for ministers. Karin Nødgaard (DF) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 98 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increased accountability in municipalities in the event of serious failures in cases of child abuse and neglect. ) Martin Geertsen (V), Martin Henriksen (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Mai Mercado (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 99 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting Danish nationals and resident foreigners from entering Syria and Northern Iraq and effective means of response in breach of the ban. ) The titles of the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100054	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100154	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100216	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 100 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 9 (EL and ALT). The bill passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100248	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100308	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 109 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100333	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100350	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100416	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100442	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 109 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100509	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100525	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 108 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100559	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100610	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 18 (DF and LA), abstentions 34 (V and KF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100655	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100710	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100735	Does anyone wish to comment on the item on the agenda? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100800	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-17, elected by a majority, the committee with the exception of EL? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100831	Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur. Before Mrs Charlotte Dyremose starts, we must ask for a little more calm in the Chamber, not least the corner where the Left is traditionally located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319100904	Thank you. If we have followed the debate on what should have been a simplification and modernisation of the rental law, but which, unfortunately, has become the opposite in many eyes, we know that, especially out there, where they have to live with this law, there is enormous and massive uncertainty about what this law will have and what it can bring with it by conflict. In response to some of the questions raised by this chaos, the Minister has produced a considerable amount of paper in the form of notices, guides and new forms. Since things are as they are, it is, of course, commendable. But it is also the case that there is a considerable amount of work ahead of the Minister to complete all these things before this bill comes into force on 1 July. There is, we know, even a risk that a parliamentary election might come across and perhaps make that process more complicated. However, I would hope that today the Minister could somehow give us a guarantee that these guidelines, notices and forms will certainly be in place by 1 July. In particular, I am concerned about the new type of lease agreement form. If it is not in place, yes, then I could fear that it could have the consequence that the private rental market is completely stalled, and that would have to be said to be a disaster for a great many people. That is why I would like to ask, Minister: can we now have a guarantee that these things and that everything that has been promised in the many answers will be in place by 1 July, and if it is not the case that the entry into force of the law will then be postponed, so that at least we do not run the risk that this agreement, which a large majority in the Folketing unfortunately intends to implement despite opposition from both tenants and landlords, will put the rental market at a complete standstill?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101127	Thank you to the rapporteur. It says up here on my board that mr. Karsten Nonbo wanted a brief comment, but I don't see him, so it must be a mistake. Yeah, it's a mistake. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There is not, and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101154	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of LA) on Amendment No 1. Amendment No 2 was accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on Amendment No 3, which was adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA) on Amendment No 3. 4-9, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No. 10, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA) or on the amendments No. 10, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA) or on amendments No. 10, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA). 11-16, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101242	The debate is open. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101255	Thank you. International safety rights in aircraft equipment are probably not exactly what we deal with every day, but thank God others have done so. The Cape Town Convention describes in detail how that system is to work, and what we are talking about today is the ratification of what is called the Cape Town Convention. What does it have to do with it? It concerns popularly said registration. Circulation of what? Recording of rights in aircraft and aircraft equipment, etc. That is to say, purchases, ownership, pledges, retention of title, etc. etc. It is now the case that such rights, in popular terms, must be recorded where the debtor, that is, the borrower, lives, in the register which may be in the place in question. And we also have a register in Denmark for what I call the registration of rights over aircraft. It's being conducted on the Traffic Authority, and that's what's called the Right Register. That should actually be enough, but it is evident that foreign investors are demanding that an aircraft be registered in a country which has acceded to the Convention. Against this background, it is estimated that it is important for the aviation industry that Denmark will also accede to that convention. I can only take note of that. The proposal, as far as I can see, does not change anything on our national register, what is called the Right Register. However, during the committee procedure there is just one small question that we need to clarify. I find it a little difficult to see, when I look at the bill, how the order of priority is done, if one right is recorded in this international register and another right is recorded in Denmark. So what comes first in the order of priority? But it's technology, and we'll find out. The Left can support the proposal in any respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101513	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101519	Thank you. The purpose of the bill here is to allow the aviation industry to continue to acquire new aircraft for registration in Denmark under good conditions. And that is why Denmark must implement the so-called UNIDROIT Convention on International Safety Rights in Mobile Equipment. It also contains the related protocol on specific conditions for aircraft equipment. And that is why we are dealing with this bill today. The Convention and the Protocol will in future facilitate the financing of aircraft equipment by establishing an international system for the registration of safety rights in aircraft and other aircraft equipment. The Socialists note that the industry considers this proposal to be extremely positive and, with those words, I have to say that we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101618	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101624	Thank you, sir. President. The Danish People's Party welcomes the bill and, as stated in the submission, it is expected that accession to the Cape Town Convention and the Aircraft Protocol may be essential for the aviation industry to continue and on fair conditions to re-anchor aircraft registered in Denmark. It is, among other things. because accession will facilitate the financing of aircraft equipment. The financing of aircraft is often carried out through various forms of credit sales, where investors increasingly impose as a condition of financing that the aircraft is registered in a State which has acceded to the Cape Town Convention and the Aircraft Protocol. That is why it makes good sense for Denmark to join the Convention. On the basis of the consultations, which welcome the fact that accession to the Convention and the Protocol is now being proposed, it is estimated that the proposal will improve the competitive opportunities of Danish companies globally. As I said, the Danish People's Party welcomes this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101734	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101740	Thank you for the floor, President. I shall be very brief. I very much agree with the words of the previous rapporteurs on this rather technical proposal. It makes sense for us to accede to this convention. This responds to the wishes of the Danish aviation industry, which can have better financing conditions with this proposal. That is why we can support it radically. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101801	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101805	It will be at least as short as the speeches of all the other rapporteurs, because the things that can be said about this proposal have almost been said. The hearings have nothing to say about the bill, so we have no problem with it in the SF. This will create better opportunities for the aviation industry to obtain funding, and I think it is a good thing that we are working for better conditions for the aviation industry. And then I would just like to say at the end that I would like the aviation industry to work for better conditions for their employees too, and it is clear that here I am thinking in particular of Ryanair, which is currently a little overturned in this area. This is, of course, another debate which does not really belong in the context of this proposal, but I could not help making that comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101854	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101858	As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this area, Mrs Pernille Skipper, cannot be present, I should just like to say very briefly that Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101911	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101916	Yeah, this is fast. And it seems that what the draft law is about has been explained, and that is why I can simply say on behalf of the Liberal Alliance that we fully agree with what has been said so far and agree with the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101935	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319101939	Now Mr. Leif Mikkelsen did not tell us why this is a good legislative proposal, so I would like to do so. Because it is precisely the case that this will improve the competitive situation in relation to new acquisitions of aircraft at home. And, of course, when it comes to ensuring better conditions of competition, we are involved and we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319102004	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319102011	In other words, it is an incredibly effective parliament that is working today with regard to this bill, and this is, of course, because we are dealing with a legislative proposal of a highly technical nature. It is a bill that responds to a request from the Danish aviation industry that Denmark also accede to what is called the Cape Town Convention. This means, of course, that the Danish aviation industry can obtain reasonable financing conditions for the purchase of aircraft. I understood that there were some technical questions, and I would like to give them a technical answer during the committee procedure. Thank you, however, for the broad support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319102056	Thank you, too, to the Minister for Justice for a brief speech. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319102112	The debate is open, and that is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319102136	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for focusing on a subject which concerns us all and which, for my part at least, I can say is of great concern to me. It is untenable that public servants, the front troops of the welfare society, should experience attacks, harassment, threats or other behaviour by citizens or relatives who are unacceptable. I also think it is important to say that every time a nurse, a porter, a parking attendant or a police officer is attacked, threatened or harassed, the whole welfare society is at the forefront, and therefore it is also a joint responsibility to counteract the incredibly boring social trends in this area. Perhaps I could say at the outset that some of the last thing I had to do while I was still Minister for Employment was, in cooperation with the Danish Parliament, to tighten up legislation so that employer responsibility must also be extended to leisure time if, for example, an attack on a nurse or a police officer has to do with something that has taken place during working hours. I hope that will work well. So we have to do what we can to take care of our employees and crack down on what can be called nothing but antisocial behaviour, because it is when good employees are harassed. As the proposers are aware, a working group was set up in 2013 under the National Police Service, where the Police Union also participated, to look at how we can take extra care of our police officers. At least at that time that working party found that no new legislative initiatives were needed. It made a number of other recommendations instead. If we look at the resolution itself, and if we have read it correctly, we can see that the first element is that the punishment for harassment of civil servants must be the same, regardless of whether the harassment takes place in the service or at leisure. The Criminal Code already contains special rules on attacks on persons acting under public service or public service obligations. These are paragraphs 119 and 121 where those persons are given special protection against both violence, threats and what they call insulting charges. The provisions, and I think it is important to say this, cover both situations in which public employees are attacked by violence, threats or insulting charges during working hours, and situations in which the attack may occur outside working hours, but where the attack that may occur outside working hours is precisely justified by the working situation. The proposers want the penalty to be the same in the two situations. In the case-law I can say that it is already important in an aggravating way that a threat to a public employee is posed to the injured person outside working hours. This has also been explained to the Danish Parliament in the past. I am not assuming that what the authors of the motion for a resolution want is to bring down the level of penalties that would be ill-like to the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is why we should be a little cautious about this part of the motion for a resolution. Because there is already a case law in favour of adding to it aggravating circumstances. In any case, we must not go down the back road to reduce the penalty for this. So it can be said that the mere ambiguity that exists here means that we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Then there is the issue of harassment against the family, and here we are about something that is really unpleasant. Think of going to work, doing your job, and then experience that your family may be children, a spouse or others are harassed because you are a prisoner or because you are a nurse. There is only reason to distance ourselves from this. However, the motion for a resolution proposes that it should constitute a separate penal circumstance if the harassment or threats are directed against the immediate family of a public servant. It goes without saying that we must do everything we can to prevent this happening. Violence and threats to relatives are punishable by the provisions of the Criminal Code on violence or threats, and the courts may take into account the fact that the relationship has been committed on the basis of a public service. This applies, for example, if it is a spouse of a police officer. So there are opportunities for you to see it as a penal circumstance, which means that the possibilities already exist in the criminal code. Then there is the third element in which it is proposed that, if the perpetrator has previously been convicted of perilous crime, the normal penalty for violating the criminal code's provisions on the assault of a public servant with violence, threats or insulting charges should be doubled. I don't have a very dogmatic relationship to punishment. I am certainly in favour of our sanctioning where it is necessary and right, and if there are areas where the penalty should be increased, I will not in any way oppose it in principle. We just need to make sure that it works and that it doesn't become a blow to the air. There I just note that the working group that has been set up in the past, where the Police Union has also participated, has not recommended that the penalty be increased. On the other hand, something else has been recommended: that we put our policemen in a better position to deal with situations where conflicts may arise. As hard as I was in my introduction to crack down on the threats, harassment and violence, it is equally important, however, that in our public sector we work conflict stairs instead of conflict stairs, because whether you are a policeman, an ambulance rescuer, a psychiatrist or a social worker, you meet people who are ill. You meet people who are affected, who are addicts who are on the edge of their lives and who can therefore occasionally have a behavior that is wrong in every way possible, but who, of course, are rooted in the fact that life for some is just so immensely sad and so incredibly difficult to deal with. If, in all these cases, we fight hard, we will see too many conflicts escalating. One of the great privileges of living in Denmark is that we have so incredibly talented people sitting in our ambulances and working in the closed sections of the psychiatry and in our patrol cars, who, in the most stressful and humanly challenging situations, are able not to put down hard on them, but who, in fact, with their empathy, their human insight, their psychological superiority and their insight into life's conditions, are having their conflicts reduced, so that our allerally most vulnerable people can get out of situations without having to be handcuffed or otherwise subject to the use of power. I would very much like us to maintain those traditions and culture, because that is one of the things that makes Denmark a very special society. This does not alter the fact that we have to crack down on the harassment, the violence, the threats, because it is unacceptable, but I am listening to the fact that the working group that has been set up in the past has made recommendations other than those contained in the motion for a resolution here, and therefore, from a single point of view, we are choosing to say no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319102926	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319102930	Thank you. In terms of content, the Minister says the right things, and if you are ready with the pen, you can get down to what the Minister will do in terms of action in addition to the speech in this Chamber. But now I ask the Minister what exactly will the Minister do, because I did not get anything written down. Unfortunately, this is a bit the same picture as we have seen with previous justice ministers. Sir. Morten Bødskov said as Minister of Justice that this was a problem, but did not really do anything, Mrs Karen Hækkerup said as Minister of Justice that it was a problem, and a committee was set up that did not lead to much. The situation we are in is, of course, that, if we compare 2013 to 2014, we can see that, for police officers, there is an increase of something similar to 12% in the number of reports of violence and threats after, for example. Paragraph 119 of the penal code, which is why we want it. Then you can discuss how it should be arranged, but we want in the bourgeois bloc to punish this harder. And I just need to know if I really heard wrong. In addition to what she says, which are fine words, does the Minister of Justice not have any concrete proposals for action and changes in this Chamber today? Is that correct, Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103038	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103039	Well, that's because in this area we don't need to focus our attention on it just once in a while. This is an area that deserves our attention all the time. This must be part of our regular police work, it must be part of our regular work in and in connection with the Department of Justice, and then it must be part of the work on working conditions carried out under the auspices of the Ministry of Employment, and that is why I took the liberty of mentioning it and advertising some of the last things I managed to do as Minister of Employment. In my view, this is a very, very important contribution to what the proposers want, namely that employers should be obliged to have and take responsibility, even in relation to incidents that may occur outside working hours, and that is a concrete example of the government acting in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103126	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103128	Yes, but it has to be said that the path chosen by the government does not lead to solving the problem, because there is an increase, and the Minister of Justice must confirm this; it is a simple statistical task. I also believe that today, on the part of the Department of Justice, it is said that there is a very, very large proportion of their members who are experiencing an increase in this. Here there is a concrete proposal that what is today the normal sentence, which is 10 to 20 days in prison, we in the bourgeois bloc want to double, and that is what the country's Minister of Justice says no to and refers to a committee. I have to ask the Minister for Justice: are we not politicians and should we not sit down and find a political solution to this, since it has to be said that what that committee has been working on does not seem to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103207	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103208	Yes, but I guess it doesn't matter that we also listen to the committee when we have both the Police Union and others who represent the area there. We should therefore all be impressed by the fact that it is not immediately increased punishment that is recommended. Because no matter how you turn it around, it is the prevention of the incidents that is crucial. The policeman or the nurse who may experience the violence, the threats and the harassment risks having his life ruined, or at least part of his life or part of his working life. And that is why the prevention element here is in many ways incredibly much more important than the punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103249	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103251	The minister says this deserves attention all the time. I am very much in agreement with that, which is why I am in line with my fellow Members who are actually a little puzzled that there is just a pure rejection. There won't be an opening to look at it or take anything in or invite to a meeting or otherwise take this seriously. I think we have to say that the increases in harassment, in violence and threats have now been so great that we cannot keep telling our police officers, nurses, prison officials that they just have to wait. So, I think there are some who are expecting action now, and here is a concrete proposal. Then I am just as stunned as the rapporteur of the Left that there will not even be a single concrete solution on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103342	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103343	It can be said that if this debate makes the rapporteur speechless, then there is a very dangerous prospect in the future, because here is a Minister of Justice who says that this is extremely important and that it requires all of us to focus on very many different levels. But I also have to deal with the specific elements of the resolution, because we do not disagree on the objective. There may well be elements that can also be discussed more specifically, but, for example, when it is proposed that the penalty should be the same, whether it be violence or harassment within or outside working hours, and the Ministry of Justice's assessment is that the penal code is in fact tougher, stricter and stricter today than what the proposers are proposing, then I have to draw the attention of the proposers to the fact that the proposers are in fact in danger of reducing the penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103443	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103445	But it doesn't happen so often that I use the word speechlessly, primarily because it doesn't happen so often. So the Minister may well have a good point there. But what remains after the answers that have been given is simply a minister who will do nothing. After all, it is a minister who will not be actively involved in preventing officials from being subjected to harassment and violent crimes, and there is no value in the Minister of Justice's statement that if you have committed personal crime before, it will be punished more severely if you engage in violence and threats. We must take note of that, I have to say, but it is disappointing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103530	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103531	That is a very violent claim made by the Conservative rapporteur, and I really think I will leave it at that. I do not think that I am known for anything other than being one who is concerned that we have a proper working environment in Denmark and that, of course, whether you are a policeman or an ambulance rescuer, you should be able to come home safely from work and that we should not accept threats, violence or harassment in any way. After all, what we are discussing today is the means, neither the value objective nor the social distance. I still have to say that the rapporteur's view is that this is a risk of reducing the penalty, because I do not think that is what is intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103612	Mrs Susanne Eilersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103614	Thank you. Now I could hear the Minister talking a little bit about us doing something more preventive, so that you do not step up the situation when you stand out there and that the officers get some tools for it. Of course, I fully agree with the Minister on this. I would also like to take as a starting point the incident we have heard there was in Gothenburg today in front of a hospital where 100 men have been set up who require five or six gunshot victims. And there I wonder how the Minister sees it, i.e. whether you could give the police or others, in this case also the hospital staff, some tools; these are the sudden situations that you have no tools to prevent. Does the Minister not think that in Denmark too we are seeing more and more of these cases which we should take action against?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103710	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103711	I do not know the specific situation from Gothenburg well enough to be able to say anything about it. I've only heard of the completely sporadic from today's media photo.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103722	Mrs. Suanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103723	But we have also seen examples of incidents from Odense and our hospitals elsewhere. Such situations arise when, for example, have been gang conflicts where some of these gang members are admitted and then you try to force yourself into hospitals. So it is known in Denmark. There is a tendency for these conditions to escalate, and I would like to know if the Minister has a position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103754	Well, in my view, there is no excuse whatsoever for showing up at a Danish hospital and asking to have a patient extradited or access to a patient because you have a gang-related interest in it. It is a task of the authorities to ensure that those concerned get away from the hospital and, if necessary, be arrested if there are grounds for doing so and that, moreover, our health professionals are allowed to do their job.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103823	Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103826	Thank you. The Minister spent part of his speaking time describing situations in which we should be very careful not to step up and that it could often be, we should say the official or the police officer, or who should make sure that this does not happen when it comes to someone who is having a difficult time, etc. We are in complete agreement on this. It is certainly the person who has the profits and is not burdened and ill or affected that must make sure to step down. I just don't see what it has to do with this resolution and that it changes it at all. I may need the Minister to try to tell me why it filled so much in the Minister's speech when I look at what the intention of the resolution is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103909	But that's because there's a fine balance in it. There is the ordinary police work where you have to deal with people who, for example, may be affected and who are therefore far away from how they would otherwise act, or who may otherwise be challenged, because there are some situations around them that make them outgoing. And then there is the fact that you suddenly experience violence against the policeman, or words are said that may have a threatening character. These two things can be incredibly close up and down each other. And there I just know from the concrete police work that the way our police officers handle people, including those who are having a hard time, has a really, very important meaning. This applies both to the individual citizen and to the policeman's own safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103956	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319103958	Yes, and, as I said, we are in complete agreement on that. But does this mean that the Minister imagines that the fact that a punishment is a little harsher or milder when someone proceeds affects the situation, i.e. who can speak a case up or down? Will the policeman act differently because a bill has been passed where there are stronger penalties because he knows that now he can be punished more severely? I certainly think it is people who have so much profit that they often rather talk a case down than up. So I do not see how that justification can be used in this context. That is what I think the Minister is delusional about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104040	Well, I'm not saying that you can necessarily prevent all situations. I know, on the other hand, that prevention is the wisest thing to do, and that for the citizens and for our police officers, which we must also be careful of, it is what, in the long run, is of the utmost importance and can be given the utmost importance. Conversely, we are not sure that punishment will work because we cannot be sure that the person harassing, threatening or exposing, for example. A prison officer or a police officer for violence will refrain from doing so because the sentence is set up. We cannot be sure of that. That is why we should like to see the sanction imposed. We are just not sure that this means, for example, that fewer police officers will be harassed or subjected to violence or threats.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104126	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104133	The proposal here is not a new proposal, but something that we have discussed and discussed several times in this Parliament, and that is why I will also repeat my speech, which I made when we last had it up in this Chamber a few months ago. There should be no doubt for a moment that the subject we are discussing today has the attention of the Socialists. Those employees who are the guarantors of our valuable public sector every day deserve our full attention, not least when they are harassed. This applies, in particular, to our police officers, to our prison officers, and to everyone else who looks after the interests of our society, especially their families. Without their efforts, we would not be able to maintain the security for the Danes that we Social Democrats will do everything possible to ensure. Let me start by emphasising that we Social Democrats are not afraid to punish those who cannot find a way of complying with the rules of the game that apply in our society. However, increased penalties must have an effect and there is no indication that this proposal will produce the desired effect. Even the police themselves or their professional organisation do not believe that this is the way to less harassment and therefore we cannot support the proposal. We will do everything in our power to ensure that public servants are not harassed. That is also why we, among others, are here. has asked the police themselves what solutions they find are the best. That is also why, a few months ago, across a broad majority in the Folketing, we introduced new legislation in this area to ensure that it can be dealt with if harassment occurs. There should be no two opinions that the best thing that can happen is that we totally prevent officials from being harassed. It's whether they're on the job or taking the day off. Prevention is and remains the best tool. I must also point out that the first initiative of the proposers is that the punishment for harassment of civil servants must be the same, regardless of whether the harassment takes place in the service or in leisure time, when the harassment occurs in addition to the official's function. This is already the case today, according to section 119 of the Criminal Code. 1, and Paragraph 121, which provides special criminal protection against violence, threats and insulting indictments. The provisions cover both situations in which public servants are assaulted by violence, threats or insulting charges during working hours and in situations where public employees are attacked outside working hours for the purpose of their duties or duties. With regard to the proposalers' focus on harassing the families of a public official, we Social Democrats also agree with the objective in this area, but we do not agree with the means. It is deeply reprehensible to direct your dissatisfaction to family members, for example, to a policeman or a prisoner, and fortunately this rarely happens. And there is already an opportunity to punish on this basis. Let me also point out here that it is the police's own wish that this type of case should be prevented rather than that the penalty should be tightened up. Therefore, we do not support the desire for a new, separate, penal circumstance, if the harassment is directed at the immediate family of a public servant, when the harassment occurs as a result of his official's duties. The same applies to the third part of the proposal, which deals with double penalties for harassment. Even today, it is possible for our judges to give more severe punishment by repeated harassment. As has been said, we Social Democrats have no rights and I repeat no fine feelings about avoiding punishment, but we only sharpen the penalty where it makes sense. In this case, both the police and the police union point out that it does not solve the problems of harassment to punish harder. On the other hand, it is essential to dress the policemen better to deal with potential harassment and resolve the conflicts before escalating. We Social Democrats have the greatest respect for our skilled civil servants. That is why we owe it to those solutions that work and that are not just symbolic solutions. That is why we owe it to them to listen to the proposals they themselves make and not just trump the proposals with something that we think sounds good from the parliamentary platform. In those words, we Socialists do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104613	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104616	Thank you. This was a rather different speech from the one made by the Minister for Justice, and I would like to thank Mrs Trine Bramsen, because it is now clear to all the police and prison officers in the country that the Social Democracy has no intention of increasing what is normal punishment for section 119. That is what can be derived from Mrs Trine Bramsen's speech. It's a little something else you could deduce from the Minister of Justice's speech. I would like to thank you very much for that honesty. So we're basically and fundamentally disagreed about that. We're just... I have to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen whether Mrs Trine Bramsen really believes that it is a fair, fair punishment that, in the event of threats of violence against a policeman or woman, it is okay that normal punishment is somewhere between 10 and 20 days in jail. Does Mrs Trine Bramsen think this is a fair punishment?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104706	That's bullshit. I would like to repeat that for us Socialists there is no doubt that we do not hold back from punishing at all, but we do not want to punish just for the sake of punishment. We want to increase penalties where it works, where it has an effect, and so there is no point in even the police themselves pointing to the fact that it has an effect to increase the penalties. To that paragraph, sir. Karsten Lauritzen refers to, I would say, that there is already an opportunity today to attach an aggravating importance to it when it comes to an official in office.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104737	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104739	Yes, but that doesn't change the fact that if you look at the answers given to the Folketing, you can see that the normal punishment is what I just explained. And there we just say in the bourgeois block, that we think it's too little we think it's cheaply let go. We believe that in relation to some of the many people who are criminalising section 119 of the penal code there has been seen an increase that might help to increase the penalty a little bit. The criminals are laughing at us, I would say to Mrs Trine Bramsen, and they are using this vague piece of legislation we have to harass policemen who are just doing their job. And the answer from the Social Democrats and Mrs Trine Bramsen is that it does not want to do anything about it and that there is an appropriate level of punishment. It's not really a question, it's just a comment. I would like to thank you for the honesty of the country's police officers and prison officers, where they have the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104820	Well, that, sir. Karsten Lauritzen says it's not true. What is the clear position of the Socialists is that we want to do what works and what has an effect, and not what is merely symbolic statements. If increased penalties turn out to be what works, well then we are happy to discuss it, but when the police and the police association themselves point out that prevention is the solution to getting rid of this, and when we have set up a committee that has been asked to come up with proposals on how to tackle this issue, and they clearly point out that it is not increased penalties that can remedy this issue, then I actually think we, as a responsible parliament, owe it to us to listen to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104858	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104901	Well, it's not a either or. Of course, you can prevent it while increasing the penalty. And I heard my party colleague Mr. Karsten Lauritzen's question is that it is a question of whether the Socialists believe that it is a fair punishment, an appropriate punishment, a reasonable punishment, which is currently at risk. In other words, could we not get an answer to just what the Socialists think is so politically that it is appropriate and in accordance with what we call the sense of justice that the penalties are at the level they do?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319104933	Now neither I nor Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, judge, and that is why I think we should be extremely careful not to go in and define what the penalty should be in the specific cases, because neither I nor Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen knows the specific cases in detail. What I can relate to is what the police themselves say can be a solution to this. What I can relate to is that we take responsibility for this by starting a job by looking at all the tools in the toolbox that can solve this problem. And there we Social Democrats are completely open. And let me repeat: if punishment can remedy this problem, if there's even one thing that points to increased punishment being able to prevent this, then we'd like to look at it. But we're just in a situation where not even the police or the police association itself points out that increased punishment is remedying this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105026	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105027	Well, if we were only to punish when it could prevent crimes from arising, we wouldn't have to punish for anything. After all, there is no one in this Chamber who really believes that we can prevent manslaughter and rape and other forms of punishment. But we can reduce it and then we can send a signal, and that is the signal I am asking for. I do not ask what the courts think and what the Police Union thinks and what all sorts of other people think, now I ask what Mrs Trine Bramsen, who is currently standing on the parliamentary platform, thinks is a reasonable level. Does Mrs Trine Bramsen think that we should tell the courts that the level at which we live today is unreasonable and that it should be increased, or does Mrs Trine Bramsen think that it is a reasonable level of punishment, a fair level of punishment that is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105118	But let me repeat once again that we Social Democrats are not afraid to punish, but it must have an effect. And then, as rapporteur for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I can relate to what is currently possible within the framework of criminal law. And there we have a section 119 paragraph. 1, and a section 121 which already provides special criminal protection against violence, threats and insulting indictments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105145	Mrs Mai Mercado for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105148	I mean, I'd be able to answer that question as a conservative quickly, because, of course, that penalty is too low. And that, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen asks, is not, in fact, something professional, it is not a professional judgement that Mrs Trine Bramsen should give. She must, in fact, just express a political opinion, in relation to whether the level of 10 to 20 days today is fair enough or whether you want to increase it. Because if you want to increase it, like in prevention measures, so that you do it together, then I should at least just signal from here that we would very much like to be involved in that. So far, however, we have not received an answer to the political position, as to whether the level of punishment that exists today is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105233	When the Socialists discuss politics, we always do so on a professional and factual basis. That is why we are dealing with the existing criminal framework and not with some matters that we do not know the content of. I have to say, frankly, that if anyone is surprised, yes, I am now surprised that Conservatives stand and want to make policies on the basis of some punitive measures in some cases where we do not even know the substance of the matter. I find it problematic if that is the way Conservatives are now beginning to define penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105304	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105306	No, the weirdest thing in this case is that the Social Democratic Party is treading that way. So, I think that most people, both those who come to the Chamber today and those who are listening to it, had some suspicion that, as a politician, you can relate to whether it is reasonable that if you are harassing you, you get 10 to 20 days. I mean, it's a political statement, it's not a question of wanting to go into all the penalties. It is a question of having a clear consequence if it is to harass or violence against our police officers, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105348	Well, it is quite simply wrong when Mrs Mai Mercado begins to define a penalty, based on what has been given of punishment, because that depends on what criminal acts have been committed. I must also completely reject the fact that the Socialists are treading water. If we did, we would probably not have set up a committee in which we have asked exactly the professional groups involved to make their own recommendations on how to tackle this problem. And once again, I just have to relate to the fact that the professional groups who are experiencing the harassment have not themselves pointed out that increased punishment is a solution to this problem. But we owe it to the Social Democrats, at least, and I also believe that the Conservatives do • the employees who go to work every day to ensure security in our country, to listen to their recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105435	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Susanne Eilersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105447	Thank you. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 58 on the tightening of the penalties for harassment of civil servants in leisure time is, as was mentioned earlier, a re-submission, but the subject is nevertheless a very topical issue. We must ensure our officials a proper working environment in the service. However, we also have an obligation to ensure that police and prison officers, for example, are not harassed in their spare time, and the proposal is made on the basis of recent many harassments that have been made to police officers and, most recently, to prison officers, to whom the harassment has just occurred in leisure time. We look with concern at the trends in public servants and civil servants being exposed to threats and violence in their spare time. Unfortunately, we also see that certain groups in society do not hold back, but take action and go further, so that the threat also includes the official's family and children, and that is increasing. As an official, you are very vulnerable when the threat takes place outside the service, where you are completely unprepared and may be violated on your private land register, so that the family too is affected by it and is very insecure. We must never get into a situation where public servants and their families have to look over their shoulders when they are out shopping or staying in their own homes. Similarly, officers must never be put in a situation where they fear to enforce the law for themselves and their families. Officers being harassed are protected by Article 119 of the Criminal Code when they are subject to official threats. But the matter becomes much more complicated when the threat occurs in leisure time. The question can therefore be asked as to whether the level of legal penalties applied has an adequate preventive effect. A great many of the verbal assaults, harassments and acts of violence are often derived from revenge actions by ex-convicts who want to avenge themselves on a particular police officer who was placed in custody or other things. We therefore hope that the Minister will take the initiative to put forward a legislative proposal that the normal penalty for violation of Paragraph 119 (1) of the Criminal Code and Paragraph 121 will double, as we believe that it will have a deterrent and preventive effect. We believe that it is necessary to tighten up legislation in order to ensure that the assaults on officers and other officials are punished more severely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105726	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105732	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by signing for a very sympathetic motion for a resolution from the opposition. I believe that all members of parliament across parties are completely opposed to the harassment of officers and other civil servants. Nevertheless, we do not believe radically that this resolution is the solution to the problem, and that is due to several things. Firstly, the proposers want the penalty for harassment to be the same, regardless of whether the harassment takes place in the service or in leisure time, when the harassment is therefore related to employment. In other words, we do not disagree with that on the part of the radicals, but it is already the case today. This is quite clear from the report looked at by a working party. The working group looked at the issue of harassment and we all received the report last year. Here, on page 5, there is a reference to section 119. 1, and Section 121: The provisions cover both situations where persons are subjected to violence, threats or insultable indictment, etc. during working hours during the performance of the duties, including situations in which the persons concerned outside working hours may be considered to have entered the service and situations in which the persons concerned are subjected to violence, etc. outside working hours on the occasion of the service. Therefore, it is rather an empty proposal with regard to this part of the opposition, except that there may actually be even higher penalties when harassment takes place in leisure time. Then you follow the proposals put forward by the authors of the motion for a resolution, yes, it might mean real penalties, and I do not think that was the intention of the proposal here. The second reason why we do not support the proposal is that we want to increase the normal penalty. We in the Radical Left do not think that is necessary. As a politician, you can always propose to increase the penalty, it is so easy if you like, but it is rare that it solves the basic problem; it does not go to the root and does not deal with the causes of the problem, and therefore we are also critical of this point. Instead, we believe that much more prevention is the way forward. There are many good initiatives in several police circles, and such initiatives can only be commended to the police for taking. That's the way to go, and we need more of that. This resolution is not the way to go, and that is why we unfortunately have to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105952	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319105956	Another rapporteur said that the report in question states very clearly that there should be no penalties. In fact, I do not see that a position has been taken on this, but I will come back to that in my rapporteur's speech. But there is, in fact, in connection with that, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen refers to the fact that it is of course a discussion about when one is considered to be in service. So there may well, as the rapporteur acknowledges, be a discussion about when you have entered duty and when you have not entered duty. This is, of course, a relevant legal debate, including political debate, such as this one. The police union has traveled. This is the one, in other words, whether the rapporteur recognises that this can, of course, be discussed. Then it is true that something can also be pointed out in the wordings we have used. That is why this is a motion for a resolution and not a legislative proposal. So if we are politically in agreement, then we can just implement it by law. The second question I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether he really thinks that the level of punishment for these 10 to 20 days for threats is a perfectly fair, normal punishment in these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110106	First one. I think it is mostly a legal discussion. I would therefore urge the rapporteur to put some written questions to the Ministry of Justice. If you have questions of legal status today, then we can clarify that. I have said, as has the Minister for Justice, how we interpret the text in this way, but we can follow up if there are any questions about it. I'm absolutely sure of it. In relation to the level of punishment today, I do not think that is the way to go, that is to say to increase the penalty. I believe that it is more important to dress the police officers to deal with those situations and prevent them and then, of course, to do preventive work so that this does not happen at all. Then we have to say that there is a penalty today of up to eight years, and that is an aggravating circumstance if there is harassment of officers and other civil servants in relation to their service. So I think that, on this point, our criminal law base is excellent, and we do not intend to change that from a radical point of view. If the working party had said otherwise, that is true, I do not think they have actually taken a position on the report, but I do not think they were prevented from doing so either, we would of course consider it, but so far it has to be said that there have been no recommendations from the police or the policemen's union to set up the normal penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110240	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110242	Yes, and that is quite fair, and I would like to congratulate the Radical Left on saying that 10-30 days in prison, if you engage in violence against an official, is what is normal punishment, that is to say the penalty in a normal case. It's a little further down than that, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen read from, and that is what the Radical Left thinks is fair. It's okay, and then we're just arguing about that. What I'd like to ask you, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen is: Jeppe Mikkelsen refers to the preventive, which we have done a lot of and which also comes from much more, it must be praised the government for the problem is just that the number increases. We see more assaults, we see more reviews. What, then, is the Radical Left's response to reverse that trend when it is not this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110323	I think we should be careful not to cut matters off and make them up in statistics and so on. I note that there is a very, very high criminal framework within which the courts can act, and there are some aggravating circumstances in which the courts can act, and that therefore allows for the possibility that if there are some very serious examples, some very serious cases, the courts can also impose penalties accordingly. I would just like to say this rather than start talking about what is necessarily fair. It is more a question in the individual case and not something one can stand here on the speaking chair of the Folketing and generalize on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110405	Thank you to the Radical rapporteur. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110412	We simply need a well-functioning public sector, which is why it is so important that we ensure that the people who work here can do so without fear of violence or threats or verbal abuse. In fact, we should not be in a situation where no one wants to make a career in the public sector, because that is the kind of thing to tolerate. After all, the proposal mentions very specific officers, and I know that it is aimed at wider groups of public servants, but it is not just officers. In fact, they are also prison officers, they are social workers, they are teachers, and many other professional groups have to face harassment in these years. This is a problem that needs to be addressed and it is important that the legislation we have is enforced when these incidents happen. And it's very, very important that the managements at the workplace also take care of these experiences and have a clear strategy for how they handle it. We saw the very good example of this at East Jutland Police, where a kind of zero tolerance policy was introduced after there had been severe problems with harassment of police officers. Here the management reacted by drawing up a strategy to deal with the harassment, and there was rapid follow-up and consistency. And it actually worked. It made the harassment take off something. So some of this can also be solved by management taking the problems seriously. It's important that you as an employee don't feel you're all alone with these challenges. It is important that you are taken seriously and that there is a clear policy on what should happen when you experience this and that there is a clear policy on what to expect from help and how to follow it up. Just in these hours, a press release has been ticked in from the Prison League. They have seen a 57 per cent increase in violence against and abuse of prison officers. In just a few years, so this is a challenge to take and feel. But they are not actually asking for more severe punishment, they are asking that we look at the dynamic security: that there are enough staff present, that you are trained in conflict management. And I think that is interesting from the point of view of this motion for a resolution. The Minister of Justice has explained very well that there may not be so much new in the proposal compared to the last time and that a great many things can be done with the current legislation. As I said last time, I am not enthusiastic about this proposal, because, according to the Minister for Justice, it can also mean that the penalty is actually reduced when it comes to harassment. So we do not support the proposal, but I would nevertheless like to say that I think there are a number of things we need to dive into, and we need to look at whether the case-law is actually being used when it comes to the families of public employees. Because one of the worst things is when you get hit on your family. I think we can all understand that. That's why I think we should have mapped-up practice. We need to pass some sentences so that we can see if this is actually happening, because it may not be enough that we can just perhaps go so far as to say that it should then have a little hoax on harassment, which is about the Black Register, which is also one of the problems here, where public servants are hanged out by citizens for abuse of power, harassment, corruption and worse. This happens without the parties concerned being able to reply, without legal certainty, and this has actually led to a great deal of judgments. What's just the problem is that this register consists, these accusations stand and hang freely in space. Although a verdict has actually been handed down with which one can get justice, one can shoot a white arrow at it because nothing more is happening. I don't think that's okay. Here I would very much appeal to the Minister to take another round of this harassment and perhaps look at if there is nothing more we can do in these cases, because it is obvious that this harassment of public servants is not something we should accept; it is not something that should be everyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110830	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319110838	Since Mrs Pernille Skipper, our usual rapporteur in this area, cannot be present, I have been allowed to explain the view of the Enhedslisten. Of course, we agree with all the others who have said that it is very important that people who have a profession in which they carry out tasks for all of us... it is police officers and other public servants and civil servants must be able to carry out their profession without being afraid, and that they should have all the security we can give them in the tasks they are doing. I think we are in complete agreement on that, all parties here in the Folketing. This is an important issue and it must be taken seriously. Nevertheless, we cannot support the motion for a resolution before us today, and that is because, among other things, the report referred to by the Ministry of Justice of 12 February 2014 to the Legal Affairs Committee states that no new legislative initiatives are needed on the basis of the report. I think it is quite important that when a report has been drawn up and it has been examined, examined and analysed and that new needs for legislative initiatives cannot be identified, you listen to it and do not just repeat what we all agree on. We do not agree with that, for example. we need to extend the penalties. We are not, among other things. because we have been able to note that in a case from 2011 when the Østre Landsret handed down a judgment, the aggravating importance was attributed to the fact that a threat to a public employee had been raised outside the working hours of the public employee. So the penalty was tightened up by reference to it. Some of the proposals that the authors of this proposal would like to make have been carried out in such a way that they can be made on the basis of current legislation and case-law. We have also seen that the proposers believe that the penalty should be doubled if an offender has previously been convicted of perilous crime. In the Enhedslisten, we are very much in doubt about the value of punishments as a means of preventing crime, and in this case we do not believe that a punishment, a punishment doubling that has been proposed, will have any preventative effect. On the other hand, we believe that a large number of the proposals put forward in the 2014 Reichspolice report can solve part of the problem. That is, for example, the case. improved police record-keeping practices in cases of harassment of civil servants, the use of existing rules on, inter alia: police restraining and training of police officers to prevent and pursue cases of threats and harassment, conflict resolution and such things as can help reduce the consequences of harassment against public officials and other public servants. We do not believe that the proposal put forward is necessary. Like all parties, we agree with the intention of protecting those who work for the Community, but we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319111229	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319111237	Thank you. We support the proposal, because we have helped to put it forward ourselves. After all, it is a resolution which requires the government to make proposals and it is not known whether the government can achieve it at all. We are in an election year, which is why it is important to note that the whole blue block is united on this proposal. That is to say, if, after an election, there is a blue majority, you can count on this to be implemented. That is why it is a good signal to the people we are talking about before an election campaign in an election year that this is a clear choice, because one part of the House, which hopefully is the smallest part after an election, does not want this aid for civil servants. That is what the blue side of the House wants, which is why it can be appropriately taken into account in assessing what one thinks it is wise to vote at that time. I think we can limit this proposal to three things: that the penalty should be the same, whether you are now on duty or whether it is in leisure time, that it should be aggravating if it is against the immediate family, and doubling the penalty by repetition. In fact, this resolution can be boiled down to that, that is to say, it is what the government is being asked to implement. And it's crucial for us with this proposal, whether it's cops or other officials, that you're not ever brought into a situation where you have to fear enforcing the law for your own sake and your family. That is a very clear signal. Now it is so unfortunate that the Minister for Justice is so concerned about talking in the corner of the room that she probably does not hear what is being said, but I am saying it now anyway, that I am very surprised that the Minister is more than suggesting that if officials, police officers, others who come in a situation where they have to take into account the fact that the person who is involved in a conflict is affected, ill, weak, know that there is a severe punishment behind it, they would just like to step up the situation in order for him to be punished more severely. So that is what the officials are suspected of. In fact, that is what the Danish Minister for Justice has stood in the Chair and said here today. I'll tell you what. One may wonder for a long time that we have a Minister of Justice who has the entrance to those people who have to deal with those conflicts and who do so regularly and in an excellent way. In other words, I have complete confidence that both before and after this proposal they will do so in the very best way and have many situations reduced because they are wise and sensible people. We are just giving a clear signal here that those who cannot find a way of respecting the work of those people, including in leisure time, can know that there is legislation behind it that is so much both tough and consistent in any situation. And so they can do their work safely. So you can hope for these people that they are very much looking forward to an election and a different majority in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319111607	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319111616	We Conservatives have, of course, been involved in making this proposal because we have seen that in recent years there has been a slippage in relation to this group of employees, employees, who, in the past, constituted an authority and where we unfortunately find that authority, that authority, there is less respect for. At the moment, we have been able to keep up with P1 this morning and hear the story of a prisoner who has been subjected to quite unreasonable threats and the influence it has had on him. So this is a slip of value which we cannot just look at implicitly. As Conservatives, we want law and order back. And, of course, we get that by restoring respect for our police, for our prison officers and by clearly and even hard signaling that we simply will not put up with it. That is why it is quite natural for us Conservatives to punish those who are harassing and violence against, for example. The police, both in working hours and in leisure time. We will not accept that some of our officials have been hunted wildly and we believe that it is time to take action against this trend. It is also quite obvious to us that it should, of course, be an aggravating circumstance if a perpetrator is harassing or committing violence against an official's family as a result of something he has had to deal with at his place of work. It is absolutely unheard of to harass, threaten or commit violence against an official, but to do so to his family is directly primitive and despicable. The penalty is too low, and it should be higher. We are concerned that there are some who speculate in the low penalty framework and we want to change it. Last but not least, it must be an aggravating circumstance if the perpetrator has committed personal crime in the past, and we also want to make that clear. It must not be the case that, as an official trying to do his job and to ensure the calm and orderly functioning of all of us in society, one should go and be particularly concerned about particularly violent types who may find it interesting and amusing to threaten the person or his family. This is quite serious, and I hope that some of those who do not want to support this proposal will follow a little in the reports that today also run on Denmark's Radio, where you get a very good insight into what these people are actually exposed to when they try to keep order in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319111912	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319111924	Thank you. The reason why the Left, together with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, has chosen to resume the debate on aggravated punishment for violation of section 119 of the Criminal Code, including harassment of others. police officers and prison officials in their spare time are that we are looking very seriously at the cases that, unfortunately, are still pending in society. I would like to say that both police officers and prison officials are employed to do a very important job for all of us. It is a job that makes Danish society hang together, but unfortunately also a job in which employees are not only sometimes, but quite often, and unfortunately more and more often, subjected to harassment, threats and reprisals. That is why they must also enjoy special protection in our penal code, and that must be the clear signal that we, as elected representatives, send here from Christiansborg. As you know, they are already being protected, but the penalty for harassing and violence and the threat of violence against civil servants is, in the opinion of the proposers, simply too low. If you look at the report that we have now discussed several times and that the National Police made as a result of the debate which, among other things, took place. The Left traveled here in the Parliamentary Chamber last year and which was part of the debate that the Police Union raised in their excellent magazine... you can read that the normal punishment in a standard case of threats of violence, for example. against a policeman, in recent case law was at a level of between 10 and 20 days in jail. Then, when you turn to the next page, you can read that the review shows that in cases of violence, that is, where violence has been committed against a prison official or a police officer, recent case law is at a level of between 10 and 30 days in prison if there is less serious violence, and between 20 and 60 days in prison in ordinary cases of violence. So when you hit a person whom we, as a society, have chosen to ensure that the law is enforced, then the Danish Parliament's answer with the current legislation is that it is actually taken so lightly. It's something you only get a few days in jail for. What we have to bear in mind is that many of those who commit these abuses are not people who, by the way, are law-abiding citizens. So some of them are bikers and gang members who think of harassing the police and threatening policemen who just do their job. And of course they also think that the normal penalty is just relatively low. That is why I think it is a pity that today there is no majority in this Parliament to do anything about it. I find that very, very regrettable. However, I would particularly like to express my appreciation for the clear reports from the Socialist rapporteur for the fact that it is in fact felt that the level of punishment is in order. It's fair enough to have that attitude. In the bourgeois bloc, we simply disagree, and it is a matter which we intend to tackle, as outlined in this resolution, if we have the opportunity to do so on the other side of a parliamentary election, if we get a majority in favour of it. And if it turns out that some of what we have written in the motion for a resolution will actually lead to a reduction in the level of penalties in harassment cases during leisure time, we are not entirely convinced that we had it in the debate last time too. Of course, we are willing to cancel that part. That was not the purpose, but it is such a legal discussion. We have tried here today to raise a political debate on what the level of punishment should be, and that is where we disagree. The blocks are drawn up very clearly, and that is fine, because then the voters can make their choice on that basis, and if we should have obtained a majority on the other side of a parliamentary election, we will implement what we want. If the present government is allowed to continue, it must be assumed that nothing is happening in this area, at least not in criminal terms. However, we had hoped that the government would be willing to look into this question, because that is what the Minister for Justice said last time, but that is not the case immediately. I would also like to say that I think it is a pity that the government has not come up with any new initiatives. It is fair that you do not want to sharpen the penalties, but you have to be aware that there has been a negative growth in this area. I think that is an increase of 121⁄2%. from 2013 to 2014 and that today the Prison Association is out saying very clearly that there is also an increase in violence against prison officials. So, even if we could not agree on this resolution, I had actually hoped that we could have a debate on what the government wants. I don't think we've had that, and I think that's too bad. But that is the case and, as I have said, the voters have a clear basis on which to decide. In the Left, we want to address it, what to say, concerns, as I think many private policemen, many private prison officers, have, in relation to their experience that this is a growing problem, and they also see that some of these things are speculating about the fact that the punishment is relatively low. I have to say that in committee we will pursue the claim made by the Socialists that the working group has recommended not to look at the criminal framework. Because, as I read the report from the working group, which has been set up and which makes some excellent proposals, which have therefore been implemented but which seem to have not had the necessary effect, I cannot actually see anywhere that we have been asked to consider whether or not the penalty should be increased. It is also, if I am to be quite honest, a political discussion, and I think it is rather a pity that we politicians sometimes hide behind committees instead of telling us what we politically want. It is, of course, an honest statement to make that you think that 10 to 20 days in jail for threatening a policeman is a perfectly fair punishment. It is quite all right to say that violence against a police officer must be allowed to go to 10-30 days in prison. It is quite all right to have those views, and one must assume that they are those which a majority of the Folketing currently seems to have. That is just not what we want in the Left, nor is it what the other bourgeois parties want. In those words, however, I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it is important that we keep this subject on the agenda, and I welcome the fact that, although we do not agree with the funds, and even if no new initiatives have been put on the table, there is a clear signal gap in relation to this growing problem. And then I have to hope that on this side or on the other side of a parliamentary election, and hopefully together, we can find some of the solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319112648	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319112701	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319112720	Thank you. When I read the resolution here, I am not, in fact, unaware that the intention is right and good, and I basically agree that it is sensible to look at the individual financial capacity of citizens and the level of fines. There is already the possibility, within the current system of fines, of graduation, taking into account both economic capacity and the economic advantage which may have been gained from crime. I am actually willing to discuss with the SF whether we can create a better system of fines than what we have today. I also believe that, if we are to do this well, we need a thorough analysis and thorough consideration. And I must be quite honest and say that with the many urgent tasks we have on the table right now, it will have to get a little further down on the agenda. It is not because I do not think that the system of fines is essential, but because, as everyone knows, we are dealing with some really big issues which require very, very concrete answers. So if SF is okay with that, I'd like to give a positive indication of looking at the area, but I can't tell you when we're gonna get to this specific task.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319112849	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319112902	Thank you. After all, this is a debate that the SF has also raised in the past in public, and the position of the Left on this issue has not changed since we have seen the resolution, which is, of course, to set up a committee to look before 1 April 2015 at how to introduce a system of fines based more on revenue regulation. I do not think the SF can be blamed for the fact that it is not very long before 1 April. Our experience with fast-working committees is rare for them to be able to work so quickly, but it is enough because it is some time since the proposal has been tabled and put to the House for debate. I am not going to use it as a basis for rejecting the proposal, but it is now a rejection by the Left. We in the Left do not think there is a need for a committee to look at this, for the very reason that we actually think that the system we have today is quite sensible. If you drive across a red light, you have committed the wrongdoing, it is driving across a red light, and you get a fine for that, because you cannot, there you are a danger to road safety. But we do not think that the fine should be differentiated, it should be the same fine. We also think that there is an implication which may not be in the proposal, but which I think lies in some of SF's rhetoric in this area, and which is that just because people make a lot of money, it doesn't hurt them to get a fine of DKK 1,000. or 3,000 kroner. In fact, I think it hurts, and I do not think we should go down the path indicated here by the SF, with revenue regulation of the fine system. The system we have today, where there is partial revenue regulation in a number of areas, seems reasonable to us, for example. in parts of the traffic area. But if we introduce a more general principle, we are afraid that it will lead to some inappropriateness, and it will also risk becoming unnecessarily bureaucratic, and we will have a discussion about where the cuts are to be laid. In any case, we are not of the opinion that, just because you have a high income, you are completely indifferent to the fines you get, and we will refuse to set up such a committee, because what that committee will come up with will probably also be rejected, and then we do not think there is any reason to work on the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113131	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113134	I just want to hear the rapporteur of the Left what he thinks of a fine of DKK 1,000. Does the rapporteur of the Left believe that it does not matter to someone who is at a lower wage rate, for example? within the HK area, as for someone who may earn 30,000 or 40,000 kroner. a month? Does it matter about the 1,000 kroner, or does it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113204	In fact, I think it can hurt people who have a high income just as much as they can to get a fine of $1,000. The assumption that money doesn't matter because you have a higher income than the average dancer, I just don't buy. There is probably also an element of such equality before the law, because the reason why you have a high income may be that you work 60 or 70 hours, and then of course you have a higher income than those who work 30 or 35 hours or work part-time. I think it would be a boring principle to introduce into our system of fines in general. Then it is true that there are discounts for students and pensioners, perhaps for historical reasons too, but I do not think that we should go further than the system of fines we currently have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113256	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113258	Now I know that the Left thinks it is a luxury to be on cash aid, for example, and that something can be cut off, but I would still venture to claim that DKK 1,000. means infinitely more to a cleaning assistant than they mean to a director of a larger company, so you can collect this kind of as a charge. So I just want to know whether it is the position of the Left that fines should be preventive, because if they are to be preventive, they must in principle mean something where you are now and in relation to the income you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113333	Yes, but I also think that we should have a system where, if two people are running against red light, they should have the same penalty for it, just as we do not today make any difference as to how long prison sentences you will get if you commit violence. There we look at people's individual situation, we don't look at their income ratio. And then you usually get, if you're in the same situation, the same penalty for it, without looking at the revenue. And this premise that lies in it, that rich people don't care about the law and that they consider it a tax, I just don't buy it. I understand that this is speaking to the SF's traditional electoral group, but I simply do not agree with the argument behind the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113421	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113432	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the SF wants to see an increased level of revenue regulation of fines. We are already familiar with revenue regulation from a number of types of fines, where the rate can be reduced if you have a very low income, and in other areas the fine is measured on the basis of monthly wages. I admit that there may therefore be good sense in using income regulation in some areas of fines, and that is also why we are doing so today. The Minister of Justice opened the door for us to have a further political debate on whether this practice can be extended to other areas, and we Social Democrats support that. However, if revenue is to be adjusted in a number of areas, it must also be borne in mind that it is a matter of high administrative costs to measure fines on the basis of income. Some problems also arise in relation to assessing the amount of fines, because many Danes have varying incomes per person. In this context, it should be pointed out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is an important step in the right direction. Therefore, it may be unclear what basis a fine is to be determined on the basis of, and at least it will involve high costs which, in a number of cases, could be expected to exceed the actual amount of the fine. However, as I said before, we are happy to have a further discussion with the authors of the motion on whether there are specific areas where the proposers intend to make it practically available. I think there's a need to go deeper before we go ahead with it. With these words, I should like to say that we Socialists are happy to take the debate but cannot support the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113618	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113623	I am, in fact, very pleased that the Minister for Justice has said that we can do this when the Criminal Code Council has better time to look at this sort of thing. However, I think that is a step in the right direction. But I'm not really buying that argument that it's going to have too much administrative costs, because in our neighboring countries, this is actually doing a lot more. Much more is done in Sweden and Finland, where a model appears to have been found. That is why I would like to know whether it is Mrs Trine Bramsen's position in principle that fines should be preventive and that it is therefore necessary to adjust them differently, depending on how much you earn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113705	I think it is very important to be aware that you cannot just take a Swedish or a Finnish model and transfer it to Denmark, because there are different tax systems and tax models. But I must admit that we already have this model here today in a number of areas where it has been estimated that it makes sense to have a revenue-regulated fine. That is why I admit that this can be a good model in some areas, and we are happy to discuss whether there are other areas where it could also make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113735	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Susanne Eilersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319113747	In relation to this motion for a resolution by the SF on the regulation of fines, we in the Danish People's Party agree that fines should be imposed on an equal footing, regardless of whether you are a politician or a cashier. And we can actually sympathise with the part of the proposal that has been put forward. It is more the question of reasonable fines that are joking. Here, for example, the Danish People's Party is thinking of speeding tickets. At the end of January, at a press conference, the National Police reported that 75 new photocars had been put on the street to combat speeders all over the country. The Danish People's Party fully supports the fact that speed-sinners should be punished. There should be no doubt about that, but that is more the principle, that is to say, that you can be described as a speed-sinner if you are snapped by a photo car on a straight road right on the limit where the speed-limit divides between 80 km/h. 60 km/h. And you might just need three to four kilometers an hour. Getting down below that speed limit. For it is most often where photocars are located, and the Danish People's Party would have preferred photocars to be located near schools, kindergartens, nursing homes and in the centre of cities where many vulnerable road users travel and where driving conditions are often poor. One might suspect that these new photocars are a money machine to spit money in the treasury. I mean, there's a pretty lame money set aside for the collection of fines. And if it is true that this is the intention of photocars, then it is certainly wrong. That is why, in relation to this proposal, we want to make sure that it is not calculated as an additional income for the Treasury, but that it has a preventive effect. That is why we have some questions we would like answers to in connection with the work of the committee. We would like to know whether it is all kinds of fines, the proposers are wondering whether there are any de minimis limits and what kind of fines are to be recovered and whether there may be a ceiling on the amount of fines based on the various categories of fines. Having said that, the Danish People's Party agrees with the proposers that fines should have a preventive effect and that there should be some fairness so that the amount of the fine reflects the person's financial capacity. We also have similar questions and concerns when the proposers think about the same revenue regulation in relation to companies. Because we fully agree that companies should not be able to speculate that breaking the law is worth breaking because the fine is too small, but we need to clarify things in committee. That is why the Danish People's Party is in favour of the proposal as a starting point, but we will await the committee before we can finally express our opinion on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114044	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114050	Thank you for the floor, President. I think that in many ways this is a very interesting proposal that the SF has put forward here. Fines must, of course, have a preventive effect, and it is clear that the size of the purse plays a role. A fine of 1,000 kroner. hits some harder than others. Fortunately, therefore, many parts of our system of fines have already been designed to take account of the person's income. One could see whether it should be extended, but I agree with the Minister for Justice that it should be thoroughly worked through by the Criminal Law Council. And right now, the Criminal Code Council has more pressing things to do, for example. assessments of the basis for prosecuting Syrian warriors. That is why we Radicals cannot support this motion for a resolution, but the SF should be thankful for putting it forward, and Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, as the proposer, should know that this is not such an ideological opposition to the proposal. It is more a low-practical resistance and a resistance because of priorities, in this case prioritising the time of the Criminal Court. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114202	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114210	Since Mrs Pernille Skipper, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this area, cannot be present, I have been allowed to say that we support the resolution. We agree that there must be a greater degree of revenue regulation in the system of fines. In other words, the opportunities already available today in the area of revenue-regulated traffic penalties are being extended to other areas of law. We think it might be appropriate to consider in particular how capital-rich companies can get a proper slap when they violate the law compared to the small one-man company or others. There really is a need for modulation, and we would like that to be implemented as soon as possible. We must admit that it may be a little difficult to achieve this by 1 April, but then it must be as soon as possible thereafter, so that we can have such a change of legislation coming into force not in one or two years' time, but as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114313	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114323	The starting point of the Liberal Alliance is that fines are a punishment and not a tax. The present motion for a resolution from the SF is an expression of the opposite point of view, namely that fines are a tax and not a penalty. Unfortunately, this is an increasing trend. You send out photocars on the Danish roads, where they alone are tax machines that make sure to pick more money out of the citizens' pockets, and this is another example of just wanting to pull money out of people's pockets instead of letting tax be tax and punishment be punishment. That's why we say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114408	There is a brief comment from Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114412	Does this mean that the Liberal Alliance is actively working to change the legislation on drunk driving, where, as you know, one pays one's monthly salary and thus has this kind of income regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114430	In principle, we do not believe that punishment should be regulated by your income, because it will thus be tax rather than penalty. It is not the case that we have a concrete proposal on that, but if we had to set up the system from scratch, we would not introduce income-regulated penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114453	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114455	I just need to understand whether that means actively working to remove the fine that is being paid today by a drunk and which, of course, involves a monthly salary. That means that it is equal for all people where they are in life and for what kind of job they have. Is that the policy of the Liberal Alliance, that is to say, simply working to change it because it is not fair and because it is a tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114523	If we get the other bourgeois parties involved in creating a completely new penal code, as we would like, then, in our opinion, there will be no income-regulated penalties. So to that extent it can be said that the answer to the question is yes. But I would also like to stress that neither the resolution nor the paragraph in question refer to equality before the law and equal punishment, as is suggested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114602	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114611	Since Mrs Mai Mercado cannot be here, I have promised to say a few words on her behalf. SF has tabled a motion for a resolution on revenue-regulated fines, which we are discussing in this Chamber. Now that the millionaire tax and other envy proposals are in the grave, you can always come up with this, because it must be envy that drives the SF when they want to regulate all fines throughout the kingdom. The SF's proposal is not only about making the lives of citizens who have a high income more difficult. No, of course it is also about the fact that if you have done well as a company and are fined, you also have to have a considerable gook in need. It is already hard to operate in this country because there are many burdens of both an economic and an administrative nature. That is why it is not the right way to pass even more costs on to companies. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114705	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319114719	Thank you for the debate. I was aware that there would not be so much wind from the bourgeois parties, but the Danish People's Party was very positive. And I am quite satisfied that the Minister of Justice agrees in principle that we should look at this and that we can do so when the Criminal Code Council gets a little air under its wings once again. This means that this proposal is not completely dead. I am, in effect, very pleased with that. I do not think there is any doubt that money is of course important, and if you have a lower income, then a fine of DKK 1,000 is a fine. in fact, more than it does for those who have a higher income. And if we are to argue from the point of view that fines must be preventive, then they must also be different, because they matter differently to those who violate the law. It is not, of course, a principle that we are unaware of in Danish legislation, because we have it precisely when it comes to drunk driving. There you hand in a month's salary times the promill, which means that it takes into account whether you make a lot or a little, and it hits equally hard. That is why I cannot really understand the argument put forward by the Left that, when faced with red light, it should be different from receiving a prison sentence, because in prison it costs all citizens equally, because they lose exactly the income or position they have in society when they are going to be in prison. So it can be said that there is a prison sentence in such a way equally hard, no matter where you are in your life. To a greater extent, they have this system in Finland and Sweden. That is why we know that it is possible to find models which take account of revenue. Despite the fact that there is of course some administration associated with it, it is a political question whether or not you want to go that way. In any case, I think it would be sensible to have it examined in a committee, and I hope that we will get to that at some point. The reason why we in the SF believe that this is precisely what should be examined in a committee is that we are well aware that there are many different fines and that it may not make sense to introduce a revenue-regulated system everywhere, but in principle we think that there is something right in that when you have a system of fines, they must therefore hit equally hard, and they do not do so from the outset today. So we look forward to working on this proposal. The Danish People's Party has some questions that they will ask in the committee work. We welcome that. And then I am betting that once and for all we will have a system in Denmark that is based more on revenue regulation of fines than the system we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319115015	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319115044	The debate is open. Mrs Karen Jespersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319115051	The proposal is part of an understanding that the government entered into with the National Association of Municipalities in January of this year. This point stems from a desire from the municipalities to have more flexible authorising rules for the housing of refugees. And, of course, there will be quite a lot of refugees here during the year, and it may be difficult for some municipalities to be able to provide them without further ado, according to the rules that apply today. That is why the proposal is designed to make the rules more flexible when it comes to setting up communities. The Left can support that. The rule is formulated in such a way that it applies generally, but the special reason is that there are many refugees. However, as is written in the draft law, it will also be applicable in other cases where there is a need for smaller communities, for example. for people with less income too. It is the municipal council which has the authorising right and, in very special cases, as it says, can set up these smaller communities in housing with down to three rooms. The proposal also contains some changes to the housing support rules, which are adapted to the change in the instructions. And it is stated in the draft law that it is expenditure-neutral, but it is a little difficult to understand the rules, so there will be some questions about that in committee, in relation to what is more precisely being changed and what the economic consequences are. But basically, it is a support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319115258	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Jan Johansen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319115307	Thank you, sir. President. War and strife have driven millions of people to flee. In these years, therefore, we are experiencing large flows of refugees around the world. In this situation, of course, Denmark must shoulder its responsibilities, as we have always done, and so do we. The large flows of refugees have caused extraordinary pressure on municipalities that receive and place refugees. This year, the municipalities expect to receive significantly more refugees than before. The government and KL have therefore agreed a number of initiatives to help municipalities establish housing for refugees. One of the initiatives is a change in the rules on collective community housing. These are the rules that we are proposing to change with this bill. Specifically, this means that we are changing the existing rules which say that a so-called community of residents must consist of at least five rooms and a common room. In future, the bill will require only at least three rooms and a common room. The changes will make it easier for municipalities to find housing for the extraordinary number of refugees. This is just one of the government's initiatives to help municipalities successfully integrate and the newly arrived refugee more quickly to achieve employment, self-sufficiency and active citizenship. Let me conclude by saying that this is not a special rule for refugee communities. The draft law could also benefit other groups with modest incomes, for example. students and recipients of cash benefits. With these comments, I should therefore like to inform you that the Socialists support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319115501	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we will probably also reach Mrs Karina Adsbøl as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319115508	Thank you for that, President. The bill follows on from an agreement reached by the government with KL on 8 January 2015 on the area of integration. It provided for concrete measures to be taken to meet the challenges facing the municipalities in finding housing for new arrivals. The municipalities are expected to receive approx. 12,000 refugees in 2015, and it is the municipalities that are responsible for providing permanent housing for refugees. In addition, many of the 12 000 people will also apply for family reunification, so the figure will probably be much higher. The government wants the municipalities to solve the problem primarily by using the municipal authorising right to general family housing, either for self-employed dwellings or for rooms in collective housing communities. Just yesterday, the government presented its integration project, where it seems once again that several hundred million kroner should be posted in aid for asylum seekers. I would say that the money can be spent elsewhere, in the vicinity. Refugees have a legal right to housing, which is why they are also in the front line. One of the arguments for this is that the refugees who come to the municipality have not had the opportunity to be written up for housing. But the mother or father who gets divorced after 15-20 years in the parcel house and now lacks a place for the kids, probably didn't even think about that. Residents and citizens who are on a waiting list for a dwelling do not have a right to housing. I would ask the Minister to guarantee that the socially vulnerable will not be in the back of the queue. There will be an economic gain for the municipalities when they assign housing to asylum seekers; does the same apply to the socially disadvantaged and the homeless? Otherwise, there is a fear that there will be a pre-division. It is so important that the Danes do not come at the end of the queue because the government is busy giving homes and jobs to asylum seekers. I also wonder why refugees do not seek asylum in the first country they come to, where safe to be. We are all familiar with the Dublin Regulation, in which EU countries have reached an agreement that in the first safe country, an asylum seeker, asylum must be sought. You cannot refer refugees to the areas on the Ministry's ghetto list, and that is also sensible, but with this bill refugees will then have access to some other attractive housing, and then you can risk creating new parallel societies. Would the Minister please explain whether there are any municipalities which will only apply the municipal authorising law to refugees and not to other citizens? It says in the bill that the municipality gets 100 percent. authorising law. How will this affect those who have been paying money and on waiting lists for several years to get a home? There will be 12,000 more about the offer for a home, which must mean that it will be harder for the single mother, the student, the cash benefit recipient and others. This bill may mean that refugees are getting ahead in the home queue, in front of residents and citizens who have been on this waiting list for many years, but also people who are in acute housing shortages. And is it fair to the Danes that they come at the end of the line? In relation to expenditure on housing aid, please also reply to the Minister's question as to how much this will cost in terms of increased expenditure in this area. The draft law states that it is estimated that it will entail an additional cost for the State of 1 million. kr. a year to reimburse the municipalities' costs resulting from guaranteeing the tenants' obligations for the renovation of the dwelling by removal. What does this contain in concrete terms? The draft law states that it is an estimate that is subject to great uncertainty. The Danish People's Party is deeply sceptical about this bill. We think it is quite absurd that so much money is being placed in asylum seekers here in Denmark • asylum seekers who have been able to afford to come here, in that they have paid a lot of money to a smuggler and that we then have a number of disadvantaged asylum seekers in the neighbourhood who are not receiving help. Try to imagine how much help we could give for the funds that the government has set aside for asylum seekers, if only aid is focused on the neighbourhoods. The government has stood by while thousands of asylum seekers have rushed across the border. This has resulted in 12,000 coming alone in 2015, not to mention the people who bring in the extra family reunifications. Now we are in a situation where the municipalities have to find housing for all these people, and the proposal even provides for the setting of rents so that they can pay apartments for which ordinary Danes have to pay more money. Not only that, the municipalities will also pay when the apartment is removed and has to be refurbished. It's the million kroner a year that goes for it. We believe that refugees will have an advantage in this area, and why should they not pay if they destroy the floors? Yeah, my time's up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319120026	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, but we will have to wait until we resume the debate at 1 p.m. 13.00. The first is sir. Ole Birk Olesen, then it's mr. Henning Hyllested is here, but I don't think that's right. It's sir. Lars Dohn; we will correct that. The sitting was suspended and resumed at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130010	The sitting is resumed. It is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, who will have to respond to a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. Olesen Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130027	We in the Liberal Alliance fully agree with the Danish People's Party that our asylum rules in Denmark should be changed. Too many people are seeking asylum in Denmark, where there are some justified doubts as to whether their reason for seeking asylum is a real refugee status or whether it is more because you want to live in a better country than what you come from. We also agree that asylum camps should be set up in the neighbourhoods so that people can stay there more than travelling to the other side of the globe. Hopefully, once these rules are changed, perhaps with the support of both the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, it will be good and there will be fewer asylum seekers for Denmark. But until that happens, there has to be a place to live for those who get asylum in Denmark, and this bill takes care of getting more housing. What will the Danish People's Party do until we change the rules to find accommodation for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130126	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130128	Thank you. I think the rapporteur is well aware of what the Danish People's Party wants. Our rapporteur for foreigners, Martin Henriksen, has said several times that then we have the asylum centres, and that is where they should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130144	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130146	In other words, once you have been granted asylum in Denmark, you have to go into society to live. That's what this bill is all about. What does the Danish People's Party propose to happen to people who have been granted asylum in Denmark if they are not allowed to live here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130205	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130207	Now, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we also have the Dublin Regulation, and there we have to find out about asylum, where asylum seekers have gone through in relation to the borders, and then there is an EU country there that simply has to deal with it first. So we are simply in favour of having so many asylum seekers, because that means that the Danes will be in the back of the home queue. When the municipalities get 100 percent. It puts those who have paid for the waiting list and were on the waiting list in such a situation that they do not get a dwelling, and that is simply pre-allocation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130247	Then it's the next one asking, and that's Mr. Knox. Lars Dohn, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130251	Thank you. What is it like that conditions are in the vicinity? It has been announced by international organisations that it is a humanitarian disaster that we are facing, especially in the neighbourhood. I do not understand why people who can read the newspaper can suggest that asylum seekers should then be referred to the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130320	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130322	Now, in fact, a lot has been written in the newspapers about the fact that refugees simply come to Denmark, also because of the short processing period, when we have seen that more asylum seekers come to Denmark, because it has typically taken two months to deal with an asylum application, rather than Sweden and Norway, where it takes longer. And when even those who are around the centres can report that there has simply been a tactic of seeking asylum, that is deeply disturbing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130402	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130404	I didn't get an answer on how to settle people in the neighbourhood. Now the rapporteur also uses the card: yes, what about the Danes? I cannot help thinking about what we have had up here in the Folketing in the last four years, for example. when Enhedslisten has proposed that there should be more affordable housing for ordinary people. Where was the Danish People's Party that day, or what did the Danish People's Party vote for the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution to create more affordable housing? What did the Danish People's Party vote for the proposal to create more general housing through amendments to the Planning Act? Whom was the most consideration given to investors or tenants?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130456	It is very interesting that Lars Dohn is asking questions to which he is well aware of the answer. But I would really like to read out an e-mail, just the kind of e-mail I received yesterday from a president of the general housing organizations. He writes to me here and has written to the Socialist Socialist rapporteur, or at least one of the Socialist rapporteurs, and I quote: one of the headlines today has been that Thorning's goal is 30,000 refugees in jobs in two years' time. A very relevant question must be: How many Danes are the goal of Thorning in jobs for the next 2 years? And it is not just in terms of jobs that refugees get in line first. Also when refugees are placed, they get in front of the queue and skip the queue. It's one of the e-mails we get from the outside of the presidents who sit in the regular housing organizations who are supposed to be in charge of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130554	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130603	Thank you. After all, this is a legislative proposal which follows on from the agreement reached by the government with KL, which is to allow, through the rules of the local community, housing communities to be set up in smaller housing units than was previously the case, so that it will be possible to set up housing communities in a number of more dwellings, and we really think this is a flexible idea at a time when the municipalities will have to show particular numbers of refugees. So we can support this radically. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130638	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130642	Thank you. I would like to know what the rapporteur's position is on the fact that we now have a 100 per cent right of direction in relation to the fact that it is simply the refugees who get ahead of the socially vulnerable, the homeless who are not housing and the students. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130704	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130705	I believe that we are facing a challenge to which we need to find solutions. There are more people who need to be housed now than there were before, and that is why we are trying to deal with it with a number of different tools, among others. This is where we say that, for example, more single refugees can live together in a community of residents, and even under different conditions than there were in the past, so that more people can be accommodated under the same conditions. And that is really what this is all about. That is why I believe that the situation we are in now is a sign of greater flexibility, and I think that this draft law is also being applied.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130744	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130746	I understand the rapporteur's reply that the rapporteur considers it quite reasonable that refugees and asylum seekers should be put in the queue in relation to the Danes who are on a waiting list and who have paid for it, so that the rapporteur is simply right and legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130801	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130802	I do not think it has so much to do with what I think is reasonable in this context. I believe that we need to do something because there is particular pressure on our asylum system right now, and that is why we need to find out something for the people who have been given a legal residence here, and they need to get away from the asylum system, they need to get away from the asylum centres. So that way it has something to do with what can be done. If a municipality has a challenge in relation to the homeless, then of course I do not think that anyone should get ahead in line with a homeless person. But the fact is that, apart from being homeless, you have a home where these people have to move from an asylum centre where there has to be room for some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130848	Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130851	This proposal is based on what is called positive discrimination. This means that the refugees who come to this country give positive treatment to housing, which means that they are heading the line in relation to people who have been looking for housing for many years, paid into a housing association, queued up, waiting for them to get in. Now you come up with a proposal from the government that says that refugees in Denmark are given positive treatment in relation to housing. The granting of positive discrimination is, after all, similar to the refugee policy pursued by Radicals and the rest of the government in general. It is claimed that this is a tightening-up. In fact, it is only a question of refugees first in line, that they must be integrated into Danish society and that they must become Danes. That's what's really going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130950	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319130951	No. For the difference is that the people that Christian Langballe says have sought are people who have a different residence, whereas these people do not. I thought, moreover, that the aim of the Danish People's Party was that the refugees should become Danes; that is not my objective. My aim is that refugees should become some who contribute to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131011	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131013	It has never ever been the position of the Danish People's Party that the refugees and the 12 000 people who come here should simply become Danes, so that from day one, when they come, they are converted from being refugees to being immigrants. That has never been the position of the Danish People's Party. They must go home as soon as possible, and in fact they should be placed in the vicinity. But let me give you an example. One can imagine a person queued for a home, it can be a mother or a father with a child in a family where you have divorced, where you have not necessarily been able to foresee that situation and are without accommodation. With this proposal, a fugitive will move forward in line and stand in front.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131056	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131057	I hope that those who deal with these things in the municipalities will, of course, make needs assessments. What I just think is important is that this is a whole group of people who have no other place to live and where they have to find another place to live unless they want to build significantly more asylum centres. Because right now we are in a situation where there are historically many refugees in the world. We are therefore also for a period of time now, the figures have dropped a little again in Denmark, where we have had to receive a great many refugees. That is why we are trying to make some flexibility in the legislation so that there may be more refugees in the housing stock we already have. That is what it is all about, just for a second, trying to keep an eye on the ball instead of driving into some very big, very ideological and very heavy discussion about the number of refugees in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131152	Thank you to the rapporteur. When Mr. Eigil Andersen, Socialist People's Party, is not present, we move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Lars Dohn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131202	Thank you. When the neighbor's house burns, it is the duty of every decent person to open his door and secure people who are in need. And I see this proposal as part of the effort to create proper housing conditions for those who are forced from their home area. The Enhedslisten has proposed that there should be more affordable housing, in other words that the housing should be a human right. The housing policy that has been pursued over the past many years has allowed the number of affordable housing to shrink, so we must move on a different path so that there will be more general housing and private rentals will not be allowed to allow rental levels to rise. We have to say that general housing is very suitable for this very urgent task. They are well maintained, and they are usually built in a good standard. We have seen cases in Svendborg where recently renovated general housing due to this ghettoist legislation was not to be applied. This is a complete baroque situation. We must take advantage of the opportunities we have. And the proposal to change the rules for collective communities will also benefit other groups with low incomes, for example. cash benefits recipients and students. So many of these groups actually share a lease, but that's also happening because the rules are really a little incalculable. Then it often happens that when the rent is set away, there is an unfairness, and there is also the fact that one becomes a landlord in a general dwelling, and others become subletters. With the new rules here we will have a rent fixing which is based on objective criteria, i.e. what is the room that is made available each, and that will be a major step forward for those groups of young people who may have no other option but to try to get together in an apartment. And it can be an excellent solution Another good element in the agreement between the National Association of Municipalities and the government is the creation of a housing exchange, so that one can be able to declare without bureaucracy whether one wishes to rent a dwelling for a refugee without cost. During the lease negotiations, Enhedslisten suggested that we should create a publicly funded housing portal, as you can see in a number of municipalities in Sweden. This would make it cheaper for tenants to seek housing in this way, and fraud with non-existent housing would disappear, but the Minister would not do that. And I actually see the proposal here as a small response to the fact that it might not be such a bad idea to provide public communication. This is an emergency, where proper housing needs to be provided for a great many people. This should not lead to lower housing standards in Denmark, so the objective is still that we build spacious and good housing, such as we. did in the 1970s. The Enhedslisten believes that it is a necessary and a right and a good proposal that has come here and we support it. And I must inform the rapporteur, who could not be here, that the SF also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131629	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131634	Thank you. It is a good thing if young people can have a cheaper accommodation. I fully agree with Lars Dohn on this. But now it is the case with this bill that out of the 500 rooms that are expected to be available, 400 will have to be rented out to refugees, so I doubt that there are quite a lot of young people who will have the opportunity to do this. Something else is Copenhagen. Copenhagen won't take any more refugees. When Lars Dohn talks so warmly about this bill, could he perhaps tell us what Enhedslisten has voted in the citizens' representation on the issue of taking more refugees to Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131718	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131720	There is, of course, the special situation in which Copenhagen, as a city, is subject to some particular strain. That is the idea behind freeing Copenhagen from having to receive more refugees. However, we have come up with ways of securing more affordable housing, in other words more general housing, through the amendment of the law which we have just adopted. But who wasn't there? The Danish People's Party wanted to support investors instead of the tenants. So who is it that has helped to ensure that people with ordinary income can have something to live in, for example. In Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131804	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131806	The answer is clear: the Enhedslisten has voted no in the citizens' representation to take more refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131814	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131817	I do not know the vote in question. Now we have had people elected into so many municipalities that I cannot follow the vote in all municipalities. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131826	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319131833	In the Liberal Alliance, we think that Denmark welcomes too many refugees. We will do two things. We will make agreements with countries in the neighbourhood to the countries from which people travel, fleeing, to set up asylum centres down there, so that Denmark runs the asylum centres so that we can send asylum seekers who come to Denmark to seek asylum here, down to the Danish-run asylum centres in the vicinity, so that they have easy access to return to their homeland when the conflicts end and when it is safe to return home again. We also want the asylum conventions in the world to be amended to take account of the fact that today a great many asylum seekers flee far away when crises occur in their local areas, presumably primarily, because they can have a better life than in their own neighbourhoods. This is not, in fact, a legitimate reason for wanting refugee status in Denmark, so that there can be a materially better life there than if asylum is sought in Turkey as a Syrian refugee. So we want to change that. But until that happens, until we change it, we have to find accommodation for asylum seekers who are granted asylum status in Denmark. They should not stay in asylum camps throughout their lives or the next years of their stay in Denmark. They must leave the asylum camps once they have been granted asylum status and live in an ordinary residence outside the asylum camps. This bill deals with the provision of such housing for asylum seekers who have been granted asylum status in Denmark and about which I must assume there is broad agreement in the Folketing. It is an agreement that also includes the Danish People's Party, which is that they should leave the centres and live somewhere else when they are granted asylum status, which they have. For this purpose, the bill will make it easier to convert non-profit housing in three or four rooms in addition to common rooms into communities where asylum seekers, people who have been granted asylum status in Denmark, can live. But the rule will not apply only to them. If students want to live together, they will also be able to have access to this new type of community of living consisting of smaller apartments than the previous rules allow you to have a community of living in. So we back that up. Despite the fact that we think that the rules for obtaining asylum in Denmark are too lenient and wrong, and that we should set up asylum camps in the neighbourhood, we are based on the rules that are today, and in the given conditions, that whatever party you are in here in the Folketing, we must ensure that those who get asylum have a place to live, for probably no party in this Parliament will send them out of the asylum camps to a life on the street. I am a little surprised that the Danish People's Party is a little populist here, I do not think it will take that responsibility upon itself and say that as long as we grant asylum to them, it is also the obligation of the Danish People's Party to ensure that they do not have to live on the streets. They need a place to live when they get asylum. Then how do we find out? This is one suggestion. The Danish People's Party has not put forward another proposal. The Danish People's Party has stood on the platform, the rapporteur has sounded as if the rapporteur thought that it was about asylum seekers and not people who have been granted asylum. The rapporteur could then avoid considering that it is asylum seekers, people who have been granted asylum who cannot stay in the camps. According to the Danish People's Party's policy, they should not stay in the camps either. So what is the Danish People's Party's solution besides just saying no? We don't know. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132327	It is Mrs Karina Adsbøl of the Danish People's Party who makes a comment first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132332	The solution is, of course, that we must limit the number of asylum seekers and that they must be helped in the neighbourhood. But having said that, I would like to hear Mr. Ole Birk Olesen: It's 12,000, and this bill will allow you to use approx. 500 rooms, including 400 for refugees, so where will Mr. Ole Birk Olesen place the remaining ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132358	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132359	I am, of course, hampered by the fact that I am not an integration rapporteur or a rapporteur for foreigners, so I am not really aware of whether another solution has been found for the remaining asylum seekers and asylum seekers who are expected to be going into Danish society in the coming years. So I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132421	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132422	That's all right, then. This concerns the environmental rapporteurs, the integration rapporteurs and the housing rapporteurs. So we will pass it on to the Minister, because he must be able to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132440	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132443	As far as I am aware and the rapporteur can correct me, we do not have camps at home, we have asylum centres. Our proposal is quite simply that the people who so reside should stay in the asylum centres. It's as simple as that. I believe that this proposal involves a form of positive discrimination because it gives the municipality one hundred per cent of the authorizing rights, which means that the people who are looking in a traditional way will be put in the queue. It is very simple; we will not be involved in that. This isn't our responsibility. It's the government's responsibility, not ours. We say that the people who come here can stay at the asylum centres nichts weiter. We would also like to have limited start-up aid, we would like to see some tightening up in terms of refugee policy, but we are just not playing that game there. That's why we say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132542	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132543	The non-profit housing organizations in Denmark receive in the region of 4 billion. kr. in support every year. The money is given with a condition, the condition that the municipalities have authorising up to 25%. of the housing stock of the non-profit building. This is the condition for the non-profit housing companies to receive the billions of dollars. When municipalities indicate, whether refugees, immigrants or homeborn Danes, to the 25 per cent, the average housing queue is bypassed. That's the way it is. The Danish People's Party supports this. What the Danish People's Party apparently does not support is the practice that has been there so far, namely that when municipalities appoint refugees, it is of course the same. The Danish People's Party has been a part of the power here in the Danish Parliament from 2001 to 2011, but the Danish People's Party has not changed the fact that when municipalities assign refugees to the up to 25 per cent, it is bypassing the housing queue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132656	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132659	Listen, it's very simple. In this acute situation, which is not our responsibility, where people have come here because we have some very favourable social benefits, we then propose that those people stay, even if they are granted a residence permit, in the asylum centres. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132722	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132724	I cannot see in the Danish People's Party's 2020 plan, if such a plan exists, that the Danish People's Party has set aside money for the expansion of asylum camps in Denmark, asylum centres in Denmark, so that there is room for all the people who get asylum so that they can be there, instead of coming out and living in society. But we disagree with the policy of the Danish People's Party here. We believe that it is certain that a relatively large proportion of those receiving asylum in Denmark will live in Denmark, and therefore it is best to get them out among ordinary Danes so that they can be integrated into Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132805	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319132814	Now, a great deal has been said about a great many things, which deal with incredibly many areas, too, about which, frankly, I must confess, I am not able to get the details. But as far as this bill is concerned, I think I'm gonna throw myself into some details as well. On the whole, we have the problem that we have a government that has not taken seriously the problem, it is that there are very, very many asylum seekers coming to Denmark at the moment. Incredibly long things could be said about the need to do a lot of things about it. The easiest thing would be to have a new government, and we can hope so soon. Having said that, we in the Conservatives regard this proposal, which is also the implementation of an agreement made by the government with the municipalities, as a practical measure to solve the gigantic problem faced by a large number of our municipalities, of placing these people, who, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, have been granted asylum and therefore have the right to be here, and for which we therefore believe that we also have a duty to find accommodation. Apart from the fact that we would like to listen to what the municipalities themselves are making of proposals, and this is what we think is so an expression of substance that this is a quite sensible, pragmatic way of resolving at least a small corner of the problem facing the municipalities, namely an opportunity to identify some housing as single rooms in some somewhat smaller collectives than those which are possible under the current legislation. So, in the context of the situation we are in, which is the reality of the municipalities, which is the reality of these people, we believe that this bill is an excellent and quite sensible and straightforward legislative proposal, which we can therefore support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319133025	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319133033	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the good debate on the legislative proposal, including the nice reception it has received. I think we came a little far along in the debate, too, about something that the draft law does not contain at all, where one was given the opportunity to make one's views of principle known to a large number of other things. However, as several have said, the proposal translates into one of the elements of the agreement reached by the government with the KL on 8 January on the area of integration. The bill amends the General Housing Act's rules on collective housing communities, which are set up in general family homes. It is, it may be said, a helping hand to the municipalities, which are, of course, responsible for providing permanent housing for newly arrived refugees. As the bill shows, we expect the municipalities to receive approx. 12,000 refugees this year. This is, of course, a very, very important task, and that is why I am pleased that this draft law is one of several that helps to make the task a little easier for our municipalities. Municipalities will be able to use the authorizing law which they have under the General Housing Act to assign general family housing to refugees, and here one person, one couple or one family is assigned to one home. However, the municipalities have wanted to be able to assign several persons without any relation to one home, especially single young men, and this is where the community rules come into play in relation to the legislation. The local community rules provide a fine legal framework in order to be able to assign more home-seekers to one home, with residents sharing kitchens and other things, and of course they are also getting more to pay the rent. As many have mentioned in their rapporteur's speech, this is not a proposal for a refugee law. It is a bill that applies to everyone in Denmark who has to settle in Denmark, and so you become more about paying the rent. And by allowing housing communities to be set up in smaller housing units than in five-room homes, it will therefore be possible to set up housing communities in a number of more dwellings so that we can provide more housing for the refugees who come to the country. As it appears, the direct reason for the proposed changes is the large influx of refugees, but it is important to bear in mind that these are general changes here. We are not introducing special rules for refugee communities. The housing community solution can also be put at risk for other groups, as I have mentioned, with modest incomes. They can be students, cash aid recipients and others. So in this way I look forward to the committee reading of the general legislative proposal. Then there has been a discussion as to whether this will not result in long-term waiting lists for residential residents. I also heard talk about it being 100 percent. The right of authorizing, the municipalities should have, and all sorts of other nonsense. I would just like to say that it is clear that the family homes that are being included in Community housing cannot be rented out in the usual way. However, it is also clear that refugees arriving in this country must have a permanent residence, whether it becomes an independent residence or a room in a community. And when the municipality uses its authorizing law, it is necessary to make a concrete assessment of the housing seekers compared with the housing composition of the department to which the housing seeker is assigned or living in. And that also applies at the time of the order. Thus, when the municipality assigns a vacant accommodation to a refugee, a concrete assessment has been made of the needs of the refugee in relation to the needs of the other housing seekers, and I think this is both appropriate and reasonable. So let me say that the municipalities have 25%. of the apartments available to their authorizing authorities and not 100 per cent. But you can make agreements that go further than the 25%. You can typically do that to some of these communities if you want, but they only have the 25%. This means that the waiting list for ordinary people who are listed applies to the 75%. of the housing, as it has always done, and then the municipality uses its authorising rights for the remaining 25%, including collective housing in the general sector. Then Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: That's where I'm gonna have to say to Mr. Knox. Lars Dohn, that there is in the bill, as Mr. Lars Dohn has also seen a question that we are now setting up a housing exchange in relation to the agreement with KL, so that the municipalities and the Danes who want to house refugees can find each other. I can say that the initiative is being implemented in the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Relations. The task itself will be sent to an external player as soon as possible so that it is done. But there's a possibility that you can use this. Then Mrs Karina Adsbøl asked the question: Well, this is only 400-500 homes, so what about the rest? It can be said that in the agreement concluded with KL on 8 January, it is agreed to take a wide range of concrete measures which can meet the municipalities' challenges of finding and establishing housing, and this is just part of the measure. These are the collective settlement communities, but it is also part of the understanding with KL that the government will seek the consent of the Danish Parliament to a temporary amendment of the law of plans, whereby the municipalities will be able to grant derogations from the provisions on the purpose and application of a local plan in connection with the temporary accommodation of refugees. And then reference is made to a bill from the Minister for the Environment, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl rightly said. In addition, it is clear from the understanding that a pool of the Finance Act has been set aside for the reception and integration of refugees in the municipalities. It will be implemented at 125 million. kr. for investment in the municipalities. The government will provide an extraordinary integration grant of 200 million. kr. in 2015 to deal with the exceptionally high number of refugees. Finally, there is agreement between the government and the KL that further initiatives should be undertaken to support the reception of refugees by the municipalities. And the government will thus support the establishment of a housing exchange, which I have mentioned, where contact can be made between Danes who want to rent out to refugees/immigrants, and municipalities who have challenges in finding suitable housing. It is agreed that the implementation of these initiatives in the short term will cover the needs of the municipalities in relation to new refugee/immigrant families. That doesn't mean we're not going to discuss it in the future, but this is part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319133739	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319133745	I know it says 25%. authorising the municipal council, but this bill says that it is obvious for the municipality and the housing organisation to agree that the municipality gets 100 per cent. authorising law. Then I just have to say about the fact that this is also about students under whom the Minister is covering himself a little, that then it is paradoxical that it will only come now if it is to solve the student's housing problems. So it is related to what is in relation to refugees, and then you try to cover yourself under this in relation to the young people who are in need of housing. But it says that it is estimated that 400 of these homes will go to refugees. But I would really like to ask the Minister a question. It is up to the municipal council to decide whether or not they want the authorizing right. What if the municipal council says: Well, we don't want that; we don't want to apply the municipal authorising right here? I guess they can decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319133842	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319133844	Nowhere does it say that the municipal council has 100 per cent. Court of Auditors; it is 25 per cent that you have. And the 100 percent. you can agree to, but then you also have the obligation to pay the rent along the way. It's up to the housing company and the municipality to make the agreements. These are both independent legal entities. So you can do that. There are some places in Denmark where it has actually been done in addition to the situation we are in now to ensure a better mixed housing composition and other things. But it is always up to the municipality and the individual housing company in the departments where you do it. But it's nonsense to say there's 100 percent. authorising law. So it's only 25%. by legislation. In relation to students and disabled people and others who might benefit from a collective community of living in a general home, it is just the case that the law applies to everyone in Denmark. But it is clear that this is designed to accommodate a number of the refugees who come to Denmark. But the law is not designed so that it looks to a particular color or to a certain kind of people; it applies to all who will have the opportunity to use it and seek these homes which may now be set up in smaller dwellings than five-room homes. As far as the authorising court is concerned, it is not everywhere that 25% is spent. authorising law. There you agree if you go down on less, but the municipality has the right to go up to 25%. In some places you have 15%, elsewhere you have 10%, if you don't need to point out so many homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134007	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134009	So it is up to the municipal council itself to decide whether or not to apply the authorising court. I know, as I said earlier, that there are 25%. authorising law, but this bill says that it will be obvious that the municipality and the housing organisation will agree that the municipality will get 100 per cent. the right of authorising officer, so that each time a transfer takes place, the municipality will be able to decide to whom the housing organisation is to rent the vacant room. That's what I'm talking about. And it may be that it may be a little difficult to understand, or that I have expressed myself unclearly. But I just need the Minister's answer that it is the municipal council that decides whether they want to use these opportunities and that they can say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134049	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134050	I would like to repeat once again, for Mrs Karina Adsbøl and Prince Canute, that the authorising court is a right that you have; it is not a duty. It is a right to appoint up to 25%, and you can also agree more or less. In relation to this bill, there are no new rights or obligations for the municipalities, but it is clear that there are collective general communities to house refugees/immigrants or other groups, so you can make agreements up to 100 per cent, and that is what the bill says as an opportunity, but there are no new rights or obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134122	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danske Folkepartie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134126	Firstly, I would like to say that it may well be that the Minister is saying that this is general legislation. However, it has only been created because of the huge number of refugees who are currently flowing to the country because of the disgusting social benefits that you can get when you come to Denmark. And the bill is based on that situation, so it's a law that's made with this aim. I assume the Minister will agree with me on that. It was as if the minister was trying to run away from that relationship. I would also like to say that, when there is some kind of invitation or encouragement to use one hundred per cent of the authorizing rights, it is a positive measure in relation to refugees. I can't read it any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134221	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134222	It's not a matter of running from anything. This is an understanding, which is one of several building blocks now, where we receive 12,000 refugees, for whom we have to provide accommodation. One can then agree or disagree that we should receive them and all that, but in relation to the bill it is about giving some extraordinary opportunities in a place where there have not been opportunities before. We can now set up collective housing communities in smaller apartments than we could in the past, and this offers some new opportunities for creating 400-500 new room access and thus housing for people. Denmark has some obligations. We're going to receive these fugitives. We are also part of the war in Syria, which a majority in the Folketing, including the Danish People's Party, has decided. Victims are coming as a result of war, and there we see so differently whether we are going to put adults and children in camps or whether we are going to recapture them. But at the moment you have a right or a requirement that once you have become a recipient of asylum in Denmark, you must also have a place of residence. We can't have people living on the street.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134316	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134319	I would therefore like to say that the refugees who come to this country have no right to claim that they are going to Denmark. This is something the government has decided and the government can talk about certain obligations, but this is solely the responsibility of the government. It's not our responsibility. We believe that this could easily be solved in a completely different way, so that you don't create an influx of people who are going to stay here. These are already being fully integrated into Danish society at this stage, because the government knows very well that it is not going to take the initiative that these people will ever be sent home. So that means turning refugees into immigrants, and that's what this bill is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134407	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134408	I think we're way beyond the scope of the bill. I believe that the Danish People's Party and the government look very differently at how to treat people, how to treat people, and how to solve our international tasks. I think it is too far to go into a long-haired discussion about it. In this case, I believe that the government and the Danish People's Party strongly disagree on how other people should be treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134429	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Urban and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134445	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134502	Thank you, President. I am holding the rapporteur's speech on behalf of the Left and the Conservative People's Party. In recent years there has been political and media attention to so-called system export of youth education. In the youth education sector, too, there has been a desire to be allowed to export Danish education. A working group or expert group has been set up which has recommended the creation of a flexible legal framework under which an international offer of secondary education by Denmark can be officially recognised, including certification of diplomas, so as to provide access to relevant higher education or employment in the recipient country. The draft law is based on the recommendations of the expert group and on the model introduced for vocationally oriented higher education abroad in 2009. The draft law establishes the legal framework for a youth education institution, after approval by the Minister of Education, to offer youth education abroad in order to contribute to the quality development of Danish education. The provision of training is carried out as a separate revenue-covered enterprise. The approval requires a bilateral agreement between Denmark and another State, after which the provision of training is a professional qualification or admission to higher education in the other State. There will be administration for the State in connection with the approval of the tender, which will, however, be matched by payment for it. The organisation of supervision of institutions which have approved invitations to tender abroad and its administration is carried out within the existing framework. Therefore, the draft law does not have any economic impact on the state. Similarly, the institution's cost of payment for approval is assumed to be matched by revenue in the form of a participant payment. Finally, it is also important to note that the activities abroad are kept financially separate from Danish activities and that the supply abroad is carried out in a limited liability company. The offer abroad must not risk becoming a burden on the Danish activities, where state resources are transferred abroad. In these words, the Left and the Conservative People's Party recommend this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134725	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134733	Thank you. In Denmark we are good at education. They know that elsewhere in the world. Both from home and from abroad, it is a wish that we should be able to export our education programmes. This has been recommended by the group of experts, as my colleague from the Left has just as well explained. This means, on the one hand, the quality development of our Danish education programmes, and, on the other hand, that we can exploit the potential for exporting the knowledge and education competences we have in Denmark. It is a good proposal and the Socialists support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134815	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134820	Thank you. The LO has been very critical of this bill. They have held some meetings with the Danish Employers' Association and the Minister to further decouple it. These students on these courses abroad receive a certificate, and that proof is not immediately valid in Denmark. You don't automatically get some kind of license in Denmark. Does it not worry the Socialist rapporteur that the LO stresses that we can risk social dumping in Denmark and that Danish labour is exposed to unfair competition, because there are foreigners who now with a Danish youth education back can go to Denmark and get approval afterwards by the Ministry and then go out and force the salary down?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134917	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134920	Thank you. We're listening to the concern. That is also why meetings have been held. I am no more interested in social dumping and unfair competition than the LO is, on the contrary, I share the whole fight against the problem in which the LO is one of the front fighters, and that is why, of course, we listen when they are concerned. I would still like to recommend the draft law on the basis of the discussions that have taken place and on the basis of the result that is now being achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134949	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319134950	The rapporteur shares the concern with the LO, and the rapporteur also recognises that social dumping can take place and yet the rapporteur agrees to this. It doesn't add up. If the rapporteur were consistent in her speech, she would not recommend this bill. So the Socialist rapporteur accepts the risk of social dumping and wage pressure from foreign workers with Danish youth education in their backs. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135020	That is certainly not how it should be understood. I think that my good colleague from the Danish People's Party may be just eager enough in his efforts to put words into my mouth. What I said was that I share the LO's general fight against social dumping and not, in connection with this bill, recognise that it should be a very big problem. That is something that has been discussed. I think this is a very good proposal, and that is why I recommend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135048	Thank you to the rapporteur. You have to be careful with the direct speech, we don't use it. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135115	Thank you. The Danish People's Party is not particularly pleased with this bill. It allows youth education institutions to offer education abroad, it is of course flattering that abroad is willing to buy them, but our position is that schools must first and foremost spend time and effort on improving home education for our children and young people, and there is enough to tackle here, large dropouts, large re-elections, and in particular vocational education and training are facing many changes due to the reform of vocational training. It therefore seems strange that schools are already being allowed to embark on foreign adventures. We have also noted the objections of the social partners and that the Minister has amended the bill after meetings with them, and it is true that the Minister is listening. We have also understood that there are more and more countries offering their education abroad, but the question is whether we should not get our own to work in the first place before we send them out. We are aware that the Minister can intervene if the schools do not comply with a large number of rules, that pupils abroad do not immediately have the right to use their education in Denmark, and that the offer is made as a revenue-covered business. But basically it must be the case that one should aim to improve the education of Danish young people. After all, it is paid for by taxpayers. We also see that the school, that is to say the school that will offer, will only make profits in the fourth year, but who will then have to cover a deficit when the Minister closes the training? I'd like to get an answer to that. The bill also gives the Minister a wide range of powers. This can easily lead to a loose ministerial hand, especially in these strange times when borders are seen as something bad. One can also fear that there is a clever ulterior motive to the bill. You can train foreigners according to the Danish model. They can then subsequently seek work in Denmark and thus make it harder for Danes to get jobs. It has been the fear of the LO, and even though the bill has been tightened up, so that the test certificates abroad do not automatically apply, there will probably be many employers in Denmark who look at it very much when EU citizens from, for example, Denmark. Eastern Europe has a vocational training certificate from a school which has taught according to the Danish model. It could also be imagined that it will be a narrow matter to get your proof approved once you are in Denmark and the employers press the Ministry. This and other conditions will have to be looked at in committee before the Danish People's Party can express its opinion. So far, our arms are crossed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135427	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135437	Thank you. We have a well-functioning education system in Denmark. We can do something with pedagogy and learning, and in the Radical Left we believe that we can make our education even better and more international by strengthening the export of education. Creating Danish education abroad will provide a better common understanding and greater opportunities to collaborate with countries around the world. In several parts of the world, you are currently putting turbo on education, and Denmark has a strong opportunity to contribute. Our vocational training, stx, hhx, htx and hf, is something special in relation to the rest of the world. The Minister of Education has just been to Vietnam and I have read that the Ministry of Education in Vietnam wants to make teaching in Vietnam more interesting and inspiring for the students, and they have turned their eyes on Denmark, where the students are happy to go to school and become good at working independently. Our Danish education is based on a democratic education and offers the young people good opportunities in life, and unlike perhaps the Danish People's Party, I think it would be good not only to do so in Denmark but also to do so abroad. The desire of the educational institutions is there, and I am anxious to see what cooperation can come out to this, and that is why the Radical Left is happy to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135604	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135608	It is not surprising that the Radical Left is crazy about internationalisation and globalisation, and I have to come after you, nor is it a secret that with wage-pressing and social dumping there is nothing to which the Radical Left is particularly attached, so we know the answer to that. What I want to ask is more specific. The draft law says that a school will be allowed to run with deficits for three years, but only in the fourth year will there be a surplus, otherwise education will be closed. My question to the Radical Left is this: if there is no surplus in the fourth year, who is going to cover this deficit?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135655	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135657	It goes without saying that there must be some rubber band in the start-up, because it takes some time to establish an education abroad. Therefore, if you had to draw the consequences of what the Danish People's Party points out here, namely to say that there should be profits from day one, that would be the same as saying that it would probably not be possible at all. So I think that we have sensibly fenced it in by saying that yes, it is an investment to start training, but we also demand that it should run with profits, otherwise we will have to close it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135731	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135733	My question was actually very simple: who is going to cover the deficit if it turns out that in the fourth year there is no surplus and that therefore the Minister is going in and closing the training? Who's gonna cover it? Is it the school by taximeter and thus the Danish taxpayers, is it the Radical Left, is it the nursing home? Who's gonna pay for it? I have not received an answer to that and it is actually a very simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135757	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135759	I do not think the rapporteur offered that it could be the Danish People's Party 'no', joking aside. It is, of course, a question of making some investments at the start-up stage. And the reason why we are keen to fence it in and say: If it is not possible to make profits after the four years, you have to close, because it must not be the case that in the long term it will drain Danish education that you export them abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319135833	Thank you. From the SF's point of view, I would also like to say that we largely welcome the fact that youth education is now being given the opportunity to offer a number of youth education courses abroad. As in health, technology and everything else, it is a pleasure when we are so attractive and talented in Denmark that foreign countries actually have an interest in taking away our products. That is the way it should be when it comes to education. After all, Denmark is a knowledge society, and we must and want to act in the globalised world. We are well-known for our very highly qualified education system, and it is therefore only obvious that we are also using that product • our most important efforts in our own country, our own democracy to raise our level of education • to create development and, not least, some good incomes. In addition, a range of Danish degree programmes abroad helps to attract skilled, highly qualified students, intermediaries, teachers, researchers who help to improve and develop the Danish level of knowledge. But from the SF we also have some concerns that we have expressed through questions we have asked, and these are also some of the concerns that we will continue to follow, even if we go in and now say yes to this bill. The high Danish quality level must not be relaxed. In education in Denmark, as you know, the Ministry has to supervise to ensure that the educational institutions comply with the required Danish standards. I don't think so, but I don't know it's enough for the Ministry to carry out quality control on the Danish base of the degree programmes. Public supervision is necessary to ensure that education and training comply with Danish standards. I have asked the Minister for Education how quality assurance will be implemented, so that it also deals with international standards, and at this point I was answered that no decision has been taken at this stage on how quality assurance will be implemented. So I would strongly urge that, in the context of the draft law, some quality assurance guidelines be drawn up which ensure the necessary standards, even if we do not know which educational institutions choose to set up departments abroad at this stage. In addition, I also find it questionable that the draft law does not provide funds for the establishment of the institutions abroad. This could affect the smaller training courses which do not have the economic scope to set up branches abroad, and this could lead to a distortion between the large and small institutions. So I would call for consideration to be given to whether some form of scheme can be made • a fund or other • which ensures that smaller institutions also have the opportunity to offer their training abroad. It may well be that it was one of the smaller educational institutions that had exactly the skills that were needed. Finally, I would like to point out the concern I share with the LO about whether the bill will lead to social dumping. I also put questions to the Ministry about this, namely how the Ministry will avoid social dumping, and I was given the answer that the concern that it will lead to social dumping will be included in the further analysis work. It is deeply questionable that the risk of social dumping should not be taken more seriously, and we, the SF, want to work for and, at the same time, call for further work on the proposal to ensure that measures are taken to prevent the supply of training abroad from leading to social dumping. With these concerns and recommendations, SF helps to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140237	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140243	Thank you. The SF is concerned, but still votes in favour and is quite crazy about the proposal. I put a question to the Radical Left before the rapporteur came to the floor. It was a very simple question and I hope I can get an answer now, because I did not get it from the Radical Left. And since the SF is in favour of this bill, one must also have got to grips with that issue. It's very simple. The institution is allowed to run with a deficit for 3 years when it invests abroad; the fourth year there must be a surplus, otherwise the training will be closed. So my question to the rapporteur is: if there is no surplus in the fourth year and education is closed, who will pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140331	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140332	Yes, it is a very simple question, and there is also a very simple answer. It's just like other companies you start up, and if the company can't make a profit, it can't run around for good reasons. And that's also why our concern is actually in relation to the economy of this. But it will be the case that if an educational institution cannot make a profit abroad, it must close, and then it is the educational institution which is responsible for the deficit.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140401	Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140403	Well, it was nice for once to have a clear answer in the Assembly Hall. Annette Vilhelmsen Just ask SF! ) What it means is that the school is going to pay for this. In other words, it is the taxpayer and ultimately the pupil who will pay for this. Is SF really willing to manage the future of the Danish student and taxpayers' money in this way in foreign adventures? Am I really supposed to understand that SF is involved in this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140434	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140436	Yes, it is quite correct, as Alex Ahrendtsen says, that one can derive from the answer I gave that it is the educational institution that will pay for this. We have a great interest in Denmark that we can export, and we export, for example. In the area of the elderly, too. We have a number of other welfare benefits that we also export. It will always be the case that it is the company that takes the risk, which must also ultimately bear the deficit. That is why I pointed out very precisely what our concerns are, but it should not be the case that we do not have the courage to go abroad, which is actually asking for our competences, for the risk that things will not work out. In the end, however, it is the institution with the benefits that the institution will have to pay. In other words, there is no guarantee in Denmark that many upper secondary educations, for example. use a substantial part of their economy to advertise etc., and if you do not get the increased take-up you want, then it will also burden your institution's accounts, and it will also be the pupil who will ultimately pay for it. So yes, we're also very aware of this in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140547	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten, is the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140555	Thank you. I want to start by lifting the veil that we in the Enhedslist can't support this bill. We cannot do this because basically in the Enhedslisten we do not believe that education is a commodity. We believe that this is a right. We do not believe that Danish educational institutions should use energy to export education. We believe that Danish educational institutions should use energy to train pupils who are now in the institutions. We share a little the same concern that I can almost hear that the Danish People's Party has, namely: What happens if these investments let's call them that abroad can't run around? So who's gonna pay? These are the pupils that the institutions have in Denmark. Then they get the We share LO's concern about social dumping. We share the high school students' and commercial school students' concern that this bill will mean that the focus will be shifted from the Danish educational institutions and the courses offered in Denmark to use the pupils' own expression, speculative investments abroad. And then I would just like to add that just because Danish educational institutions spend money on advertising and that it does not always go as well, it is not an argument that we should then just do the same abroad. Then it is more of an argument that we may have to do things differently and say to the educational institutions: the money that you get to do education for, you need to do education for, and not on, radio and cinema advertising, etc. We can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140744	Thanks to Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319140800	We are now considering L 160, draft law on the provision of upper secondary education abroad. In the Liberal Alliance, we see the need for international vision in the Danish education sector. In general, we see too much inwards towards our own navels, and when we do that, we also sometimes think that we are much better at education than we might be. The quality of education in Denmark is not as excellent as we imagine. So we would very much like us to look outwards and also to start to compare ourselves more with other countries, both in terms of upper secondary education and also in terms of higher education. But today we are talking about system export of youth education. The prerequisites for making such system exports are, of course, that there is demand and that the content is competitive. It will certainly be in some parts of the world when we talk about the upper secondary educations that are in this bill. But we must also be aware of what we want with such system exports. What are we going to get out of this in Denmark, what are the young people going to get out of it, what are we going to learn from it? Should new opportunities arise for Danes in relation to employment abroad? Should education institutions be given new sources of income and thus improve quality in Denmark? It's a little unclear with this bill what it really is we're gonna get out of it. The proposal on the table includes that the courses started abroad are self-employed training with a revenue-covered business. It is assumed that taximeter money is not included, as I understand it, and that there are waterproof bulkheads between the Danish educations paid by taxpayers and the educational establishments that start up abroad. In the Liberal Alliance, as I said, we are in favour of the intention of this proposal, but there are so many questions left unanswered. How will a publicly funded institution be able to start training abroad without an investment and thus increased costs and risks to be borne by taxpayers? I do not think we can see that from the text that we have been given. Why is it that the proposal does not include private providers of youth education in Denmark? So in the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the possibility of exporting training concepts recognised in Denmark and officially approved, but we also believe that such exports should be made by private operators who will then bear the investment and risk of such a project. Too many of the laws passed in this Things are adopted with the system as a focal point, without regard to the citizens who have to pay for the system's expansion. And I would like to say here that I consider it to be most likely that taxpayers in Denmark with this law will pay for investment adventures abroad. Such investments will be made by people who, as far as I can see here, do not expose themselves to an economic risk and thus, of course, increase the overall risk for the projects. So, yes, thank you for exporting Danish education, no, thank you for a model in which the public and therefore taxpayers must bear the risk of such investment. There's a nice tank in L 160, but the model that's on this table is a round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141137	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141141	Thank you. I understand the Liberal Alliance as being reasonably in favour of this proposal, but what is missing is to get even more out of it, so that this cannot mean that the taximeter money that we are paying the youth education institutions today from the state can be used in other countries. Is it correctly understood that this is what LA is missing in order to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141206	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141208	No, that is not correctly understood. The taximeter money is indeed the largest part of the economy in education, but only part of it. I would say that I see it as completely practically impossible for a Danish educational institution to start an educational establishment in another country without there being an investment. And that investment can also be in time and man-hours, and it can be quite costly, and it is therefore taxpayers who pay. And again, that way, you have the place of education somewhere else, i.e. abroad. The economy has to go to zero after four years, but what if it doesn't? Then the taxpayers will have to pay. All other things being equal, it would be much better to say that training which was officially approved could be sold and continued by private operators, who then bear the risk of making an investment abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141303	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141305	It would have been the best. But is it not also the case that our youth education is self-serving and therefore private?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141314	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141315	They are therefore self-serving, more than they are completely private, and there is therefore a degree difference there. And again, the issues that are here in relation to the legislative proposal that I have just read out, I think I should also be divided by the Left, because the Left should also be very, very concerned that it will not therefore be the taxpayers who will have to pay for some investment adventures that do not directly benefit taxpayers. We in the Liberal Group should be quite concerned about this, in other words that it is not what is going to happen, and I do not hear it quite.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141351	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Daniel Rugholm, who does not appear to be present in the Chamber, has, in this way, gone over to the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319141408	Thank you for the floor. Then allow me to say that I remember the rapporteur of the Left saying that the support and arguments of the Left also applied to the Conservative People's Party. That is why I would like to express my gratitude for the majority of people who support the draft law, which provides for the possibility of providing youth education abroad. When you listen to the discussion, you should think that it is completely new that there is no experience at all, but that is not the case. It is indeed the case that in higher vocational education, the possibility has been given back from 2009. I am therefore sure that some of the concerns that have been raised here were also taken into account at the time, but this has actually been taken into account, and we have a skeleton to the legislation that has been in relation to higher vocational education, and that is why I hope that when we get the answer to the questions about some of the more technical and economic prerequisites that have been reported here, it might be possible to convince some of the parties that have been sceptical that this is a good idea anyway. This is really just to say that it opens up an opportunity that we have given to other higher education, and it also makes sense for relevant youth education, not least in the field of vocational education, which offers both vocational training and a range of adult and continuing training activities. I'd like to put a few pictures on what this really means. It is true, as has been mentioned, that I had the pleasure of leading the first training export delegation, where, on the basis of the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, we have decided to work with Vietnam as a model country to establish training cooperation. When Vietnam has been chosen as a model country, it is partly because Denmark has a historical tradition of working together in the field of education and partly because we have already established some of the understanding agreements that need to be made so that we recognise each other's education and training. Vietnam is one of the emerging economies of Asia. They have an average growth rate of 5%. A number of Danish companies have settled in Vietnam, and what is interesting about Vietnam is that they simply lack employees with relevant vocational training programmes. We simply do not have vocational training, as we do in Denmark. One of the specialities we have in Denmark is that we have a well-developed vocational training system, including adult and continuing training, and there is a great interest in learning from the pedagogy and the way we work with vocational training. That is why it makes great sense that in these areas, just as we already have the opportunity in higher education, we should establish joint cooperation with educational institutions abroad, which can offer training which has exactly the high quality and the examinations that count, so that it can also be used further in the labour market and in higher education. That's what this is all about. Something we did in Vietnam was to discuss with the Danish companies the incredibly important opportunity it provides for them to get well-trained employees. It also gives the second that it helps the Danish institutions providing training abroad and one of the majors doing so is among other things. In this way Niels Brock can also help to internationalise their own degree programmes in Denmark because there is both student exchange and teacher exchange. In this way you get plus plus plus because you allow for revenue-covered business abroad on courses that are required. I think it is good that we can be proud that there is a real, great interest abroad and, above all, in the business-oriented area where we have a long and good and strong educational tradition with high-quality education, but it also gives something back to the Danish programmes when we want to internationalise the question of what students and students should bring with them of competences. It is true that there has been a dialogue between the Ministry and also the Minister with both the LO and DA on the basis of critical consultation responses from the LO. These discussions have been good. They have also meant that some changes and clarifications have been made so that the social partners agree that what is here is very sensible. I would like to mention some of the points that have been clarified in the light of the discussions and also other consultation responses. Firstly, it is a clarification that the provision of vocational training abroad must be adapted to the needs and conditions of the recipient country. The courses approved for tender abroad will not be eligible for tender in Denmark and will not automatically qualify in Denmark. This is among other things. some of what came from the discussion with the LO and DA. Another point I would like to mention in the light of the discussions with the parties is the proposal that the approval of invitations to tender for full vocational training abroad be granted at the joint request of the institution and its trade committees. That is to say, the parties are fully aware of the way we know it in Denmark. A third thing that came up is that we also round the way in which we translate this into vocational training. What has been asked, among other things, is: SF is whether there's a risk of this opening up to social dumping. Of course, the government could not dream of opening up social dumping through legislation. We have done everything we can to combat social dumping, and of course we will not sneak in the back with this proposal. That is precisely why we are giving an extra round to vocational training to be absolutely sure that this concern can be voiced in the ground. Moreover, we ask the REU to make a recommendation before the final approval of the provision of vocational training. So we have tried to take account of the objections that have been raised and also note that the social partners believe that the amendments to the legislative proposal that have been made here have succeeded. It is worth noting, because it has been a discussion, that we have also developed the comments in the draft law on the means which the institutions will be able to inject in the context of invitations to tender abroad, such as: The Danish People's Party has travelled. What has now been specified is that such activities must be carried out as a separate revenue-covered company and that the offer of training abroad must therefore not be financed by Danish taximeter grants. We can hear that some of the parties that are sceptical may be convinced if we provide good answers to the questions that arise from concern. Of course, we will do everything we can to do that, because this is actually a great opportunity both to establish good Danish education abroad and to help internationalise the education programmes here in Denmark. So, with these words, I would like to say that I look forward to the committee work that will come in connection with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142043	Thank you. Those are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142050	Thank you. After all, the LO remains concerned, as they express in their consultation answer, but of course they accept the bill. I have a question. Eastern European countries can then change their education if for example. a Danish educational institution exports an education there. You get a Danish education. After completing education, as an EU citizen, you can travel to Denmark, you have a certificate in your hand, and that does not apply directly in Denmark, but you will then be able to get it approved in Denmark and therefore enter on an equal footing with everyone else with a vocational training course. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142138	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142140	What's in this bill is that you have to be able to offer Danish degree programmes with exams, which also count with the value they need. What has been the dilemma is that they have not done so, but what the expert group has revealed is that it is what has been demanded from Danish educations that are there; i.e. Niels Brock, as I mentioned, offers courses in Vietnam, but they just cannot do so that it counts fully and completely with the quality and value of a Danish exam. After all, the government believes that it is a great advantage to be able to study in different countries, but it must of course be high-quality studies and with a diploma, so we know that it has the value it should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142216	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142219	The minister answers in the east when I ask in the west. I'd better ask the question in writing so I can get the answer on paper. The second question I have is about the deficit. After four years there must be a surplus and if there is no surplus, the Minister closes the training. Who's gonna pay for this deficit that's been worked up by the taxpayers, the school itself, who's gonna pay? I have not yet been able to get an answer to that except for what the SF has said, that is, that they want the school to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142244	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142247	In other words, it will be the case that we have to meet the requirements of this draft law, and in order to do so, both a separate pre- and a separate post-calculation of a tender abroad must be carried out, and it is precisely to have an assessment of whether there is a solid economic foundation for it. But it is true that there may be a risk of what I know for reasons, and this is not just true of this area; it will also be true of the legislation that already exists for higher education, and there it will ultimately be education even in relation to the wealth that you have. But that is precisely why it is clear what it is that is needed in order to advance is on as safe a basis as possible: that the economy is capable of bearing it. This is also a response to the Liberal Alliance, which asks in relation to small private colleges that it is precisely because they are small and that it is quite unrealistic to imagine that they will have the economy needed to invest abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142337	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Peter Juel Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142341	Thank you. I am a little on a foreign ground here, because the reason I ask questions to the Minister is simply to help my good friends in the LO. I sometimes have a dialogue with them. But I can hear from the questions to the Minister here that the rest of the Folketing is not fully aware of the process that has been going on. When you read through the consultation answers, you can see that the LO has given two consultation answers. First there was one hearing answer, then there was one process and then there was another hearing response. Could the Minister not help us all to explain the process very briefly, so why the LO has given two hearings, which has meant that the Folketing is only aware of the last consultation answer given by the LO?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142425	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142427	On the basis of the first consultation answer given by the LO, we decided to enter into a dialogue because we saw that, in order to be better at explaining the intentions of the bill, it might also be that the LO had some points where we needed to tighten up the bill, we could have a process, not just with the LO, but also with the DA. This is because, when we talk about vocational training, the parties are very close to it, and that is also why there is a further process in which the Council for Basic Vocational Training also comes into play. On the basis of these discussions, we have clarified a number of points in the draft law that I started by reviewing. This also means that both LO and DA say that the bill contains it as it should and that the concerns that were have been fenced in.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142511	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142517	Thank you. First of all, I cannot help saying that I thought it was a very strange way of excluding them by saying that they might not be able to decide for themselves whether or not they can handle investment abroad. I'd probably leave that to the private high schools to assess for themselves, I must admit. So I think that is a strange reason not to include them in the bill. Anyway, I have two questions. One is about Denmark in Vietnam. All right, that sounds good and so on, and it is clear that it can benefit Vietnam if you do some training that does not already exist there. I would say that the business case, i.e. that, as in Denmark, if there is a Danish company in Vietnam, we should follow with a Danish youth education course, should be a good business case, I think quite unlikely. So I would like the Minister to explain, just as he does, what in the world it really is that the Danish taxpayers get out of having an eud in Vietnam. So a very specific question: can the Minister guarantee that Danish taxpayers will not pay for public educational investment abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142618	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142620	In relation to the Danish business case one should remember that there has been a group of experts who have made a number of recommendations on the basis of having also covered different markets, and I would recommend the members here from the Folketing to dive into them, because there are indeed many good examples of among others. What the Liberal Alliance is asking for. That was among other things. two Danish companies we visited, both of which were in the graphics industry, and what they both had to tell of stories was that they had expanded their business considerably, and the interesting thing was that they had been able to expand their business in Denmark by having established themselves in Vietnam. So it was plus-plus both places. They would not have been able to expand the company in Denmark if they had not also had the global part of the company in Vietnam. It could also be another country, but now it was Vietnam that they had established themselves in. What was their dilemma in relation to Vietnam was that there are no graphic vocational training courses such as those we know here, and this meant that they could not get well-educated employees in the field. There it is a great advantage for Danish companies that they can actually get the opportunity to get well-trained employees for their company. And again, that is one of the good things about globalisation, namely that it is not minus-minus. This gives, when done in the right way, in the right way, a contribution to the company in Denmark, by being able to establish themselves abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142734	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142737	There are times when Liberals and Social Democrats speak their own language completely, and we do so in this context too, because if I were a small Danish company in Vietnam, I would also think it was wonderful if it were for the Danish state to provide an education that just fit into my hug. That would certainly be good for the company. The question is • and unfortunately I find no Danish word that is just as good whether it is a good business case, i.e. whether it is a profitable investment compared to what it costs. That is the question here: is it reasonable to ask taxpayers to bear the risk and possible investment? That is why I would ask the Minister to say quite clearly that she can guarantee that it will not be Danish taxpayers who will bear both the risks and the costs of these investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142824	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142826	You have to remember that when it's now I'm using Niels Brock as a case here again... they're setting up an education abroad, the students who go on it pay for the education. That's why it runs over the revenue-covered business. Just to give some figures that illustrate in relation to Niels Brock, the last years had a turnover of 20 million. kr. in relation to the fact that they provide their training abroad, which was then taken as a whole, the turnover paid them a profit of 6 million. kr. This is what the whole idea is, namely that it actually offers an opportunity that Danish education through the revenue-covered company can both establish some training that is needed abroad, and also help to internationalise the training programmes at home in Denmark. Then it is so in relation to the economy, as I said earlier to Alex Ahrendtsen, that we have also clarified how the rules are in relation to a revenue-covered company, but it is true that in worst case, at the very end, if it is not succeeded, but that is why both pre- and post-calculation, it will be the wealth of the educational institution in question that is being drawn on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142926	Thank you. So no one else has asked for the floor. Thank you, Minister. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319142945	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143017	The motion for a resolution, B 71, requires the government to examine how children and young people with special needs can be guaranteed the possibility of being admitted to free primary schools through freer choice of school. The resolution instructs the government to examine how municipalities can be obliged to allow the financial contribution to accompany the child and, at the same time, to analyse the financial consequences of such a proposal, provided that it does not involve additional public expenditure. We in the government are immediately concerned about that proposal. Nor am I sure that the associations of free schools will agree with the financing model that lies here. This is because the outcome of such a study can affect the whole of the existing and, I would stress, the functioning of the state subsidy system for the free primary schools. At the same time, it will oppose the forthcoming bill on the introduction of a new taximeter-based model for special education grants, etc., which has been created in close cooperation with the free schools associations. A model of local municipal funding will mean that the grants of the free primary schools will depend on the level of service of each municipality in terms of expenditure on special education. And in this way, unfortunately, the model breaks with the principle that free primary schools receive a uniform subsidy regardless of the location of the school. For the municipalities, a grant model, as proposed, could limit the municipalities' management possibilities in the field of special education and could therefore lead to derived municipal additional costs. The government expects to put forward the bill for a new grant scheme for special education in the free schools next week. The bill proposes a conversion of the grant system to a taximeter model where grants are granted at a rate per tonne. special education student on the basis of a known historical activity. The rates are fixed on the basis of the annual financial laws and it is planned that the rates will be fixed on the basis of the recommendation of the associations of the free primary schools. That this is a taximeter model, that is, where special education grants are awarded at one or more rates per year. The special education student is an administrative simplification both for schools and for the Ministry in relation to the current grant scheme. In future, schools will not have to submit a single application to the Ministry, and the Ministry will not have to deal with single applications. The basis of calculation is a known historical activity. It provides budget security for both schools and ministries. The budgetary security of schools gives them better opportunities to organise the necessary efforts to take account of the needs of pupils. Overall, this is a good legislative proposal, on which there is a great consensus, both politically and with the associations of free schools. I would like to stress that we have a long tradition that when we do something in this area, it is done in a close dialogue with the associations of free schools. In other words, we have worked long and hard on precisely special education, and there is broad support for what is contained in the legislative proposal that is being put forward. As I have said, the government is concerned about the resolution that lies here. The outcome of the study may affect the entire existing and well-functioning State grant system for the free primary schools. At the same time, it will oppose the municipal bill on the introduction of a new taximeter-based model for grants for special education, etc., which we have, as I said, made in close cooperation. However, the government is prepared to carry out a study as proposed in the motion for a resolution, although it may be difficult to see how the model can be cost-neutral for the public sector. If necessary, the analysis must be carried out in cooperation with the associations of free schools, possibly also with the National Association of Municipalities. Against this background, a study will have as a starting point to identify the current financial responsibility and the payment flows between the municipalities and the free primary schools when pupils with special needs switch to a free primary school, and to examine possible alternative models for special education grants to the free primary schools, where the municipalities' financial grants to pupils with special needs in the primary school follow the pupils by switching to a free primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143426	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143433	Indeed, I was rather early in the Minister's speech, when the Minister completely rejected the motion for a resolution, and the Minister ends up saying yes to a study anyway. Should I understand that the government intends to vote in favour of this resolution? It is true that the motion for a resolution states that Parliament requires the government to investigate only. Does the government intend to vote in favour of the resolution? That would be extraordinary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143509	The government cannot, of course, support the motion for a resolution, but we are actually handing out a hand and saying that the study that is being asked for will be open to us, and I have put a few words on what the terms of reference for that study could be. But there should be no doubt that we think this is a bad resolution. In fact, we also think that it comes a little like an elephant in a glass shop after we have had good long discussions with the associations of the Free Primary Schools. Next week there will be a bill with the support of the Free Primary Schools, in relation to how special education is being worked. But we also feel that if an investigation is asked, we would like to look at it. But we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143543	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143545	I'm really confused on a higher level. In other words, the motion for a resolution is about carrying out a study, and the Minister thinks that is fine. But the Minister also thinks it bad that a study is being proposed here. If the Minister wants to do an investigation and thinks it's a good idea, why aren't the Minister and the government voting in favour of this? What we just want is an investigation. This is Christiansborg when it's worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143609	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143610	We disagree with the terms of the motion for a resolution. We also want to clarify what it makes sense to investigate. That is what we are talking about, and that is what we are discussing in committee. But, of course, we shall vote against the resolution as a starting point. We think, as I have explained very clearly, that it is going to be completely wrong in what I thought there was broad political support for, namely that when we do something in relation to the free schools, we will do so in close cooperation with the associations of the Free Primary Schools, and in the coming week there will be a proposal to deal with special education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143643	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143647	I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for his speech and, in particular, the last part of the Minister's speech in relation to raising his hand. I am delighted, because that is exactly what I am able to tell the Minister that I have spent a very long time on, among other things. also with the free schools, to get buried in this miser, as I think it is. What I would like the Minister's answer to is whether the Minister can not confirm that, as it is today, the system has been put together in such a way that the free schools intersect, which I believe is the word they use, is part of what they are given for the ordinary education, and put in a pool that can then be searched for in order to cover the costs of special education. And that is actually what I would like the Minister to confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143739	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143741	That's right. The scheme for inclusion grants will soon have to be evaluated, and it is also my expectation that the school associations will then cease to allocate more funds to special education within the pool as there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143754	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143756	Thank you. I have to say that I think there is a little challenge, because it can be said that the more the pool is allocated to special education, the better you can take social responsibility as a free school, the better the demand there will be for the money in this pool. This means that in some way there is a conflict, at least the money is removed from ordinary education in order to be able to take social responsibility in relation to the children who need special education. And that means that, at some point, there is an upper limit to how many people can then accept, otherwise the children who really need to have the ordinary education will suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143840-2	It is, of course, as the rapporteur knows, that we are in the middle of a change in the whole of the inclusion work, both in relation to the primary and the free primary schools, and in this transition it is also the case that the free primary schools have received a special inclusion grant for this. And it is on the basis of that and the model we are now presenting in the draft law that we have done in close cooperation with the free primary schools and which they support that we consider that what is going to happen is moving a little more money to that pool. But one cannot quite compare it with the primary school; it is a discussion on how to allocate funds within the economy of free primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143917	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319143921	Thank you. One of the most popular accusations against free primary schools on the part of the Social Democratic Party is that free primary schools do not take enough social responsibility, and this can be discussed for a long time. In any case, it can be said that they do not have the same economic conditions for doing so as the primary school, since the coupling rate is only 71 per cent, and since no money is given to children who have special needs. And here comes the opposition, it can be said, by saying: should we not set it in such a way that when resources are allocated to a child, the parents of that child can take them to where they want the child to go to school? Then we solve it in relation to the accusation so often made by the Social Democratic Party. The Minister must be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144010	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144012	I have the impression that nobody in the free primary school world has asked to make such a model as there is here, because it completely breaks with the way in which it is solved the inclusion task, and that is also why what we are saying is that we do not support the proposal here. In fact, we too, some of the parties here, are a little puzzled by the fact that one has such a radical desire for how it can be done differently, because there is therefore a certain amount of economy in it. It does say that it is expected that it will be cost-neutral. We find that difficult to see if it was implemented, but that does not change the fact that the part that is about investigating it is one that we would like to take part in. So this is a different discussion from the one that Merete Riisager is raising. I do not have a fundamental view as to whether one form of school or another form of school is better at showing social responsibility. I note, for example, that the Afterschool Association is very actively involved in how the post-schools should contribute to social responsibility and that is good and they belong to the free primary schools. After all, this is about the value base you put behind your business.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144112	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144115	Thank you. It sounds very surprising that the Minister does not know about the quite classic charge against the free primary schools, which have, after all, raised a number of times from many members of the Social Democratic Party. But again, after all, this is about a study; it is about exploring the possibilities for parents who have children with special challenges, special conditions, to have a free choice of school. Is it not classical social democratic policy that parents who have particularly challenged children should also have the freedom to choose the school form they think best?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144152	It must be the case that you have an opportunity to choose different types of school. Today, this is the case, as is the legislation that we are presenting next week in relation to special education, and which has been discussed in close cooperation with the associations of free primary schools. So it is not a question of whether someone can choose a free primary school or not; it is a question of whether special education grants have been put together in the right way, and, as I said, we have a legislative proposal on this subject, with the broad support of free primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144220	Thank you to the Minister for Education. Then we start with the series of speakers by rapporteurs, and the first is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144247	Thank you. I am standing here on behalf of my colleague, Mrs Annette Lind, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be here as rapporteur today, and is giving the speech on behalf of the Socialists. For us Socialists, it is very important that we ensure good and safe schooling for all children, of course also those who have special needs; it is a job that we are already doing. That is why we also welcome a debate on whether there is anything we can do even better. At the same time, however, as the Minister has already explained very well, we also have a bill from the government on the steps to be taken to simplify and facilitate administrative support for special education in the free primary schools. We in the Socialist Group would like to take part in a closer look at this, but we are sceptical about the very proposal for the model that is being proposed. That is why we do not support the proposal, but we look forward to the government's proposal coming next week, and we look forward to the study being launched.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144401	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144408	Thank you. I would actually like to ask the rapporteur something that I also asked the Minister about. As things are screwed up today, it is in this way that it is the pool that the free schools receive in switching rates that you take part in and earmark for special education, and it really does mean that there is a conflict, when at the same time there are some who say that free schools do not take enough social responsibility. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this. Is it not a problem, also as a Social Democrat, that it is not ensured that these pupils also have the free choice of school and thus can choose a free school, because there is in fact now a system that limits that possibility, because the cost of each free school can simply be so high that they are forced to say no to admit a pupil with these special needs, because the school itself is typically going to have to find a large proportion of the costs that will be incurred by taking up such a pupil?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144513	I very much agree with the Minister who has just answered the same question, and I look forward to what will come from the government next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144523	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, on behalf of the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144526	So I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of how many integrated pupils have already been admitted to free schools today. Is there not an opportunity for the rapporteur to support finding a solution so that they can actually continue to take great social responsibility and have these pupils integrated into the ordinary classes of free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144600	I am very much in favour of a free choice of schools also applying to children with special needs. That is also why I look forward to what comes from the government next week. It is an ambition that we share. We just do not share the rapporteur's proposals on how to implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144618	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144622	It is also a very simple question that I expect the rapporteur to answer: is it not true that a number of Social Democrats and, to that extent, SFs and people from the Enhedslisten have attacked free schools in Denmark in order not to take social responsibility? Last year there was a big article in the Sunday newspaper. There have also been a large number of cases in Politiken. I understood from the Minister that she was not really aware of that. So can the rapporteur not just confirm that the left has accused Danish free schools of not lifting social responsibility? I forgot the Radical Left, I think they did the same thing. I think so, but I'm not sure. I don't remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144709	I can confirm so much that I would like to see the free primary schools in Denmark take even greater social responsibility. I believe that this is something we must share.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144720	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144722	I take that as a yes, that is to say that the free schools have been accused of not taking social responsibility. Then perhaps the rapporteur knows that they do. Studies have been carried out to show that the free schools take social responsibility as much as the primary schools. But they do it without getting the same means. So would it not be good to look into how we can deal with it so that they have a fairly equal opportunity to take on the social responsibility that the rapporteur would like them to take on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144755	It is therefore a good thing that we have just indicated today that we are going to start a study on this very subject and are also doing this work, in which the Minister has just stood on the same platform and said that there is a proposal which is on the right track and which, in cooperation with the sector itself, has been under way for a long time. It must, of course, be thoroughly worked through. It is an ambition for us that free primary schools take social responsibility, and we are working on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144831	Then it is Mrs Merete Riisager for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144835	Thank you. The rapporteur says that parents of children with special needs must have free choice of school. I think it is excellent that the rapporteur says so, and I will keep the rapporteur up to that. But if we imagine that they do, is it reasonable that it is the other children in the class in a free primary school who have to pay for the special needs that that child may have?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144906	Thank you. It would actually have been quite nice if the rapporteur had just stopped after the rose, it would have been a fine comment. It seems to me that the answer has been given to that by several rounds, both by the Minister and also by myself. We're working on this, this work is working together with the sector, and there's going to be a proposal that will go further down this road and that's just on the stairs. But that is not the same as the fact that I and the Socialists agree with what has been said here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144943	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319144945	No, but that's not what I asked. I did not ask about one or the other proposal, I asked quite in principle that if a mother and a father have a child with special needs and they are looking for an ordinary municipal school, then you can bring some money there to meet the special needs. If you go to a free school, the other kids have to pay. Is it reasonable to have a situation where the other children in the class pay for the particular needs that a child may have? Is this a reasonable situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145022	I believe that we can make the grant rules better than they are today, with this in mind too. And that is also why, on several occasions, I have now praised the government for having a proposal drawn up in cooperation with the sector on its feet.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145037	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145041	That is a very brief comment. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on starting by pointing out that it is a speech that is being read out on behalf of the Socialist Group's usual rapporteur, after which the rapporteur is available to answer all the good things from the sea. Great recognition for it, because it is not a desirable situation, and I do not think that is the way our debates should be. So I have no more comments, other than that this matter is really too important for us not to uphold the principles we have for debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145114	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145123	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur for the Socialist Group. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145132	That was a funny remark from the SF. However, we are in a Parliament hall where we have the opportunity to ask questions, and we use that, and we do it quite humorously and with profit, so I don't know what that schoolmaster-like shape was meant for. First of all, I would like to thank the Left for taking the initiative on this proposal. The Danish People's Party supports it and is part of it, and it is a great pleasure to be part of it. It's been a fine cooperation. I think what is happening in the Chamber is a little funny. The Minister has clearly said that she supports a study; she thinks it is a good idea for us to have this looked into. When you ask her if she will vote in favour, she says that she thinks it is a strange proposal, so no, she will not, because she thinks it is a strange proposal and she completely disagrees with the premise. But that is something that can be supported and supported at the same time. Because what does it say? It says that we are instructing the government to investigate and it actually says twice how the municipalities can fix this. Why are we doing this? This is because we know that there are different practices in the municipalities. Some do what we would like the Minister to investigate, others do not, and that is a pity for the free schools. That's why the task of this proposal is to do a study that finds out how we can screw this up... not that we're supposed to how... and then it may be that this study shows that it doesn't add up at all. So the Minister can just say yes to this proposal. She says she wants to do that study, but then she says no. It is such a strange Christiansborglogic where you per. in writing. - (DE) Automatically says no to the opposition's motion for a resolution. I hope one day, in this Chamber, that we can say yes to the opposition's motion for a resolution because it actually seems to be working. I do not know what will happen after the next elections, and it may well be that there will be a new majority, and it may well be that we will be presented with a number of resolutions, but I hope that we will be a little better at dealing with resolutions than this government and the previous governments have been. I really think it's something weird. Why don't you just say yes to this for once? Surprise us all! That could be news. The minister turns in the middle of the hall, she sees the light... let's do an examination of this. Well, I'm not gonna say anything more about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145410	There is a brief comment from Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145412	A little cheerfulness in this Chamber is good. I would like to point out that if the proposal had only been about us starting a study so far, then the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives would also be aware that it is in progress and that a bill is actually being tabled next week. However, the comments state: "The proposal requires the government to examine how the municipalities can be obliged to allow the financial contribution to follow the children concerned, while analysing the financial consequences of such a proposal, provided that it does not involve additional public expenditure. It is precisely here that this is a significant change in the way in which the grant is granted. So it is not just a question of conducting an investigation, but a question of breaking with a known principle. I would like to make a comment on that by Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145505	That is an easy answer, because we cannot just make a resolution saying that we are instructing the government to investigate. Because what's it gonna investigate? If the moon is green? No, of course we have to write what we want examined. That goes without saying, otherwise we are wasting the Minister's time, and we do not want that after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145526	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145528	But there is also reason to be aware of whether this is an investigation or whether it is an investigation which requires a breach of a fundamental principle which has at least until now been applied to the distribution of funds to free schools. So that's the part that may be disagreeable about. Will Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145548	No, I'm not going to agree with the SF in the end. What I want to repeat is that the Folketing instructs the government to investigate how it is very clear. We'd like it checked out. We're not ordering the government to introduce this. We're not ordering SF to do it this way. We're just ordering the government to investigate. So SF should actually be able to say yes to this. I would therefore urge you to break Christiansborg's logic here too. Then we could all take each other's hands and go outside the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145624	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319145632	Thank you. Actually, it's sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen's area, but he couldn't be here, so I promised to take this speech for him. The rapporteur and I of the Left have now also discussed this proposal on a number of occasions, and I find that we agree on the objective of giving free schools a good opportunity to shoulder their social responsibilities. We radically agree with the proposers that it is a problem that some free schools today feel that they have to say no to some pupils because they cannot cover their costs. And in the Radical Left, as in the Left, we believe that free schools can have a special approach to education, which is good for these children, and that is why we would also like to help find a solution. On the other hand, we disagree with the proposers about the funds, because the proposers want to impose a study on the government which, in our view, is partly not economically linked and is not the right model from a radical point of view. First of all, the Left wishes to make a municipal task a task for the municipality, so as to oblige the municipalities to allow the financial contribution to follow the children concerned, provided that it does not involve additional public expenditure. One might say, on the one hand, that it sounds quite logical, that it costs nothing to say to the municipalities, that they should give the money they would have spent anyway to the free schools, but if you ask people who are smarter at economic negotiations than I am, they say, on the other hand, that it is not possible because municipalities will always demand money for new tasks. Secondly, and I think that is the important and good reason for this, we in the Radical Left do not like the model that the Left and the others are setting up. For us, it is good about the free schools that they are independent of the municipalities both educationally and financially. With this model, the proposers want to make the free schools dependent on the economy of each municipality. Nor do I have the impression that free schools are particularly fond of the proposal. In my view, this is also a bit at odds with the forthcoming legislative proposal that we will be wearing next week and which has been drawn up in close dialogue with the free schools. In the Radical Left, we would rather be helping to solve the challenge with the free schools, and it is therefore our view that if a study is to be carried out, it must be done in cooperation with the free schools. In our view, the free schools belong to the Finance Act, and that would therefore also be where we saw that a solution had to be found. This can be done either by earmarking a larger proportion of the existing funds available to free schools for schools which take social responsibility, or by increasing the overall subsidy, that is to say, the ratio of connections to free schools. The latter would be preferable, but it does require agreement on this in the Finance Act. After all, it was the Left that decided to cut subsidies for free schools, and they also emphasise again in this proposal that it must be cost-neutral. That is why the Radical Left is voting against.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150002	Then there are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150010	Thank you. Now I know that the rapporteur read out someone else's speech. However, I know that the rapporteur is close to the whole school area, so it may well be that the rapporteur can nevertheless answer the question. I would like to stress that I am also pleased that the Radicals think it is important to have this examined and actually support the fact that it is now important to dig deeper into the spade. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. I assume that this means that the legislative proposal which will then come next week will not solve this problem. What I am hearing is that it is a step in the right direction, as I think the Socialist rapporteur also described it, but it will not be achieved with the legislative proposal coming next week. As a result, I think it is nice to hear that there are more of us who think it is important to have this study done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150116	We believe that we are taking an important step with the legislative proposal coming next week. However, I also agree with the rapporteur that we would like to take the next step. I simply disagree with the model proposed by the Left, because it does away with the basic independence of the municipalities of the free primary schools, which is why I do not like that model very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150135	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150138	It's also really nice, but then look into something more and come up with more models. So that's what I'm hoping the government's gonna do. Because I'm quite sure that we're several people in the civil parties too who want to look at other types of models. What I just think is really important is to find a solution so that, firstly, we ensure free choice of schools and, secondly, free primary schools can continue to take social responsibility, as they already do, but perhaps even more so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150218	I would like to thank you for that message from the Left. I think it would be good if we could reach out to each other and say that it did not necessarily have to be the model that the Left has set up here, where free schools will be made dependent on the municipalities, but that the Left would like to take part in looking at some other models. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150239	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150243	After all, from time to time the Left has attacked the free schools for lack of social responsibility, in other words also in relation to taking in pupils who are having a difficult time, and I could understand from the Socialists that they have also admitted that they have done so. What is the Radical Left's position in this debate? Like the rest of the government, do you think that the free schools have not lifted social responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150315	The radical rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150318	No. We know, of course, that free schools have a strong social responsibility, but unfortunately their image has been damaged by the fact that there are a few private schools which do not, and this has thus affected the whole image of free primary schools. That is why I usually do so when I meet representatives from the free primary schools, that I take hold of them and say that we have to ensure that everyone takes social responsibility, so that a few schools do not do so, no longer harm all the free primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150351	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150354	What kind of schools do not lift social responsibility? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150401	There is a discrepancy between the free schools and the private schools. There are some private schools which do not accept the same social responsibility as free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150416	Then it is Mrs Merete Riisager for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150420	Thank you. First of all, I have just compared with the few evil schools that do not lift a social responsibility if they do exist, namely whether it is a problem. Is it a problem if there are few schools that do not lift social responsibility if social responsibility is lifted? Is it not important that families have the opportunity, and is this proposal therefore not really a good one? Because that gives the families the opportunity to go out and choose another offer. And then I have another question: on the coupling rate: what is the Radical Left going to do in terms of raising the coupling rate? What is the objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150502	After all, that depends on what we can get through in the context of a financial law. We were opposed when, with the Left in the lead, a decision was taken to cut subsidies for free schools. We would like to see it raised, but that depends on what can be done. It depends on a financial law, and I cannot promise that here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150523	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150527	After all, I did not ask what the party could get through with, but what is the policy of the Radical Left. We're going to the Liberal Alliance for a couple rate of 80. What are you looking for at the Radicals? Well, what's the target? If the Radicals were to be able to determine how the coupling rate would be combined, where would it lie? In relation to the few schools, I would like to ask again: what is the problem? If the rapporteur is right in saying that there are a few schools that do not lift social responsibility, what is the problem? Is not the challenge that individual families should have freedom of choice? It's not like every school behaves the same, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150605	The whole idea of having free primary schools is not that the schools should be the same, but that there is precisely the possibility that you can have different pedagogics and that you can have different traditions in your school; that is what the strength is. At the same time, however, I also believe that, as a society, we can expect our schools to assume social responsibility, and a great many of the free schools can do something. Well, they can do something special for this group of students, and that's why they're also interested in having the opportunity to have the students. And that is why I am radically concerned that we need to find a solution that actually works for the free schools, rather than the model that the proposers have put forward here, which will make free schools dependent on the municipalities, because that is a bad solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150651	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319150700	Thank you for that, and thank you very much to the Left for raising the debate here, and also thank you for the Minister's statement, which shows that we are not necessarily so far apart and that I am at least sure that solutions will be found to this. It is the case in Denmark that we actually have very proud school traditions. It is quite special that we have our law on free primary schools and we also have our law on primary school. That is something we must safeguard, which is why we must, of course, also ensure that these are two very independent ways of running schools each with their own strengths. But in common there must be a possible school for all children and that you as parents should be able to choose the school for your child that you in the family think you need. Education is also a constitutional duty, but there is no compulsory schooling. We must also be very careful about this. That is why I also believe that this debate today is quite important, and that is why it is the children who have special needs. We have worked a lot on inclusion in the entire primary school area, we have worked with the hours over and under 9 hours and over and under 12 hours. And in the middle of all this, there are some kids we can see risk getting into a mess. These are the cases where children who are in a free primary school have been pupils there, maybe fall on their bike and suffer a brain damage, and where the school has to find that with the economy of the school it is unable to meet the needs of the child and the family afterwards. That is why, unfortunately, it may have to reject the family. The other cases are children who are searched, who have very special needs, whose school may have to say that, although the family wants a Grundtvig-cold school or another school, it unfortunately does not have the finances to meet the needs of the child. That is for me to see actually what we are discussing today. How can we do this just for families, so that they have the right to choose a school on the basis of the value on which the family is based. So these are value-based schools. With the ratio of 71 adopted, the schools are unequal in relation to the primary school. The problems that may arise and that I mentioned to the families can be dealt with are, of course, the reasons why it is important for us to have this discussion. We have all heard that free schools do not take social responsibility. Then we can say, Who is it that doesn't do it? We all know someone who does it. We have had discussions on the 8th and 9th classes of the post-school schools, which are also schools for children and young people with special needs, and therefore I think it is very gratifying that there is now a bill from the government. I would then perhaps have liked a little more involvement, a little more openness on this a little earlier, because then we could have had a rather more comprehensive discussion of this together with the good intentions that are here. The SF is not included in the motion for a resolution that is being tabled here, and it is not because of cheerfulness. It is simply because we have taken the text seriously. We are in this position so far that we think it is important to investigate. The investigation is under way, so it's kind of kicking in an open door. For SF, it is essential that these discussions always take place in close cooperation with the school associations. As I have read the text, the comments on the proposal, it says that the government will be required to investigate how the municipalities can be committed. There is therefore an intention that this proposal will examine how to commit the municipalities. That's where the fuck out is. So far, funds have been allocated to free schools by the State, and there are also 145 million. kr. from a common pool, and it is the schools that have decided that this is how they would do it. This principle breaks with it, and that's why we can't be in it. On the part of the SF, we say: yes, we support that something should be done; yes, we support that families should be allowed to choose the form of school which they now think is suitable for the family. We say no to full liberalisation. We do not want the money to follow the child and that having a social security number on a child triggers a pool of money, and then you can travel with it to your child. We are not concerned about this, and we are not in favour of imposing what they have to do on municipalities, because then it will also mean that it will be a shell task, and then it will have to be DUT'es, as it is popularly called, and then it is something that has to lie on the Finance Act. So yes, we include, we want to help investigate, but we do not want to break with the principle that has been applied so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151219	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151224	Thank you to the SF rapporteur, also for stressing that the SF would also like to help investigate this and find a solution to it. What I'm wondering about in this whole process that I've been digging in to find out what this is all about is that somehow the money has to be there somewhere. In other words, if a child belongs in a municipality, it should be a little irrelevant, even if it is a child with special needs, whether the parents choose the free school way or the municipal school way. For the municipality, it's still gone the municipality's child. I can well see an opportunity to say in some way: 'Well, for that matter, could you not find a tariff equivalent to having to cover the costs which you can then allow to go to free schools?' What I can tell you is that the Danish Free School Association has calculated for itself what it will typically cost. There you say a little bit about the fact that you expect it to cost about DKK 60,000 on average. for such a child in primary school, and it may even be low set. I would really like to hear the comments of the SF rapporteur on this. Couldn't that be an option, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151335	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151338	Yes, we from the SF are very concerned about doing this in close cooperation with the school associations, and what is obvious is that you know what the cost is, at least for the well-known children, because you have to say that if the free schools close, then the primary school has to take care of those children. But we also know that the economy of the municipalities is very different, depending on the priority given to schools in the municipalities. And that is actually where we put our foot down and say that it should not burden the children who need a special effort, even if they happen to be children in a free school located in a municipality that downgrades or prioritises. That is why we still want it to be a joint statement by the state. As I understand it right now on what the Minister is saying about working with some kind of tariff system, social taximeter, or whatever it should be, I very much welcome it, but the problem is that if we say that municipalities have to change a task from a canoe task to a shell task, then there is a demand for funds to be included, and they do not necessarily benefit the children who go to school. That is why it is becoming a bit of a word war about what is now in the attitude here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151454	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen again for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151457	I have to say that this is perhaps a good example of how a word war can sometimes become an end, including here in the Assembly. So, I have to say that I am of the opinion that I would like to find solutions, and I actually sense that all around here today we are positive and want to find a solution to this. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: the rapporteur says that you are kicking in an already open door, but does the rapporteur think that the draft law coming from the government next week solves this problem, or does the rapporteur think that there is still a need for further investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151547	Now I don't know the bill coming next week. That is also why I called for the Minister to be slightly more sympathetic than is the case. I could say in the same way that it would probably also have been fine if Mrs Anni Matthiesen and I had sat down and looked at it here, one from each side. Then it might be that the text of the remarks might have been a little different. What is crucially important is that we find a solution so that those parents who want their child in a primary school or in a free school should not be rejected because of economics, but should be invited in to meet the needs of the child. Anything that can support it, SF would like to be a part of it. Then it is just before I say: I do not think we need so many more studies. I think we really need action with the school associations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151633	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. I should just like to point out that it is 1 minute on the first question and 1⁄2 minute on the second one. Alex Ahrendtsen in particular, but to the House at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151643	Thank you. I think I'm good at staying within the time. The question is whether Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen does not abandon her constituents. She lives in Kerteminde on Funen. That's where she's been set up. It is not far from Nyborg, and in Nyborg about a third of all schools are free schools. That is why it would be obvious that the rapporteur then agreed to this study, which is very clear, because it also tells us what we are going to examine. When you look into something, you make no commitment but to investigate. You don't undertake to say yes or no. We are committed to becoming wiser, and I assume that the rapporteur would like to be wiser, especially when we consider that in Nyborg there are so many free schools. However, would the rapporteur not agree to this proposal now, since we have all explained that it is only a study? There's one second left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151746	In fact, I think, if I may put it this way, that it is a little nasty to mention how many now go to a free school in Nyborg. There are even more in Faaborg-Midtfyn Municipality, and I am located in Odense, so that's not what this is all about. I do not stand here and do politics for the sake of some special groups either. I'm actually standing here because I'm very preoccupied with the free schools. I have worked with them most of my adult life, and what this text says is that the government is obliged to investigate how the municipalities can be committed. And I simply disagree fundamentally with that. I have also explained how important I think it is for parents to be allowed to choose the school on which they think they fit the value base on which parents have now formed families and which must take care of children. A child must not be rejected because one of the free schools cannot afford because we have a wrong allocation system, and that is what I understand. The Minister has a bill which, as I understand it, has been drawn up together with the associations of free schools. I'll look forward to seeing that. I don't think there's any reason to do an investigation like this. We would not be interested in that by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151852	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151856	We didn't make much progress on that. The second question I would like to ask is something that the rapporteur himself mentioned in his speech. She points out that there are some free and private schools that do not lift social responsibility. I also put that question to Radicals, and I did not get an answer. Now I will try with the SF's rapporteur: which private and free schools do not lift social responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151926	I have not mentioned schools, free schools or private schools that do not lift their social responsibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151930	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Merete Riisager for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319151934	Would the rapporteur not agree with me that it opens up completely new opportunities for a family that has a child with special needs if you make a model where the money follows the child? That means giving the freedom back to the citizen, to the parents that they can make the choice they want for their child • we know our children best. You can sit down and look at which schools are in the area, and when you consider where to place your child, you can consider both the municipal schools and the free primary schools. Would the rapporteur not agree that this would be a qualitative improvement for the families we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152016	No, I don't agree with that. I believe that this is a fundamental breach of the tradition we have of conducting free school and of conducting primary school. So I don't agree that the money should follow the baby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152025	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152028	I understand that the rapporteur does not like the fact that traditions are being broken. I understand that. But is it not an improvement for the family we are talking about here, which has a child with special needs, that they will be able to leave as they can now, to choose the municipal schools where there is an offer, to be able to take the money with them if there is a private school or a free school that is particularly good at meeting the needs of their child? It may be a child who is hearing impaired or has adhd, or whatever it may be. But that they get the freedom of family, that they can take the money to where the offer is best, isn't that an improvement for that family?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152104	Well, the fact that we have free primary schools means that it's value-based schools, it's attitude schools. And I would like you as a family to be able to choose the school that corresponds to the values you have in your family. Of course, the families who have a child with special needs must also be able to meet these different types of school. But it is not the case that free schools specifically set up schools for children with special needs. There are, for example: families who want to have their child in a Grundtvig-cold free school. Then something can happen to this child, or it can be born with challenges of different kinds. Of course, parents must also be allowed to go to the school which they have now chosen. That is why we need to change the allocation model that we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152155	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more brief comments, and the next one is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152204	Thank you. I think this is an interesting resolution, and I think it is because the parties behind the resolution have all voted in favour of unfunded inclusion legislation for primary school pupils. So, the parties behind this motion for a resolution have voted in favour of a legislative proposal to include all pupils in primary school without funding. And now we are making a suggestion that when it comes to free schools, the money must follow the child so that children with special needs can be allowed to attend free school. I cannot quite figure out whether I should call it hypocritical or whether I should interpret it as saying that the right wing in this room has come to the conclusion that children with special needs require a little more finance and require a little extra. Hopefully, it is no surprise that in the Enhedslisten we cannot support this proposal, and we cannot, because we believe that the consequence of the proposal will be that the free schools will actually be given opportunities which the primary school does not have today. And we think in the Enhedslisten that you should solve the problems in primary school first. In addition, it has to be said that this is a bad solution to a rather serious problem. I therefore agree with the rapporteurs behind this motion for a resolution that we have a problem in that the primary schools are not being properly dealt with about children with special needs, but I do not believe that it is the solution to allow the money to follow the individual child. This is individualising the problem in this area, and I think it is a collective problem that we do not have a school system that can take care of children with special needs properly. If the basic idea in this is that there should be economics for inclusion, we in Enhedslisten think that we should start by looking at the primary school and ensuring that the problems are solved where the child is, so that the child should not change school because it is a child with special needs, but so that if you are a child with special needs, you can be at the school where you go ahead without having to change associations etc. etc. I just think that, after this debate, one big, resounding question remains: what will the parties behind this proposal do to make children with special needs feel better in primary school, which is the school that is our common school? Unfortunately, I think that the proposal lacks to give some answers to that. So the Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152510	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152513	Thank you. After all, I am not surprised that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is of course looking at how we should make it even better for primary school, because the Enhedslisten obviously has a tradition that one does not like the free schools. Having said that, I can say that this resolution is about special education, that is to say those pupils who also need, for example. 12 hours or more, and which is typically more expensive to integrate, also in ordinary classes. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur something. Normally, Enhedslisten usually tends to care for some of the weak in society. Here we have a situation where the system we have built up today actually excludes these students from having the same free choice as other students. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152614	The position of the Enhedslisten on this is that we do not believe that this resolution takes care of the weak pupils or the pupils who need extra support or have special needs or what expression we are going to use now. We don't think the solution to this problem is to make it an individual problem that's just about if there's a school that works badly, you just move the baby. We believe that it is a matter of improving the school where the child goes, so that the child should not change his or her associations and should not change his or her frames. Then I would just like to say that this is not the case because we do not like the free schools in the Enhedslisten. That is, for example, the case. not those of us who have led the way in putting savings on the free schools in the recovery package. On the contrary, we voted against the proposal led by Mrs Anni Matthiesen's own party. So I don't think you can blame Enhedslisten for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152709	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152711	As the rapporteur himself has just said, she is not in favour of forcing some pupils to change the framework. But with the way we have built it up right now, you are actually forcing some free schools to say no to a student because they themselves are getting too high a cost. They can sometimes have to find about 130,000 kroner. Even if the year of possibly maintaining one of these pupils with special needs at their school, and the money they have is only possible to find either by raising the parental fee for all pupils, or by taking out more money from the ordinary pupils and giving to these special pupils. I would actually like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152759	As Mrs Anni Matthiesen herself says, free schools have the opportunity to screw some buttons here. Folkeskole can't do that. In the Enhedslisten we are therefore concerned about how to ensure a better primary school and how to ensure a proper economy in primary school before doing so in the free schools. For me, one does not rule out the other. I just want to start with primary school and I want to make sure that we are not making it a family that has a child with a special need, an individual problem, but a problem that we solve as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152834	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152839	Thank you. Sometimes Enhedslisten is a freedom party, sometimes Enhedslisten is a system party. Today, it sounds like Enhedslisten is a system party, and so it is up against the other left-wing parties arguing against this proposal, not because it is bad for these children, for whom we want to do something, or for the families, but because it is bad for the system. I find that extremely regrettable. In other words, is Mrs Rosa Lund not very concerned that children with special needs should have the best possible conditions and that their parents can therefore also make the best choice for the children and bring them to the school where they can get the best possible offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319152930	Well, I would like to reassure Mrs Merete Riisager by saying that the Enhedslisten is a freedom party every day. Every day we work for more freedom. However, unlike Mrs Merete Riisager's party, the Liberal Alliance, we believe in the Enhedslisten that it is the community that is the prerequisite for freedom. Therefore, we in the Enhedslisten believe that we can ensure the best possible conditions for children with special needs by ensuring that there is a good economy in primary school, and by ensuring that as a child with special needs you are not forced to change school because there is another school where they have suffered more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319153010	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319153013	But isn't the family exactly the first community to be born into and presented to? Are the parents not the ones who have the greatest responsibility for the child they now have? Why should the community, so to speak, stand in the way of parents making the best possible choice for that child? That is exactly where Enhedslisten becomes a system party that completely overlooks the individual. And there it is, one can say, that one day it will come that there is a system of thinking within Enhedslisten's right of liberty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319153046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319153049	I really do not think that the community is in the way of anything here. I believe that the problem here is that an inclusion law has been adopted that is unfunded and that makes inclusion in primary school not working. So I really do not think that there is anything, what can be said, community that sets foot for something here. I believe that in here at Christiansborg we have set up too bad a framework for inclusion in primary school. And then I mean, and this is what we mean in the Enhedslisten, unlike Mrs Merete Riisager, unlike the Liberal Alliance, I cannot understand why we should make this an individual problem which can only be solved by moving the child around from one place to another. On the contrary, we believe that there should be equal opportunities for good inclusion in all schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319153137	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319153155	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I am really proud and happy today to stand with this motion for a resolution on which various parties have worked together in the best possible way, because on the bourgeois side we are parties which are quite concerned that all citizens have the best opportunities to make good choices for themselves and for their children. Today, when we have a resolution dealing with children with special conditions, I would say that children's parents must, of course, have the same opportunities for free choice of school as all other parents do. They must be able to choose the best school for their child, whether it is a municipal school or whether it is a free primary school. It is, of course, the case at the free primary schools that some of them also specialize in meeting children with special needs. It can be hearing impaired, it can be children with adhd or other things where you specially find out how to do something for those children. And there is a great opportunity for parents to get the money that is being set aside and there we are not talking about any other money, as Enhedslisten says, but the money that is being devoted to that child and of course take them there at the free primary school that you want to have your child on. It should be quite obvious. Parents are the ones who know their children best, and that is why, of course, the money must also bring the child to where the offer is best. So there must be clarification of the child in the municipality, but the public system must let go of resources so that parents can take them where the offer is best. Now there are slightly different signals coming from the Minister in this area today, but I would say that the keynote, which is of course sceptical about the motion for a resolution, is, unfortunately, not so surprising. We hope, however, that this ends well and that the social concern for these families means that you end up with a good model. You are pleased that the municipality and the state are in control of the school, and thus also of what the parents are doing and what they are doing, and that giving it free and giving power back to the citizens is typically not something that is dear to the social democracy. The charge against free primary schools is often that schools do not show social responsibility. That is not true, because if we look at the socio-economic composition of the free primary schools versus the municipal schools, we will see that the overall difference is quite small. But it is also true that there is an economic difference between parents in choosing between a free primary school and an ordinary primary school. After all, the coupler rate has now fallen to 71 per cent. This government has starved the free primary schools, even though it actually promised to do something else, which means that there are many parents who are not financially able to choose a free primary school, and so it is not possible for parents who have children with special needs to take the money to a free primary school. This means that it is the other children in the class who have to pay for the special needs, so to speak, if a free primary school accepts a child with special needs, and it is of course not a very good situation to put those schools in. In the Liberal Alliance, we are very, very pleased with this proposal, which allows schools already marketed by the municipality to be taken to a free primary school. We think it is absolutely right that families with children with special needs should have these opportunities. We are also concerned with having a general screw-up of the coupling rate, so that you go as far as 80%. If you lie down at 80%, all types of families in Denmark will be able to choose a free primary school, if that is what they want you to choose the school that is best for your children, whether it is one type of school or another, and you could do that by saying to the free primary schools that they should also remember to create more free places, so that families who are in financial difficulties can also have a place in the free school. If one were to make such a model, the free primary schools would be completely accessible to all types of different families. We think this is very good, since all Danish children attend a primary school. We don't really have a tradition of homeschooling in Denmark; all Danish children go to school, which is why all Danish families must of course also have a free choice of school. It is good for children, and therefore it is right to choose freedom rather than system thinking. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319153700	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319153716	Thank you. And let me start by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservatives, because unfortunately they did not have the opportunity to be in this Chamber today, but they also support this motion for a resolution. I can start by saying that I am very proud of this resolution. I am, of course, first of all, because on the bourgeois side we are also united on this motion for a resolution. I would also like to inform the Minister and some of the other rapporteurs that I have been working on this resolution for months. I've been working with, uh... also the Danish Free School Association and the Danish Private School Association about it, and not least I have visited a great many free schools, which have these problems, which have also emerged here in the Parliament Hall today. I can say that I am one of them. visited Løgumkloster Friskole, which is in the situation that today they have a child at school who is in this situation that the school today cannot actually afford to stay at school. Every year, the school has to find about DKK 130,000. to cover the costs of having that child at school. It is, as I also explained in relation to one of the questions I asked, because it is the case today that when you are awarded the 71 per cent. In the case of coupler allowances, the free schools themselves must take part of them into a pool and earmark them for special education. This means removing money from ordinary children and giving to special education children. That is fair enough, you might say, but the problem is a little bit that the greater the social responsibility you take and the more children you take into free schools, the more hollow it becomes as the funds go away from ordinary children, and that means that you really only have the opportunity to raise the amount of parental pay. Then it can have the consequences that there are actually other children who have to choose the free schools from, because the payment gets too high. So even today, free schools take huge social responsibility. There are about 1,500 single integrated pupils in the free schools. They take Yes, then there are some municipalities that choose to help them on their way by sending some money to the children to ensure that they can also continue walking, for example. at the free school and have the free choice of school, but by far, the vast majority of municipalities choose not to send money. What we in the Left are very concerned about is ensuring free choice of school. The free choice of school is simply crucial for the Left, and that is also why we think it is extremely important that we find a solution to this problem. As has also been said earlier, it is in fact written in our constitution that we have free choice of school, and we do not think that this is entirely a matter for people to live up to. It is not in the best interests of the child when a child in need of special education is rejected. It is not in the best interests of the child, for example, that one should. may be forced away from the school that you might otherwise like to go to, and that may, for that matter, best be able to give this kind of special education that that child needs. That is why I have to say that if I am going to find something positive here today too, and I am happy to do so, it is of course the Minister who has also indicated here that an investigation is necessary. It is necessary to find a solution to this problem, and I would like to conclude by thanking the Minister for that. And I can also say that I am quite sure that we will also be happy to take part in meetings with the Minister on these matters. And I am absolutely sure that both the Danish Free School Association and the Danish Private School Association are also ready to provide information and for that matter contribute to how this can be resolved. Finally, of course, I would like to thank my fellow citizens from the other parties for supporting this resolution. I am pleased that we have been able to stand united throughout the bourgeois side. And it can be said, if nothing else, that we can cross our fingers to the effect that if the present government does not implement this as soon as possible, then we are in a situation where we can then hope that there will be a change of government and we will then be able to start this investigation. However, thank you for the debate in this Chamber and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154213	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154218	Thank you again for the debate here today. It has been quite useful. But I need Mrs Anni Matthiesen to confirm what is at the root of what is going to be investigated. This is because one breaks with the principle that I know that the old Højskoleleft and Friskoleleft have always been preoccupied with the fact that it is not a difference between the individual school and the municipality, but that it is simply the state that is helping to distribute these funds on the basis of such a more general principle that it is not a municipal task, but that it is the state with which the agreements are to be made. Is that a proposal for the Left to break with that principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154301	No, the Left will not break with any principles. What has been crucial for us is to get that study done and find a solution. We simply think that it is untenable that there should be no free choice of school, and I think that all parties should be united. One can say that it is written in our constitution and, as it is right now, we are not really living up to it. Where I think it is grotesque is that today we have situations where, in fact, there are municipalities that would be more than happy to send money with the children, because they might also be able to see that otherwise they would have to find another solution, which might be twice as expensive. This means that right now there are many pupils who are in this conflict and are deeply dependent on which municipality they may just live in, or, for that matter, are almost dependent on whether their school leader in the free school is good at negotiating with the municipality concerned and thus ensuring the child's free choice of school.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154355	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154359	However, what this study here will suggest, if it finds out, is that you break with the principle that the municipalities are autonomous bodies and that is then a principle that you break with. I am not going to say that it is not possible, and it could also be that it would be a very good idea for these children, whom it is going to hurt. I also know very well the story from Løgumkloster and all the other schools. But I simply need to know from Mrs Anni Matthiesen herself whether Mrs Anni Matthiesen does not see that there is a clear difference between what she is saying here and what is the intention of the Liberal Alliance, namely that there is a completely free liberalised market in the school sector in Denmark. Is that what the Left wants, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154445	I do not think it is as far in relation to what Mrs Merete Riisager has said here today. I actually think that together we have a job to do this. And then I have to say that the free choice is what we put in the top priority. We also enjoy the freedom of the municipalities, but it is grotesque that you should end up in this situation, both as a parent and as a student, that there may be some municipalities that think it is a good idea to send money with and that there are other municipalities that think it is a bad idea. Well, that makes it the student who's gonna be the loser. I would say that in the Left we pay tribute to man, after all, above the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154522	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has been asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154539	The debate is open. The first rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Kim Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319154615	Yes, President, it's a long title that's on that bill. In the Left, we are concerned about creating the best possible framework conditions for companies. Like other parties in here, we are very concerned about ensuring the best possible competitiveness for Danish industry, so that we can ensure that we have maximum added value in this country and the best conditions for creating and maintaining jobs here in Denmark. For this purpose, we have concluded a number of agreements with the current government over the years, and last summer we also concluded an agreement, namely the so-called growth package of June, in which the Left was part of, and such a package, such an agreement, provides a number of subsequent tasks for the ministries involved and the participating parties. With this agenda item, we have now reached the point of having to deal with paragraph 52 of the June 2014 growth package in terms of legislation. When you make such an agreement, as the number of this part says, has a great many elements in it, it actually also says that there is something more important than anything else that takes up more than anything else. The draft law here, L 153, involves a great many laws, which means that there must be changes in a great deal of legislation. This need not mean that it has the same significance for competitiveness and job creation, but we are in a situation where we have to take everything with us and recognise the old saying that many streams of small runs a large stream. That is why, of course, L 153 also has its place in the context. The main aim of the draft law is to implement three elements of the growth package agreement of June last year. These are the abolition of the system of appointing dissachers, the abolition of the system of appointing translators and interpreters and the abolition of the maximum price regulation in connection with the preparation of state and electrical installation reports in the household inspection system. At the same time, it is proposed that the closure law be amended so that in future it will be possible to obtain exemptions for retail sales on public holidays and at smaller local events around the country. In addition, it is proposed to amend the provisions of seafarers' employment conditions so that the large parts of the ILO Convention on the Working Conditions of Seafarers, which are not already included in Danish law, can now be so. Last but not least, it is proposed to abolish the annual municipal report on economic activity. First of all, I would like to say that we in the Left, like other parties, have, of course, had many conversations and inquiries from various interpreters and various organisations dealing with translators and interpreters. There has been criticism and there has been opposition to the intention of the draft law to abolish the appointment system. We have brought it before the Minister and we have discussed the criticisms made. We have also had a meeting in the circle of parties to the agreement, and we must, of course, listen and we must act forward and long-term. I am therefore also pleased that the Minister has taken the initiative in this regard to extend and qualify the international quality standard in this area. This means that translators and translators will be able to use the European standard of quality, EN15038, which is common internationally and which sets out a number of specific requirements that need to be met in order to achieve this standardisation, which the Danish Standard has also agreed to promote for these players. I believe that it would be beneficial for some of the interpreters and translators. It'll be a contemporary blue stamp. It will be a certification which is not only a Danish phenomenon, but can also be used in a foreign context and in an international perspective. And that would make sense. This will help to ensure the Danish interpreters and translators an international standard and signal quality and signal that they are living up to a modern measurement and approval process. The corresponding quality assurance is not in the current system for translators and interpreters. At the same time, we have also told the Minister that we support this approach, and if there are other things in the course of the committee's work to which the Minister might respond, we are certainly sensitive to it. The other things about seafarers and about the housekeeping system and the liberalisation of the closure law are common sense, and we can support that on the part of the Left. And I should then like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur, who cannot be present, and say that the Conservatives agree with the views I have put forward here and will therefore also be positive in the committee procedure of L 153. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155255	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155301	It is a good thing, after all, that the Left has read the answers to the hearings, I can hear and have considered it, but I still think it is fantastic when virtually all the hearings say that it is a really bad idea to abolish the translater figure. Danish Industry says so, and the Danish Shipowners' Association says so. These are some of the associations that the Left normally leans on. I wonder if it is not also some of the associations that finance a large part of the Left election campaign. Nevertheless, they choose to ignore it and support the removal of the translator system, as we know it today, and the appointment that is today, despite all the warnings, will be removed from the lawyers as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155400	I therefore have to plead with the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. Sir. Frank Aaen says that the Left leans against a wide range of organizations, which he then mentions. I must reject that. I must state quite clearly that the Left is not leaning against anyone at all. We're standing by ourselves. The fact that there are a whole lot of others who think that the way we stand and go is so reasonable that they follow us, of course, we are only happy and satisfied with. With regard to this proposal for a directive, I have to admit that there has been a great deal of discussion and many views on one element of this cooked pot, the bill being expressed, and we have listened, and we have read, and that is also why I very much acknowledge that the Ministry and the Minister have taken note of the views and arguments and have now taken the lead in achieving a European standard for these industries, this profession, which I think is more forward-looking and in fact provides a better framework for translators and translators to operate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155511	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155513	Now we all know that there were more than 100 proposals in this growth plan, and some of the proposals are being acted on by more than no time, and if it turns out that the outside world is so opposed to a proposal, perhaps we should think a little more about it. After all, the Minister has also said that the creation of a new certification system is not a matter of concern, and it would of course also be a little strange to abolish one in order to introduce a new one. There is logic in that, but that means that in future everyone can call themselves translators without having any certainty about the quality of the work they are doing. I do not understand why the Left supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155552	Now, of course, we do not know what the work of the Minister and the Danish Standard has taken the lead here, specifically. I am sure that this will be a result that ensures the quality of the translators and the interests they have. What has been used of time and how it has happened maybe I think the questioner should be too judging, because one thing at least is quite certain, and that is that Enhedslisten was not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155620	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next speaker is Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319155630	Thank you. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats' business rapporteur has no opportunity to be here today, so I am the one who is reading the rapporteur's speech. The purpose of the bill is to implement elements of the summer agreement on a growth package. The aim of abolishing appointing systems for dissachers, translators and interpreters is to remove the barriers that are too healthy competition so that competition can benefit consumers and businesses. These are the barriers to trade. Now we are opening up more free access for new players to increase competition. It should be noted in this connection that the Ministry of Business and Growth has listened to the debate that has really been going on about the abolition. The Ministry will take the initiative to disseminate and qualify the European quality standard in the field of translation so that it can be used to a greater extent to ensure quality in translation services. And for the record, I will not fail to stress that the quality of translations lies not in the appointment itself, but in the relevant education and experience. Another point is the amendment of the law on consumer protection for the acquisition of immovable property, etc. There we ensure that there will no longer be an upper limit on remuneration for the preparation of state and electrical installation reports under the household inspection scheme. The aim of the abolition is to ensure lower prices for consumers. In fact, the maximum price has been standard-setting in such a way that in some cases consumers pay overpriced for state reports. It is expected that the providers of state-of-the-art reports will compete on price, so that with this abolition we ensure that lower prices will come to consumers. Then there is also some change in the closure law. With the amendment of the retail selling law from shops etc. there is a relaxation of the current exemption provision so that retail sales can be authorised even at small local events. The aim is to ensure increased economic activity also in smaller communities in connection with festivals, city parties and other events taking place on Sundays and public holidays. At such events tourists and guests will be met with closed shop doors if we do not implement this relaxation. Then we have a change to the maritime employment clause. Offshore activity is growing rapidly, and new types of employment are also emerging. Danish legislation must follow the development and ensure good conditions for employees and good conditions of competition for shipping companies. With the amendment of the Law on seafarers' employment conditions, large parts of the ILO Convention on the Working Conditions of Seafarers are implemented, which is not already part of Danish legislation. The amendment of the law and the follow-up to the Order will mean that certain categories of persons carrying out tasks on board ships without being seafarers will be granted rights under the Law on seafarers' employment relationships. Only parts of the law will apply to persons who do not have a function relating to the actual operation of the ship and who are already protected at an equivalent level by their employment conditions on land. In conclusion, I can say briefly and clearly that the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319160019	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and then the next speaker comes along, and this is Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319160031	After all, the rapporteurs from the Social Democrats and the Left have told us that this is a legislative proposal that has come up in the context of a joint growth agreement concluded between most of the parties of the Danish Parliament back in June 2014, and it is also a legislative proposal that the Danish People's Party as a whole is included in, and of course we also support the various elements that are in it. But the fact that you support a bill does not mean that you think that everything in the bill is really good. Because it is true, as has been said, that there has been a great deal of discussion about the part of the draft law which deals with the repeal of the law on translators and interpreters and also the repeal of the law on dissachers, and both of them, of course, lead me to think that some concrete factual questions can be raised, which I also think we should address in connection with both the second and third readings here in the Folketing and, of course, in connection with the work of the committee. Because there are some of these elements that seem a little weird, you might say, and I also think that if you look at the various consultation answers that have come, you have to say that this particular part of the law is very special, given that all parties think that what we are doing here is a bad idea. However, I do recognise that an agreement is an agreement and that, of course, we also have to bear the brunt of the agreements made six months ago in this Parliament. But I also believe that we, as political parties, should take the criticism to heart and that we should also ensure that, in the process that is now coming, we will also ensure that we keep an eye on what will happen, among other things. with this European quality standard, which we are then trying to make even better visible, in view of the fact that the various players in the area must have the opportunity to use it as a form of quality stamp and also as a form of marketing of their products. But that is basically a problem, I think that both the employer side and those sitting on the other side of the table are all agreed that this part of the bill is unfavorable for Danish competitiveness. Indeed, only last night, as rapporteurs on the proposal, we also received a number of comments, among others. from Danish Industry, which also expresses great concern about it in relation to their members. So I think we should take the criticism to heart and I think we should also try to include it in the work of the committee which, after all, must now come to the third reading. The draft law also contains other elements which I think are very sensible, among others. the law on retail sales from shops, where we now have the opportunity to make a more flexible derogation model, so that on special, selected days you can have open in these shops without having to run the huge bureaucracy in place. I still remember when we had Giro d'Italia, which opened from Herning, where Mr. Ole Sohn had to call all the business rapporteurs to ask if it was okay for them to stay open in the shoe shops in Herning. And, of course, I didn't have any trouble with it. But with this bill, we will certainly have an opportunity to keep these shops in the retail trade more easily open in these specific cases, including on these holidays. Then there is the proposal for a law on consumer protection in the acquisition of real estate. Nor is it one of the parts of the overall growth agreement that has grown in the Danish People's Party's Gardens, I should like to say that this is the abolition of maximum prices in the housekeeping system. In fact, we believe that with the removal of this maximum price, there is a greater risk that prices will be higher than they are today. I know very well that there is free market competition and that there are several different engineering companies that would like to do these house inspections, but that does not change the fact that, when you remove a maximum price, there is also a risk that prices will be higher than the current maximum price. But that is part of the growth agreement, and we are, of course, also on the premise that when we get some things through in a joint growth agreement, we must also support the overall initiatives that have also come from other parties here in the Folketing. Then there is the proposal for municipalities and regions to carry out tasks for other authorities with regard to the abolition of a number of reporting obligations in relation to municipalities and regions and their participation in different company formations, and we in the Danish People's Party think that it is common sense to get rid of bureaucracy in this area. So, overall, this is a bill on which we are conciliation partners, and we welcome the overall bill. However, we also believe that the critical light should continue to be given to the future of the translator sector and to see whether this is the right model. And there, of course, I hope that the participation of the other parties will focus on the part of the criticism that has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319160602	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Ida Auken as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319160608	Thank you. Nowadays, we are implementing various measures which go in a slightly different direction, but which are also part of a global growth package, and a few other things in addition, so it is quite a collective law that we have today. Among other things: We are abolishing the system of appointing translators and dissachers, which I understand we have three of in Denmark. It is perhaps just as much to have a regulated profession as there are three people in Denmark who have. Then we remove the maximum prices for electrical installation and state reports, and of course it may sound like you're getting much higher prices, but the idea is actually that it should give lower prices, because when there's a maximum price, it's very often the one you're going to take out there. So instead of having been a maximum price, it's almost become such a little a minimum price, and that's not so clever. So we think it would be cheaper to remove these maximum prices for electrical installation and state reports. It is all part of the growth package that we have made with the Left, Conservative, Danish People's Party and SF. In addition, we amend the closing law and extend the possibility of keeping open on public holidays in connection with smaller local events; there is already a small derogation, but it has been difficult to get. We think it makes very good sense that if you have an event in your local area, there is also the possibility that shops can keep open occasionally. So the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319160741	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319160748	Thank you. To those who may keep up here, I would like to say that I do not think I should repeat what it contains, but really only say that basically this is something of a simplification of rules, and then we always run into the problem that usually simplifications give, that it can be seen a little as if we cut a toe and cut a heel in different places, and that is probably what people around and especially in the translater area are experiencing. We support these simplifications, but I would like to say, in relation to the discussion that has taken place, that it has made the impression that so many and so diverse stakeholders have said that it was not really such a good idea to repeal the scheme. That is also why, like other parties, the SF has been concerned about whether we could ensure quality and uniformity at the same time as more competition, and if we could do the three things at the same time, we would be able to come up with something that would either be as good or perhaps better. I think we have to face up to the fact that the system we have had has not formally been a quality system, but has probably been experienced as such and as a culture. That is why, like the rapporteur on behalf of the Left, I call on the Minister to ensure that we see the work on creating this quality standard as extremely important, so that we get it implemented and carried forward, so that we have more certainty than we have today, for example, about. level of education. In fact, if we achieve something sensible here, we can have greater security for those who use translators, and thus also good protection for those who work as a translator.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319161009	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319161016	I don't need that much time. This is part of the agreement on the growth plan, where I think there were 111 elements, if I do not remember completely wrong at least over 100 and where Enhedslisten took part in negotiations on quite a lot of them and also ended up supporting a nice portion. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Kim Andersen, that we were in much of what we supported the things we thought were sensible, but then there was this part that we are discussing today that we did not think was sensible and therefore opposed and will therefore also oppose it today and in the final vote. It will, of course, be adopted because it is supported by a majority of Social Democrats, Radicals, Liberals, Danish People's Party, SF, Conservatives. It was the Enhedslisten who went against it, and so do we today, and I understand that the Liberal Alliance was also against it here with the translators. And that, of course, is what is most important in our argument, that is to say, we are opposed to abolishing the authorisation that lies in giving people a protected title called translator. I understand from the debate, from what has been said and from some of the answers to the questions that it may not be considered that the quality approval of Translater Training is good enough. Then I just think it should be improved. It is certainly not a good idea to abolish the authorisation in the case of translators and make it a free title in which everyone can call themselves translators. I really think that's a really bad way to deal with this. If it is the case that you want another quality assurance, it must also be a certification of a kind, because that is what we need, in other words that we have a certification where we can be sure that the translation provided is okay. I think that this issue is unanswered and I still think it is important. That is also what emerges, because I cannot even remember seeing a proposal in the Folketing with such broad political support from the Social Democratic Party and the SF, but which encounters so much opposition from those who work in the area and from those who need the work that is being done in the area. So it is all the parties in this that say that it is a really bad idea to abolish the translator system. It's Danish Industry, the Danish Shipowners' Association, it's Danish Lawyers. These are not any of our usual friends, I would say, as we stand here and are friends with in this matter. Danish Occupation is a bit lukewarm, yes, it is a good idea, but when it comes to the matter, as far as I can see, they are also opposed to the fact that you do not have some kind of clear certification in this area. I am not going to be wise about this, but I just want to say that no one is going to support this proposal except the parties that have agreed on it. There is no one else who supports it, and I think we ought to think about that anyway. In any case, we will make an amendment to allow us to vote on it and not just implement that part of the proposal in this Chamber. There are also a few other elements that I would like to mention briefly, and that is one of them. the further relaxation of the closure law. I must say that the day after I was elected to parliament, I was called by the Ekstra Bladet, who asked what I thought of the closure law. It was a September morning when I had been out a little late because we had celebrated that we had come to parliament. I remember it pretty clearly. I didn't really know what to say, but paddled through and said that we were against a relaxation of the closure law. We have been all the other times, the closure law has been dealt with here in the Folketing, because we think it is bad for employees that they do not have reasonably reasonable pay and working conditions in this case. In fact, I did not think it would be possible to relax the closure law anymore, but it has been possible to find a little extra relaxation. HK Trade is against that, and we fully support them in that. I have also seen that the Bishop of Viborg Stift is opposed, and again it is a friend we do not normally count among our friends. However, we know that we are in the minority compared to most of those who have given a hearing response. To the maximum price for state reports, I would say that we also think it is a bad idea to replace it. At all, it's a bad thing. When you say that people should have such a case, a report, and then believe that competition ensures that you get it at a low price, all experience shows that things are not going very well. So I shall also vote against that part of the proposal. So we are voting against all the elements and the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319161516	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319161522	Thank you so much. Then came the day when the Enhedslisten was allied with Mærsk and the National Church. Who would have thought that? I think that Mr. Frank Aaen said we were against this bill. We're not, we're in favour of this bill, which, among other things, is... provides for further liberalisation of the closure law. Now we think that it might as well be done away with completely what is left of it, but one takes a tiny step towards that here, and we can support that. The bill also abolishes the maximum price regulation for the preparation of state reports and electrical installation reports. In our view, price controls are always a bad idea, which leads to less competition and, as other rapporteurs have also pointed out, this often means that market players put their prices right around the maximum price. The bill also abolishes the appointing system and the licensing system for dissachers and translators. We can support that too. Authorization schemes often help to restrict access to a market, so there must be some very, very serious reasons for having such arrangements. And to abolish them is also in line with the recommendations made by the Productivity Commission, and we think it is important that so many of the proposals made by the Productivity Commission are implemented. In many areas things are going well in Denmark, but we have a challenge that is about productivity and thus prosperity, and it is a challenge that we think is very important for the Folketing to take on. Perhaps it is not the same as the abolition of these schemes that so booster productivity in Denmark quite wildly, but it is a small step in the right direction. As I said, we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319161741	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur
ParlaMint-DK_20150319161748	The Conservative People's Party was a participant in the government's growth agreement from last summer, which has meant a tiny bit more competition and has also created a basis for us to have a little more growth in Danish society after all. We agree with the main elements of the proposal: both the abolition of the maximum price regulation in connection with the preparation of electricity installation reports, and also, and there I think the Minister is showing great flexibility and willingness, a little more flexibility in connection with the closure law; that is to say, if a provincial town, a town of purchase, has a special event, it will be possible to keep open; that, if there are a lot of people coming to the town of purchase x, it will be possible to open their shops both to sell something, but also to point out that it is therefore a good city to act in. So we think we should congratulate the Minister for having included in the proposal here. Then there is what everyone has had as the focal point, namely the whole debate on the translators. First of all, of course, we stand by the agreement that has been reached with the government, but one can always become wiser. Again: we are voting in favour of the proposal; but on the basis of the statements that have been made, on the basis of the dialogue that has taken place, and on the basis of the way in which it has been rolled up, what consequences it will have for the entire translator sector, so that it will not be easier, but more difficult, that it will not be cheaper, but more expensive, the Conservative People's Party thinks that we should consider together again whether this is the right way to liberalise this area. It can be made smarter, it can be done better • there is no doubt about that at all. It may well be that it is a relic of a past time that one has, so to speak, a licence as a translator, which means that there is no fair and free competition. We would like that very much. But if it becomes too difficult for companies to use the translators, if it becomes much more expensive and more difficult, then we have won nothing about it. Well, the point of that should be that on the bottom line it should be easier, more uncomplicated and cheaper to get a translator into an authorized translation. In general, I am opposed to some specific professional groups having a monopoly on certain types of tasks. In this case, I just think that all the arguments we have heard from virtually everyone without exception that are in touch with this show that it is becoming more complicated and more expensive and administratively more difficult. Then it may be that we have not made this very right agreement politically; then it may be that we have not been smarter than the people who sit out there working with it every day. My comment from up here will be that we are, of course, standing by the agreement that exists, and we are also standing by the agreement that was made last June that we will certainly help to consider whether we should look at that particular part about the translators once more to see if we have done it quite right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162117	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162121	I would like to start by thanking you for the receipt of the bill and for the broad and broad support for implementing part of the growth package that a broad majority of the Danish Parliament adopted last year. It is the case, in order to boost productivity and increase competition on the domestic market and elsewhere, that I hear that almost all parties are less Enhedslisten; otherwise I will be fair in favour of free competition and believe that this is the right way to increase productivity as well. But there's also a tendency that every time we get close to this thing with free competition, it's right in the area where we have to go and look at it about everything from electrical installers to something else... not so suitable, but in principle it's really good. And it's becoming a habit. Whatever proposal we're trying to drive through, it's actually really good with the competition, except right here. And that is also the reception we have received in relation to the part that is mainly about translators. I sat down with an open mind and looked at whether there was anything about the case, or whether there was nothing about the case when you started discussing this. But when we go into the matter of it, it is actually the case that you can get such a title by having a certain training and submitting your criminal record and a copy of your health insurance card, and then there is really no one who then checks how to use that title. But then you make sure that there are others who do not enter the market. And that is not to be regarded as a quality assurance of the interpreting and translator business. I simply do not believe that it is reasonable to say so. However, one might think that this is a technical obstacle to the entry of other players into the market, and that is why we are firmly committed to abolishing it. Then there has been a concern and I think it is fair to see whether we are now sure that it will be done in a quality-wise manner. And there we have been sensitive, also to all the answers that have been given, and also to the parties of the Folketing with which we have discussed the matter. After all, we have found a constructive way to find a way to use the standard that already exists which ensures quality, so that we can cover ourselves in this way in relation to the concerns that have been raised. And I would like to thank Parliament's parties for their constructive contribution. So thank you for the broad support in this regard. I am not going to mention all the elements in the draft law that are broad and unifying but only one thing as an example of how good and sensible it is to be able to work together in the Folketing. At one point I was approached by the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, about a concrete example where there was a city that wanted to organize an event, but then ran into the fact that the closure law had banned opening just on some holidays. Through good and constructive cooperation, we have now come so far that we are now putting forward legislative proposals on this and amending it. And I think that is a sensible and good way of working. The fact that this also gives rise to a debate and I am glad that once again the Enhedslisten can be allowed to vote against the closure law is always something. And there is more left, so who knows it may be that Enhedslisten will have the opportunity to vote against and oppose the closure law again in future too, and that offers so unparalleled opportunities, I understand, for new alliances to form with everything from bishops to Danish business. So it's just grabbing the chance now that we're creating the opportunity for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162553	That's it. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162558	First of all to a small statement by the Minister: we have not voted against the closure law at any time; we have voted against all the tendencies to lift that is probably a little more precise to express it. I would like to say that, as we have mentioned in the debate, all the responses to the consultation are, to a slightly different degree, but in fact critical of the removal of the transparency system. And then I do not really know whether the Minister has been at the same first reading as I have, because as I have heard from the debate that has taken place, only the governing parties have given a favourable opinion on this matter. Other parties have said that they will vote in favour of the bill. They have agreed that they will do so, but they have all expressed their criticism of that particular element. Should the Minister not reflect a little more on the fact that all those who are now going to vote this through for the government really all think it is a half-bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162709	I would now say that I have listened very carefully to what has been said here from the platform and that the concern that has been reflected in the answers to the hearings, which has also reflected itself in relation to the conciliation circle, to ensure quality, has been the focal point of the criticism that has been made. And that is what I tried to address in my speech, namely to say that we have been so sure of this by taking the step of ensuring quality together. That, I think, is also a good and constructive way of working. So in this way I actually think that you are covered in relation to it, but I am quite sure and glad that so large and broad a majority in the Folketing supports it. And if it seems as if the Minister is more firm and upright in his back in favour of competition and other things, I would say that I have no objection to that. I'd like to take the lead, too, in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162807	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162809	I would not rule out the fact that some of what we have heard from other parties is more of an opportunism than the fact that something has been done to correct this mistake. I will not rule that out. But that is the reality. Will there be an amendment seeking to take account of the criticisms that have been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162829	I think we have written in the comments what we are working on, so we do not have any amendments to that. However, we are in a constructive dialogue, including in the conciliation circle. It has one common objective, and that is to ensure that there is, of course, a high standard. However, we also have a common objective of ensuring proper competition. After all, we have been in dialogue with people who are today well-functioning interpreters and translators, but just cannot get the title. And it is incredibly regrettable that you are sitting and having such a blockage, but we can now get some more into the market so that we can have increased competition. This is very good for the companies, and it is also very good for the people who have to be employed, so that there might be even more people out there. So all in all, I think there is only something positive to say about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162915	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319162937	The debate is open. It's sir. Kim Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319163008	It is a large, technical and, let me say, dry bill that we now have to deal with. It's all good from the sea, you might say. L 154 concerns the right to a so-called basic deposit account, the implementation of amendments to the Transparency Directive, the modernisation of rules for the submission of annual reports, the extension of the operation of other business by insurance companies, clarification of the regulation of refinancing risk for mortgage bonds, etc. the implementation, inter alia, of: the housing credit directive and, as I said, the transparency directive. There are a large number of sub-items in this context. It will take far too long to try to get into the detail of this at first reading. One thing, however, I would like to mention. This is the possibility proposed by the bill in relation to the fact that the Growth Fund must be able to invest in companies in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. I would like to highlight this as something that I regard as very positive, as an innovation in the relationship between the Kingdom and the Faroe Islands, and which I believe could also mean something for a number of specific companies in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, thereby helping to create added value and employment in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I think that is very positive. Otherwise, the main intention and the effects of the legislative proposal are that, in its implementation, it will help to facilitate the possibility of raising capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. This will lead to improvements in infrastructure which promote economic development. As I said, consumers will be entitled to a so-called basic deposit account for a very small amount. There will be simplification and modernisation of a number of rules for the benefit of the public sector, but also for business and consumers. There will be greater clarity about the conditions for the sale of bonds and this can lead to greater demand. There will be harmonisation of EU rules that ensure a level playing field across EU Member States, and this should lead to increased growth and renewal of competition conditions here. And so, as mentioned, the new funding opportunities for companies in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. That is good and sensible, and we are positive about the proposal and will work constructively with it in committee. And then I just have to finish with a little sigh and say that it might be that we were about to have a little break for the detailed regulation in the financial field. I think that around where you have to implement these things, you're getting a little short of breath over the speed with which it's going at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319163334	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Karin Gaardsted as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319163342	Thank you. I also put forward this bill on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament's business rapporteur, Thomas Jensen. Today's bill is one of those things, which can indeed be called everything good from the sea, as Mr. Kim Andersen mentioned just now, yet all the elements have in common that they enhance consumer rights and conditions and also increase the transparency of companies for the public. Consumer protection and transparency are key principles when we want to develop a well-functioning financial market where citizens can have secure access to advice and credit when they want to invest in their housing or feel secure, by their insurance companies investing their money in the best possible way and with maximum return. At the same time, we must identify and reduce unnecessary burdens for businesses so that they can operate in the most efficient way without unnecessary costs. These objectives form the basis of this draft law, among others. I believe in particular that there are four elements in the draft law that deserve our attention. The first is the part about the ability of insurance companies to invest in infrastructure. The companies are obliged to the policyholders to make long-term investments with the highest possible return. The insurance companies have a particular interest in precisely such investments, because they have exactly the time horizon required by the companies. At the same time, we believe that investment in infrastructure is for the common good of society, both because a well-functioning infrastructure increases efficiency, but also because investment in infrastructure is a way of promoting economic development in a particular area. The second point that needs to be highlighted is the amendment of the transparency directive. As the name indicates, these are amendments to an EU directive designed to ensure greater transparency in trade in, among other things: securities. The amendments consist, inter alia, of: to lift the requirement for the publication of a period notice by share issuers during the two half-yearly periods of a financial year, also to extend the deadline for the publication of half-yearly reports and to extend the range of financial instruments in which flagging is compulsory, and not least the possibility for the FSA to publish sanctions against natural persons and not just legal persons as in the past. These measures include: to reduce the burden on companies, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, and to ensure knowledge of the ownership structure of listed companies. The third element of the bill is the introduction of supervision of residential creditors. The aim is to increase consumer safety. Creditors are required to provide borrowers with a number of information before the credit agreement is concluded. In addition, the consumer must undergo a credit rating and a mortgage may then be offered only if the consumer is judged to be creditworthy. The fourth element, which should also be emphasised, is the right to have a basic deposit account. The account provides at least access to the most basic features typically needed in everyday life, such as access to a Easy Account, to deposit and withdraw cash and to have a debit or debit card. In the past, it has not been a legal requirement to have a credit card attached to it. The basic deposit account may have a maximum charge of DKK 180. a year to ensure that the costs are within the economic scope of all customers. As I said, L 154 contains an even longer range of measures that increase consumer rights and security, as well as society's ability to keep an eye on financial companies than those I have mentioned here. It is essential for an efficient and functional society that business is given the best opportunities for growth, while at the same time protecting consumers from abuse. In this way, we will best ensure a stable economy with opportunities for continued growth, and on that basis I should like to say that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319163823	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319163830	It may well be that the Social Democrats' rapporteur and the Left's rapporteur believe that this bill is all good from the sea, but I would now say that there is a certain amount of filthy fish in the catch rushes, at least in this case, because there are some of these elements in this bill that are not very positive for Denmark. The two rapporteurs before me have already mentioned this in relation to a basic deposit account, and of course we share that in the Danish People's Party. It is a very good idea to ensure that people can have a basic deposit account, but we also think it should be a free deposit account. 15 kroner. Not much money, I'd like to admit it, but it's a bad thing. For example, there is legislation. on the part of the Danish Parliament that people should be involved in the digitalisation process. we have to be in it with an e-Boks, and we have to be all sorts of strange places, we have to act electronically and then you come after and say that it is actually okay that there is a fee payment on something where it is a legal requirement. We in the Danish People's Party think this is simply wrong. With all due respect, 15 kroner. a month is not a lot of money, but that is why we also think it must be possible to make a model where it is of course free of charge and where as a consumer you are not forced to subscribe because you have to comply with Danish legislation. So we think we should continue to work on the proposal, but we would like it to be on the premise that what the draft law says will either be a free model or it will be with a very small fee. Well, why the two-part approach to that? Why not just say that the political discussion is closed by being a free-of-charge model? Then there is a question of some clarification of the interest rate triggers that exist, particularly in relation to the short-term mortgage loans and flex loans, which are, of course, some changes that came in relation to the bill we received last year here in the Folketing in order to minimise the risk of refinancing mortgage loans. Of course we share this in the Danish People's Party; it is fine to have these things clarified in the legislation in connection with the implementation of the interest rate trigger. Then there is the matter of the two different directives, the transparency directive and the EU's housing credit directive, which we do not support in the Danish People's Party, I should like to say. We do not think that the European Union should interfere in the way in which we carry out our part of these things with mortgage supervision and the management of it in Denmark. We think that the Danish rules are fine as they are, and we should not make supranational agreements about that. For example: I received a request from someone who offers mortgages in parts of Denmark where it is difficult to obtain a mortgage. I was called by someone from Bogø who has granted loans to 50 different residential businesses. Everything is recorded as it should, it can go through an accountant, and it can go through a lawyer, and it gets collusion and so on, but yet with this bill we are helping to sanction the people in Denmark who are trying to want to deal with pledges. It is therefore not easy to overburden them with even more detailed requirements, which in themselves are useless and which will not bring any improvement, even in relation to the borrowers who may be on the pledges in question. I just think it is fantastic that there are some people in Denmark who want to borrow money for the refinancing of real estate in our rural areas at all, when we see that we in Denmark are practically sluggish because we have many places where the mortgage sector will not go in with the same investment desire. So I do think that this legislative proposal sets out a number of healthy initiatives, a number of healthy ways of financing, and I do not think that the European Union should go in and interfere with it with these two different directives. Then there is it with regard to insurance companies, which must have increased powers in terms of being able to project, execute, build, own and operate property and infrastructure here in Denmark, and that is what we think is very sensible. But there's a lot of different things in this bill. I also think that, as some people have said, everything is good from the sea, but there are also some of these things that are not very edible, even if you like fish dishes. So we cannot support the bill as it stands at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319164335	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Ida Auken as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319164339	It is true that we are faced with a large-scale legislative proposal with many different things in it. One of the things that I very much welcome and which Radicals very much welcome is that we now ensure that everyone can have a basic deposit account, that is to say that everyone can have an account where they have the right to deposit and withdraw cash and where they have the right to obtain some kind of cash card. It can be used as a Easy Account with a maximum fee of DKK 15. a month. We actually think this is a really, really good place to end this long discussion we have had that there were simply people who could practically not get an account in Denmark. And that was quite unreasonable. So we think it's really good that we put this in that bill. Then there is a clarification of the interest rate trigger, and that is a more technical clarification that comes in the direction of what was originally the law's intention, namely to protect borrowers from excessive interest rate increases. There is the Housing Credit Directive, which ensures that all intermediaries of loans have to comply with good practice, that all creditors come under FSA, that there are new rules for employees to avoid conflicts of interest, and then there are amendments to the Transparency Directive, where, among other things, we have. facilitates administrative burdens and ensures more transparency, including: by the fact that the FSA must publish injunctions and charges against not only legal persons but also natural persons. So there is a certain risk of being hanged out if you do not behave properly, and that often also contributes to transparency. So all in all, radicals can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319164526	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319164533	Thank you. I am very pleased that we can get into a situation where we can say goodbye to a situation where people cannot get a deposit account. So, of course, I see this as a step forward, although I agree with the principle that it should actually be free. But I think that this proposal is a sensible one, and the government has chosen to follow the recommendation of the committee that has been sitting and proposing it. But if we could agree along the way that it would actually be free, we would certainly be happy about it. I think it is worth considering in principle that it was free of charge. I agree that it is not the amount of money that will be a problem here, but it is more of a principle. Then I would also like to focus on the ability of insurance companies to own and operate infrastructure projects, and, incidentally, I can only see that there are improvements with this proposal and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319164656	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319164700	I shall confine myself to dealing with one thing, namely that of having a basic deposit account, because this is actually a subject that I have been working on for a number of years now, and I have also had business ministers or ministers of business and growth in the past, and what they have been called through the ages, in consultation that, of course, one should have the right to be paid out, for example. from the public sector, but also from other sources, without paying for it. We are very pleased that it is now being confirmed that this is the case, that is to say that people can have a deposit account and that, of course, they can also have the opportunity to withdraw money from it, otherwise it is worth nothing. But we still think it's a big problem that you can't be sure to get it for free. I believe that because when the government has to pay out money, pensions, early retirement, cash benefits, everything else, you have to have an account, and in general you cannot operate in this society without an account. When it is so basic for a person to have an account, it should also be free, and then it should be a service that was provided. Frankly, it is not a problem for the banks to be charged that this service should just be free, but they are shoveling money home on fees and everything else from the citizens of this country in general. So you can say that to the banks, and I understand that the Minister is allowed to do so, and the Minister must correct me if that is not correct. But what is being proposed is, of course, very much a mandate. Therefore, I would certainly say to the Minister that we have to agree that, of course, this should be a free service to citizens who only need the ordinary thing, namely to have a deposit account. I should just like to return to the question of deposit account only, because that is not entirely satisfactory either. However, there must be the possibility of a free account. If the government does not agree to this, we think that all pensions, cash benefits and other benefits paid by the state should be increased by DKK 180. A year, because otherwise it's a treasure. I mean, if that's the way we say, and we've done that, you've got to have an account in order to get the benefits you're entitled to from the public, pensions, etc., and at the same time we say that by the way, you're gonna have to pay 180 kr. to get the money paid out, well then we should withdraw all benefits by 180 kroner. I know that some people think that 180 kroner. Not much, but if you don't have much or almost nothing, it's DKK 180. Some kind of money, too. But it is also in principle that I think so. If we say that people who are entitled to a pension must have an account, then they should also be able to have that account for free. That's one thing. The biggest problem, in fact, in the legislative proposal when we talk about having the option of a base account, is that there is no right to have payment service attached to it. On the whole, payment services are an unregulated area which needs to be addressed as soon as possible. You can't pay money in this society if you're not registered for payment services, and it's a monopoly owned by two foreign capital funds plus ATP that has a little bit of money in it. It is, of course, capital funds that really control payment services and they use it as a money machine. So did the banks before they sold it to the capital funds. And they had done so to the extent that the fee revenue from payment services had doubled over a few years and now amounts to well over 1 billion. kr. So it is a great deal of money we are talking about and it is paid by the people who have payment services. We should regulate that. I think that's on the way too, but it should be included in this law, we think. When we're looking at the area, there's no reason to leave the payment service thing behind. Then I come to what provoked me a little when I read the proposal. It says all of a sudden that those who have a basic account can just go to the bank and pay their bill. It must have been a long time since the Minister went to a bank to pay a bill. I mean, you get so dried up by fees when you have to pay what in the old days was free, when it was called the giro account. Today, you are being so dried up, and that is part of the billions I spoke of before. And then you tell people that they can just go down to the bank and pay. They can withdraw the money down at the bank and then go down to the post office and pay some huge amount to pay a debit card. I therefore think that this is a huge problem, and we shall also deal with that in the committee's work, possibly with amendments. It has to be the case that people have the opportunity to pay their bills without being ripped off in fees. This is an issue which I think is being skipped far too easily. We will probably end up voting in favour of the proposal, no matter how much we improve it or not, but we think there are some points in it that need improvement, and we will work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165216	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165220	Thank you, sir. President. Well, of course I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that a base account must of course be free of charge, because it has also been decided by law that we should have such a digitisation process in Denmark which forces people to have an account in order to be able to obtain their benefits, their wages and other things. You hear that with: Oh, my God, it's only $15. a month. But if you try to figure it out, let us now say 4.5 million Danes must have such an account, and that is at least low set, I think, then that is something like 810 million. kr. a year. I think, and that is what I would like to ask, does not the Enhedslisten think, namely that if you introduce a base account or this model that the government is setting up, the banks will say thank you and say that it is now more legitimate for them to introduce this particular payment, rather than those who today have it as part of their service. You may pay to have Visa cards or other things, plus cards, debit cards and everything else. But it will be the case that you think it's a little easier to go over to a consumer and say: Now you have to pay this monthly benefit. And that's 70 million. kr. a month.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165345	Now I think perhaps the rapporteur has not fully followed the way the banks actually act. In other words, they have imposed far higher charges on all ordinary consumers of banking services • DKK 60. a month, 100 kroner. a month. After all, there are huge charges for ordinary banking customers, which have come up in amounts that are much higher than what was mentioned before. I really believe that the banks would rather not have the poor robbers. That's why they haven't introduced this a long time ago. They got beaten up so many times when they introduced fees, as Danske Bank and others started doing, and as I think they've all done gradually. They should have said a long time ago: however, we all offer a free or cheap account. It would have been good marketing, I think. But they didn't. I was a little excited when I had to read the hearings, in relation to whether the Finance Council thought this was a good idea or a bad idea, but they had, in committee work, committed themselves to it being a good idea and so they write that it is a good idea. But I don't think it's because they think it's a gold mine. I think they'd rather be free, because banks don't like poor asses, you don't make enough money on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165455	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165457	I would now like to correct the rapporteur: there are no 4.5 million poor robbers in Denmark. But it is the case that all those concerned will be able to get an account and be able to pay if it becomes such a fixed model as in this bill, which gives a legal basis to the minister to say that it must cost DKK 15. What I asked the rapporteur was: does the rapporteur not also believe that the banks will take advantage of it, given that they have legislation that says they have to take 15 kroner? a month for a regular deposit account, and will add that amount? Because I think that many will think that this is a welcome opportunity to take in extra fees. And there it is, then, I say that if there are 4.5 million people who need to have a base account in Denmark I think most people in Denmark have an account then they will also pay this fee. I have my own account in a bank, and I pay no fee for having my account today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165552	Actually, I think most people do. I believe that their fees on one side and the other are huge. But now I'm not going to stand here defending the banks, and I'm going to be the last person in the world to do that. I'd rather go to their general meeting and yell at them, so I'm gonna do that, too, on this point. I've done the same thing here with fees I've actually been at Danske Bank's general meeting to complain about. So I'm gonna bring that, and I'm gonna try and do the math, too. I just think most of us pay more in fees than 180 kr. a year for the services we have in the bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165624	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319165630	Thank you very much. It is indeed a legislative proposal that contains many elements. One of the elements, as we have just discussed, is the proposal, which introduces the power to lay down rules on the content of a basic deposit account. According to the bill, such an account may not cost more than 180 kroner. a year. In the previous draft law, the government abolished maximum prices in connection with the preparation of state reports. Now maximum prices are being introduced for a deposit account, and we cannot really support that. If it is the case that it is said that everyone should have the right to a deposit account, then we think it must be the state that pays that bill. You could do that, either by saying that you relieved everyone who needs an account like this by 180 kroner. a year, or you could come up with another model. But we think that, in principle, if the State imposes an expense, then the State must also bear the cost. This bill also implements the Transparency Directive and the Housing Credit Directive. This means, overall, that it says at least in the consultation answers, and the government itself recognises that the financial sector is subject to quite considerable costs, and this has to be seen in the context of the other regulation that has been imposed on the financial sector in recent years. It should be borne in mind that when you impose costs on a sector, it is always the case that the bill is passed on to consumers, for example. in the form of higher fees. The draft law also contains some things that we are so positive about, for example. This is because insurance companies are given the opportunity to operate and run infrastructure projects; we think that is a good thing. It is also a good thing that this clarification of the regulation of the rules for refinancing mortgage bonds is being made. Then we have some questions. One of them is for example. to what it says is that mortgage lenders are now subject to some of this regulation. Whom will that include? It will also include, for example: Mybanks, which are such a company which helps to create competition in the sector and which has helped to save consumers a great deal of money? Will they now be subject to this, that is to say, will they become intermediaries of mortgage loans, and will they be subject to the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority? We would like a concrete answer to that. All in all, we are a little sceptical about this bill, but we will follow the work of the committee and ask questions, and then we will see what we will end up voting on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319170030	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319170039	We are in favour of implementing the Transparency Directive and the Housing Credit Directive. I also think that the Minister has landed salomonically with regard to the perpetual discussion that everyone has the right and the opportunity to have a basic deposit account. So far, so good. However, I also think that the proposal here updates the debate we have been having over a long period of time, which is about how much regulation we still have to keep introducing and implementing in relation to the financial world. I think that what we need in Danish society is that there are some locomotives, some power centres, some muscles that will help ensure growth in society. There is a burgeoning recovery on the way, there is a tiny optimism, and some relatively positive things are happening in Danish society. I am not talking about the fact that there is a real credit squeeze in Danish society right now, but I am talking about the fact that what we need is that we have a financial world that will help to invest, help to push forward various activities. There is the biggest obstacle to this if you entangle the financial world too much, if you make too much regulation, too many demands. There we have together implemented a number of bank packages, implemented EU legislation and also made Danish legislation, which has created more solidity, more substance, also in the financial world. But now and here it is time to stop, think and reflect on whether it is not time for us to think about going the other way, just as we might see whether there are areas we can deregulate, whether there are areas where we can make it a little easier to be a financial company. After all, the proposal here envisages further regulation and again making it a little more difficult to be a financial company. After all, directives are now being implemented which we are positive about, but at least as legislators it is important to reflect on things all the time so that there is not too much legislation and we do not slow down too much to be able to be a muscle in terms of investing in growth in society. But from that point of view we can support the government's proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319170259	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319170307	I would like to thank you for receiving this proposal, which has indeed been described as an overall proposal, and that has also been the intention. But may I not start with the question of this basic deposit account. At any rate, I have been following that debate for quite a number of years, when concerns have been expressed about whether people in Danish society, especially those who may not have felt so well, had the right to and the possibility of obtaining an account at all. At some point I think they were also referred to as unwanted customers, troublesome customers, all that could be said, which was probably also true, because it was not something that made the individual financial institution any greater profit. You have to admit that. But we all, I hope, have taken the view that it is unworthy and not in order for a society to deny some people the right to a basic account, and that is what an agreement with the industry has meant for them. That is why I think that today's time should have been a little more spent on commending the industry than on scolding them when it has finally succeeded. I know that it is the attitude of some parties that everything has to be wrong, but you can probably figure it out, especially with the deep insight you have, after having dealt with the banks, albeit critically, for many years, that it is not, or will be, a big profit business for any financial institution in this world, that they can be allowed to raise a maximum of DKK 15. in charge, if that's what they're finally doing. I guess it won't be, quite the opposite. What this is going to mean is that the banks in Denmark are going to pay for them to give the social support that all people are allowed to have a basic account. So I actually think we should sign for that for today rather than scold them for that. Then it is also the case that it does not say that they should charge 15 kroner. They can make it 0 kr., and there are probably some of them who will. I noticed that Enhedslisten also criticised the fact that there was no possibility of payment services linked to this basic deposit account. And the reason why you do not do that is that it is not technically possible today, but it will be from 2016, and then it will be as part of implementing our payment account directive. Therefore, from 2016, if you have a basic deposit account, you will also have the opportunity to use payment service. Dansk Folkeparti asked a number of questions about the Housing Credit Directive and others. I understood it was critical. I did not fully understand the point in all the questions, but we will try to answer them in the context of committee work. Because we certainly did not recognise the issues raised here. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also asked questions about the dissemination of mortgage loans and other things, which we would also like to examine in more detail in the context of the work of the committee. Finally, the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the Conservatives stressed that too much legislation should be taken care of with regard to financial institutions and the financial world, but fortunately, at the same time, they stressed the support of the directives that we are implementing. Then it's hard not to introduce them, I guess. I also think it was very sensible for us to put in place the agreement agreed by the industry, otherwise it would be unintroduced. And the fact that we are making a correction in relation to an earlier agreement, so that it becomes more precise, surely we cannot be against it either. So I don't think there's anything superfluous here. However, this is the case, and I think I have said this before, that with the large, complex legislative work in and around the financial sector as a clean-up on top of the whole financial crisis, we are at the end of the road now. And we are. I think that what we are going to see in the future is some corrections in those places where we may not have made it enough, or some improvements, what we can come up with. But it will not be the case that, to the same extent as we have seen in previous years, we will burden the industry with many of these new types of proposals. However, I would like to stress once again that this has been necessary because we need to have strict and proper rules of play in the financial sector. Because if things go wrong in the financial sector first, they will not only go wrong. It's gonna go wrong for all of us. That is what we have been feeling for 5-6 years in a row, until fortunately it is now beginning to move forward for the Danish economy again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319170852	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319170854	It was just about the payment service where the Minister said it was not technically possible. I don't think I can quite understand that, but we'll have to ask about it if there's any technique. As I understand it, it is an EU directive that you are waiting for, and I see no reason to wait for the EU to produce a directive if we think it is a good idea to link an option for payment services to the base account that we now have on the agenda today. That was one thing. The second point is also one of the things I mentioned in my speech, namely that it is a money machine because there is no regulation. In other words, on the Dankort we have a regulation in relation to how much the Dankort is being used and so that technological developments must also benefit customers and business and shops. It should be the same with payment service, but here it is the opposite. The more users of payment services, the more the fee increases, and we therefore think that something needs to be done about this as soon as possible. It's really a place where the Danes get dried.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319170958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171000	For me it is stated that from 2016 we can facilitate this with payment service. I cannot say why that is precisely not technically possible. I shall make it clear to the questioner that I am not the one who is programming, so I do not know, but we will clarify it so that there is a precise basis for it. On the question of fees and payment services and other things, I almost think I would like to refer to how difficult it is and how long it might even be far along the way to start running after many of these services. Because, as we see at the moment at the rate at which electronic payment services change, it is far from certain that it is payment services that will be particularly relevant in a few years' time, compared to the way we pay. So it may be that technological, technical and glorious international developments etc. In fact, it means that it is becoming cheaper and better and simpler for all of us. Some of us can at least be delighted that we can sit at home today and pay things instead of waiting in line at the post office. Then it is possible that it was cheaper at the time when Mr. Frank Aaen stood in line at the post office. I am now delighted to sit at home on the couch and pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171120	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171121	Well, I certainly do with my online bank, but it can't be connected to the base account either. The problem is, of course, that you can give people an account to which they can put the money, and they can also, if they find a bank with a cashier's function, be allowed to withdraw the money in cash. But being able to transfer money to others in the cheapest way possible is not part of the account, and we think that is a big mistake, for it can easily cost much more than the $15. a month, as it will now be an opportunity for banks to demand up. The second, the fee, can easily amount to a much larger amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171203	Should we not agree that the people we are trying to target here with a basic account are, of course, some of them, which we at least for many people think are poor people in this society and who have problems that may be heavier than just keeping order on financial transactions or anything else. These are people who have had problems with getting an ordinary account in a bank and going in and withdrawing their money or putting a credit card in the machine or whatever it may be. These are the people we guarantee the opportunity to have a basic deposit account. These are the ones we're talking about here. I do not think that people who otherwise tend to sign up for payment services and make various electronic transactions or anything else are in the same category. I'm sure they don't have the opportunity to do a normal banking business and have a perfectly normal engagement with their bank. I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171300	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171316	The debate is open. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171340	In a modern society like Denmark, everyone should have access to fast broadband. That is the clear ambition and objective of the Left. For many years, therefore, we in the Left have been involved in taking a large number of initiatives in the telecommunications field, which have provided a good coverage for a great many Danes. Unfortunately, however, there are still places in the country where the coverage is not good enough and if people cannot get a proper connection or cannot get a connection at all, I understand the frustration. The draft law here will then help to remove some of the obstacles that today can help put restrictions in the way of rolling out broadband in Denmark. The proposal stems specifically from EU directives, something which is rooted in a resolution that we ourselves tabled on the part of the Left, and also in the agreement on tourism reached last year by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament. First, the EU's so-called infrastructure directive is being implemented, which aims to ensure better access to so-called passive infrastructure. This means that other players can make use of empty pipes, for example, which are already in the ground. This reduces the costs of rolling out broadband and will mean that more Danes can get a proper broadband connection. Better coordination of construction works, so-called co-excavation, requirements for the preparation of broadband infrastructure in new and newly renovated buildings and access to existing infrastructure in buildings. It may all sound a bit technical, but it is small steps that each makes it a little easier to get broadband rolled out to more. This reduces the costs of the telecommunications companies and will enable more people to be connected to the network. The European Commission has also come up with a recommendation on promoting competition and improving the investment environment in the broadband sector, which is important: better competition for the benefit of consumers and improved opportunities to promote investment, because investment is needed to ensure roll-out takes place. Unfortunately, we have to note that investment in the Danish telecommunications market has fallen in recent years, so that initiatives are taken in the other direction is certainly necessary. A number of the initiatives are followed up with this proposal by adjusting the powers of the Danish Business Administration on so-called non-discrimination. This means that suppliers with significant market power may be subject to a number of documentation requirements so that other providers can also offer new retail products that may arise. This is not something entirely new, because the Danish Business Authority already has the opportunity to do so, among other things. to create a so-called suspension period, but the changed powers must ensure an improved competitive situation in relation to the rules in force. However, as the proposal says, there may be extremely intrusive powers, and I have noted that it will require relatively much before this opportunity is used, and that makes sense. Generally speaking, we in Denmark have a requirement for merger control if companies that are very active in the market merge. However, the current turnover limit has not proved to be sufficient in the telecommunications sector, so the proposal provides for sectoral merger control. We have tabled a resolution on the same subject ourselves in the past, so we naturally support that part of the proposal here, but with the comment that the starting point in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, and what we have pointed out, is that it is problematic if there is a concentration of infrastructure in the case of mergers. This is because, since 1999, an essential element of the telecommunications policy in Denmark has been to promote what is called infrastructure-based competition, and that is why it has been our aim, with the desire for merger control, precisely to prevent mergers and acquisitions from securing a greater amount of infrastructure for the largest company, thereby weakening infrastructure-based competition. That is why the proposal proposes that if the turnover limit is less than 100 million. kr., that is an option with this proposal, where it has so far required a turnover limit of more than 100 million. kr. In the consultation answers, a number of questions have also been raised about the concrete shape of what I said about the infrastructure-based, i.e. whether it should also apply to companies if they do not own infrastructure, and I can say that we would like to look at this in committee from the Left. We basically agree with the principle, but is the model quite right? We would like to take a closer look at this. Finally, the proposal translates part of the agreement on tourism from last year, precisely the part that allows municipalities to offer tourists access to free, i.e. tax-paid, wifi. For the Left, it has been important that the municipalities should not be able to act as a telecommunications company themselves, but have the opportunity to buy a solution from a private operator. In order to prevent this offer to tourists from weakening the willingness to invest in the private market, we think that a fine balance has been struck in relation to the fact that the offer is limited to one hour per day. Otherwise, there is a risk that the so-called free read: the taxpayer-paid offer removes the desire to invest, and thus it risks hampering the expansion of the mobile and broadband network in Denmark, which we otherwise need. It is also worth noting, of course, that common rules are currently being worked out within the EU, for example. what is called Roam like Home, which means that you do not have to pay more for your data connection in another EU country than in your own country. It is probably a few years before that happens, so it is fine that we give it the opportunity. All in all, it is a proposal that we in the Left believe is moving in the right direction and that is why we agree with it. Are all the problems resolved with this proposal? No, further initiatives are still needed to ensure better mobile and broadband coverage in Denmark, and we are ready for this from the Left, but, as I said, we support the proposal as it is a step in the right direction. And I promised to say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171948	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319171957	Thank you. The government is committed to improving the digital infrastructure in Denmark. We need to focus on facilitating the spread of good Internet coverage even more, and this requires that we also have the courage to go further. This bill sets out new ways of promoting better broadband in Denmark by improving and exploiting existing opportunities a little better than what we are doing today. We often hear that fast Internet throughout Denmark is crucial to the growth of society, and we in the government agree with that view, and we are constantly working towards making the right demands to the telecommunications companies and entering into the right cooperation precisely in order to be even better equipped with broadband. With L 157 the government will provide the opportunity to do so, and then we hope that the business community will follow up. The bill has three parts. One part allows companies to use other companies' infrastructure, where there is room for it, against payment, of course, and in this way the resources are used better and the costs are reduced when the infrastructure is expanded. Expanding broadband infrastructure is expensive, and that is why we must do what we can to make it easier. With the amendment of the law, in which companies will be able to buy their way into vacant places with each other in future, we hope that the infrastructure will be expanded more quickly. The draft law also extends merger control in the telecommunications market. The telecommunications market is very special in that there are not many players on the market. Everyone finds that there are high costs of establishing infrastructure and that it takes a long time for investments to be made back home. It is necessary to ensure good competition on the market. No one's interested in us ending up with a monopoly. We consider that there is a need for special control of mergers, even if smaller companies form part of the merger, among others. because the infrastructure provided for in a buy-in or merger may be worth considerably more than what turnover shows. The third part of the bill is that municipalities can offer tourists 1 hour free WiFi per day. The Internet is part of the tourism of the future, which is why it is obvious that tourists in Denmark should also have access to it. Nevertheless, it is important that it does not affect private telecommunications companies. Therefore, the emphasis has been on drafting the law so that the municipalities do not compete with the telecommunications companies and that the municipalities must, of course, pay the telecommunications companies for making Wi-Fi available. The experience from Helsingborg, where you have had a similar model for some time, is that it has not had negative consequences for the telecommunications companies, and therefore I am also confident that it can work in Denmark. The clear message the government is sending with this bill is that we are putting our hands on expanding and developing the digital infrastructure throughout Denmark. Now it is up to business to continue their good work in creating a world-class digital infrastructure. We must have good and solid Internet connections across the country, and the proposal here is moving in the right direction. The Socialists naturally support the proposal and, at the same time, I must inform you that the Radicals also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319172330	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319172336	Thank you. Here we have a legislative proposal which deals with a number of things, and the things I want to deal with in my speech are the joint use of passive infrastructure, something about the sector-specific merger control and so free WiFi in the tourism sector. After all, it is parts that have been made agreements on both growth plans and tourism so in this way I can already reveal that we in the Danish People's Party of course support the bill, since we ourselves are part of the agreements that are partly implemented here. The first part, then, concerns the exploitation of passive infrastructure, which must take place across supply areas. In short, it can be said that this is about, for example, the fact that there is a problem with the budget. be capable of rolling fibres through sewers or, if they are water companies, through other passive infrastructures that they have. This, of course, helps to make it cheaper when you do not have to spend as much money on digging costs, which is, of course, the very high cost of digging broadband into the ground quickly. And we think it is really positive that there is this measure which should make broadband less expensive, hopefully also in rural areas; at least one can hope for that. However, there is one thing I would like to mention as one thing we would like to have examined more through the work of the committee. Because there is one thing that is worrying, and that is that this proposal also provides access for a telecommunications operator to access the passive infrastructure of another telecommunications operator. So, an example is that if South Energy has available capacity in their infrastructure, the TDC or other companies should be able to put their networks around the same empty pipes. And I think that can be a brake on investment, because if you get into an area where you might have a potential market and know that the others can use your infrastructure immediately, then it can be a brake on it; then there may not be the same interest in boosting new Internet into those areas. Then I know that it is part of the proposal that you can of course get paid for it, but it does, after all, technically it does in the example I used that a company would then be free from making a lot of investments, but instead could make it variable costs. It might well be that this way it was lucrative and it could see a business model that was better for the company, i.e. by getting variable costs instead of large, heavy investments, which, after all, is investing in broadband. So I may be afraid that this will give a less incentive to invest, but that is something I would like to have drilled a little during committee work. Basically, however, I think it is a good move to give access to passive infrastructure. The idea of merger control is also very positive in the Danish People's Party. This is something on which we have dealt with resolutions in the past, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned. We think it is good that the framework should be extended so that we can also get the fence in, that it can be of great importance if there are small companies which have a significant infrastructure, but perhaps do not have a large customer base or a large turnover, but still can have a problem, compared to if it is a leading market player who buys these companies. So it's fine that you get it through merger control. Then the last part I would like to mention is that of tourism, which translates parts of the growth plan made for Danish tourism, which we are part of from the Danish People's Party. It allows municipalities to make free WiFi available 1 hour a day per day. Unity in limited areas, which must then also be related to international tourism. It is also an excellent initiative that has been called for by the municipalities, so we think that is good, and that helps to make Denmark more attractive to tourists. I must say, however, that it is to be hoped that these are tourism objectives which can also be covered within that hour. I think it could be a little bad for a tourist if it's something that might take 2 hours to see, and then he has only the opportunity to get Wi-Fi for 1 hour. However, it is clear that this is a balancing act in that it should not destroy the market for those operators who are already there so that they do not bother to invest. So of course you have to find a balance in it, and it is fine that you get it started with the framework that is now in place, and then you have to evaluate later whether there might be a derogation for individual tourist destinations where there may be a need for it to be for 11⁄2 or 2 hours. But basically, I understand that it does not work out that there is full and free access in large urban areas because it destroys the market completely. But with those words I can say that we in the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319172823	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur. I understood that Mrs Auken was covered by the Socialist rapporteur, but then she showed up anyway. This is Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319172838	And it is even worse because, as the radical rapporteur cannot be present, I am a standin for a radical rapporteur. It's getting worse and worse. Well, I certainly have to read out the following speech, and it is not long, so it is not a major disturbance of the program. When a company has to roll out broadband, the cost of digging 80 per cent. This proposal is intended to help put empty pipes into use and thus limit costs, so that we hopefully roll out fiber to more Danes. In addition, we are strengthening merger control in the telecommunications market, and we can also welcome this from the radical side, so that we ensure that small mergers too do not distort competition. Last but not least, the municipalities will have the opportunity to make Wi-Fi available to tourists, and we support that as well. The draft law is the implementation of two broad agreements, and we would like to end by thanking the other parties in the Folketing for their good cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319172928	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319172939	Thank you. After all, an agreement has been reached which SF is also part of, and that is why we will support the proposal. I would like to make a single comment about the desire for our broadband system to be world-class, because I think we should go a little further than this. At least there are countries that may boast of countries that we do not usually compare with, for example. South Korea is more world-class than we are. Fortunately, the world does not end here, and the effort to really spread our broadband network out and with great haste is an absolute priority task for the SF. The good thing about this proposal is, of course, as others have mentioned, but I would also like to mention the fact that you have access to empty pipes, and also that in particular cases you can actually use other companies' infrastructure. I understood that in the Danish People's Party's rapporteur this was made a problem. As I have understood the proposal, and as I understand our agreement, it is not a question of being free-exchangers. It's not like if you use another company's infrastructure, you have to get rid of it cheaper. It is not the construction; it is not the thinking of it, but it is the thinking that we must be rational. When we know that we have problems getting the network into the outermost regions, then we need to be rational, and that is why we also need to have the possibility of using other people's networks or systems. And I support that very much, because otherwise I am not sure that we will be going into the outermost regions, and I think that all parties actually agree on that and I know that all parties agree that we should do what we can for that. As far as merger control is concerned, I would say, as others have said, that we have a sector which is slightly distorted, and that is why we need stricter merger control, and that is what we are introducing here. I am also pleased that we agree that there should be additional merger control here. The last was the tourism thing. I would have liked you to be a little more large than just to give this hour. That's what we could agree on. I think that the municipalities could give much more. I think it is very sensible in terms of tourism that we should be allowed to give free WiFi, and I think that this is something that will be so in demand in a few years' time that we will have to change it. But then you can say, as I know other politicians have said before me, that we can always change it. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173243	There is just one brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173246	The reason why I am speaking in a debate about an agreement that we otherwise share is precisely that with the outermost regions. I just want to clarify what's my concern. If you take an area around Herning like e.g. Eagle, where there is poor coverage today, I think everyone agrees that it is good to get coverage in these areas. What I fear is only if a company like EnergyMidt, which covers the area, chooses to roll out empty pipes to cover these companies because they can see there can be a business model because they can fairly safely cover the vast majority of customers in the area. If at the same time they can see that other companies can come and cheat for a variable cost, but do not have to have the long-term, large investments, but still can cover the same customers, then my fear is that then EnergyMidt will not cover that area because other companies can come in at the same time and exploit this infrastructure. That is just what I would like to see clarified further in the work of the committee, because I agree with the ambition that we should go into the outermost regions. I just want an assurance that this is not the opposite of what is happening, because I fear that you will not go into those areas if you open up the possibility that competitors can at the same time breathe their stuff around the same pipes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173352	I understand the concern. I just don't think that's how we knitted it together. I think it is clear from the proposal that we cannot get into that situation, because of course a price must be paid which reflects reality so that we do not have such a situation, but let us look at it in committee. Maybe it's a better place to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173416	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173424	I can also say briefly that the Enhedslisten also supports the proposal before us and, after all, regards it as an extension of opportunities and an improvement. When I say after all, it's because I really think the one-hour wi-fi thing is petty. But I also think that we are too shy to allow the public sector to play a greater role in this. We have actually accepted that on Bornholm the public must play a greater role, that is. municipalities and other public bodies, to have broadband connections rolled out. I really believe that this should be the case throughout the country. Now we are trying to get companies to cooperate, and we are trying to avoid there being a monopoly and so on, but it is all a kind of defence mechanism against the market, which is therefore not acting so sensibly here. Compared to water pipes, compared with rail, compared with everything else, it is precisely because we have a public monopoly in these areas that it works sensibly and cheaply and to everyone's delight. Imagine if we had three water pipes lying next to each other, or if we had to have double rail tracks, yes, it might be a good idea, especially in North Jutland but thus several companies that have their own railway tracks. That would be ridiculous, but we still have it here. With regard to infrastructure in the IT sector, in broadband, we accept that there should be different railway tracks. It's kind of a waste. Now my former playmate as Minister of Finance, the President of the Danish Parliament, has left. One of the biggest mistakes he made in his time was when he sold TDC, because he thus also sold the entire copper grid and thus also sold the infrastructure of our modern means of communication. Now we are growing all the way from it, because now the copper grids are also more or less outdated. But the fact that there are some things so important to society as a whole that we make sure that it is the public who makes it available should not be so shy of hands. That is actually what sometimes brings enormous progress and makes it the best possible price and the best possible quality for everyone. So that was just the individual comment, but we are in the agreements on this, and that is why we support it, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173659	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173708	This bill implements the EU's infrastructure directive, and then it also implements the growth plan for digitalising Denmark, which we in the Liberal Alliance are part of. The bill also contains an element of the tourism growth plan agreement, which LA is not part of. This is the element that allows municipalities to offer free WiFi to tourists. In principle, we think it is bad style for such a draft law to contain elements from different agreements, of which we, for example. is part of one agreement, but not in another agreement, adding it together in one bill. I do not think we should do that, because it can force us to vote in favour of something that we did not agree with, and that is why we believe that the element of free WiFi for the municipalities should be removed from this bill. We share the concerns that the Danish People's Party has also raised about the incentive structure by making such infrastructure investments if others can use them later. These are some things that we would like to see clarified in the work of the committee. However, we are of course positive about the part that we are involved in, the digitalisation agreement for Denmark, but we think that the element of free WiFi that comes from another agreement should be tampered with, as we are not part of that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173857	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319173906	I should like to thank you for your support for the bill and I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the fact that we are implementing yet another part of our major tourism agreement, which allows tourists to enjoy a good experience by being able to access the network even when they arrive in the country. I think that we have now reached an agreement on this. We are also making an agreement to implement EU directives and other things that will make the broadband network more efficient, and there is only reason to welcome this. I would like to say that I understand the problem that the Danish People's Party and others are raising, in relation to whether you are now risking that no one dares to be the first mover, so everyone will sit and wait for everyone. Why should initial investments and other things be made if somebody else wants to do so? It will be arranged in such a way that this problem will be taken into account precisely in the price which it will cost to rent into any empty pipes, so as to ensure that there will always be investment out there. And if the parties of the Folketing are to be comforted with further examples and other things, we are happy to do so in connection with the committee work. However, once again, thank you very much for your support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319174032	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319174050	The debate is open. Does the Minister wish to speak first? The Minister of Justice I thought I was going to start). No, it is the rapporteur of the Left, but if the Minister wishes to say something from the outset, the Minister is welcome to do so. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the Left, so we should not put obstacles in the way of the Minister; it is always nice to see a minister eager to get on the platform. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319174130	Thank you. Well, I'd be happy to step aside for the Minister. R 9, The Minister for Justice's report on the administration's application of coercive measures and information obligations outside criminal justice shall, inter alia, deal with: on legal certainty, and this is something that we must take very seriously in the Folketing, but perhaps sometimes it will not take seriously enough. But here in the Folketing we are adopting legislation which is actually managed and administered out in reality, and the statement we are discussing here today includes, among other things, the following: some very, very central issues in this regard, and that is why it is also being debated here in the Danish Parliament. And this is a debate that we should not underestimate. In 2004, we in Parliament passed the law on legal certainty, and part of that law is that the current Minister of Justice should submit a written report to the Folketing once a year on the use of coercive measures and information obligations by the administration outside criminal justice. So if you cut to the bone, what we are dealing with here today is an inventory of the use by public authorities of the derogations that we, among others, have. to carry out inspections on private premises in undertakings and other areas outside the provisions of the Code of Procedure. And it is the Code of Procedure that usually regulates where the police are reporting, i.e. questions of court orders and other matters. These areas are particularly important in relation to the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Taxation, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Business and Growth and the Ministry of Food, all of which have a number of control authorities in their respective areas of negotiation. In this context, it is important to have a special self-determination in the constitution in mind, and it is about the inviolability of the dwelling, and section 72 of the constitution says: "The building is inviolable. House search, seizure and investigation of letters and other papers, as well as breaches of postal, telegraph and telephone secrecy, where no law provides for a special exception, shall take place only after a court order. If I may quote the Basic Law, it is because the statement we are discussing today in the Danish Parliament contains a large number of areas where there are therefore exceptions, i.e. some specific exceptions, in which the authorities, with the blessing of the Danish Parliament, believe that it serves a good purpose to violate the home without a court order. This can be seen, for example, when the Factory Inspectorate visits a company unannounced or when SKAT checks whether you have paid your tax. So there are a great many examples of the application of these special exceptions, and we therefore owe it to each other to discuss the practical application and development of the exceptions to the constitution. The legal certainty law of 2004 lays down rules and guidelines on how and when authorities must exercise control, and that makes quite sense. This is among other things. rules that coercive measures covered by the law must be announced in writing 14 days in advance, and this has been written into the legislation so that the intervention is as limited as possible. However, these rules may be waived in a number of cases where, in particular, consideration of whether the coercive measure is being implemented would be lost if prior notification were not to be given. It is therefore a matter of great concern. In this debate, it is also relevant to look at section 2 of the legal certainty law of 2004, which among other things. provides that such coercive measures may only be applied if less restrictive measures are not sufficient and if the intervention is proportionate to the purpose of the intervention. It is therefore important to keep in mind, because it is the rule that must ensure that coercive action is not used as the first every time, if you can achieve the same result by means of a less intrusive approach. Last year, when we discussed the Minister for Justice's statement, it was such a tame affair, both because the appearance in this Chamber was limited and because the government parties' legal rapporteurs uncritically expressed great enthusiasm for the statement, which actually contained several shortcomings, and almost got the impression that it had not been read. The radical legal rapporteur, sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen, said one day that he had difficulty preparing for a debate on how many ministries were involved, and I hope that even if I may be disappointed, I'm sorry! I'm sorry! President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). ) Thank you. I regret and say that the reason why I came to smile a little is that once again there are not many rapporteurs present in this Chamber today when we are discussing this statement a late evening hour when it deserves some attention. Because this is about some rather important provisions of our constitution. What we see in the statement is once again a sharp increase in the number of interventions which do not involve judicial decisions. There are an increasing number of people who are concerned about legal certainty, legal experts who are shouting guardly in arms and point out that our legal certainty in Denmark is under pressure. Last year, Berlingske published a large number of articles on an increasing number of house surveys, seizures, investigations, letters, etc., such as: is included in the statement. In fact, there are 100,000 of these examples where you do control without a court order, and where section 72 of the Constitution says that there are these peculiar exceptions. One might be tempted to say that in very many cases many interventions are being made, and one might also ask whether that is what is meant by section 72 of the Constitution when it was written. The Think Tank Justitia concludes, after their review of the area in 2014, that legal certainty has been watered down and that some fundamental freedoms, among others. respect for private property is under pressure. So this is a development in which, unfortunately, steps are slowly being taken to give more powers to the authorities, and that is worrying. For that was not the idea when these legislative provisions were made in the legal certainty law. That is why I believe that there is a need to look at whether there has been a slippage in this area, and that is why it is important that we deal with this statement today. If you look at the statement, you will fall over two areas that are particularly interesting. It's SKAT and the FDA. There has been a significant increase in the FDA's inspections, i.e. without a court order, in fact, a very substantial increase, and if you look at whether this has led to more cases, more police reports, then it does not seem to be the case. That is why one has to ask oneself whether there is proportionality in the way the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority and the Ministry of Food carry out their control. You have to deal with that. When we had the debate last year, I also highlighted SKAT and asked the Justis Minister to deal with the problem that the Treasury would not determine how many inspections they have carried out without a court order. Actually, that's exactly what we're gonna need this statement for. Here I would like to sign and say that if you look at the statement this year, the SKAT has now come so far that you now find out whether these interventions have been announced or not, but you continue to refuse to determine what these interventions lead to, what that tax control leads to, how many police reports, how many cases it leads to. Then a general figure has been provided in the statement, but that is not much that can be used. I have to say that I find it shameful that we have a law passed in 2004 which clearly obliges the ministries to contribute to this statement and that the SKAT does not make a satisfactory contribution so time and time again. However, there is a positive development, a development in the right direction, and I would like to sign for that. I can say on behalf of the Left that we have taken note of the statement. We are, however, among others. Concerned about how many people allow the Folketing to commit violations of, for example: The inviolability of housing, Paragraph 72 of the Constitution, without a court order, and we are also concerned that there is still an increase in the number of examples where authorities avail themselves of the special exceptions which the Folketing has thus granted, and therefore we will follow this area with interest. The Left believes that it is important for us here in the Folketing to have the fundamental legal debate on these matters, because there is a reason why section 72 of the Constitution has been written as it is, and we must ensure that we remain vigilant and we must ensure that practice does not slip. With those words, I must say that this is the position of the Left Parliamentary Group on the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319175040	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319175047	Thank you. I have to say that I am speaking on behalf of the Socialists, Radicals and the SF when I say that we have read the statement with great interest and that everyone has the view that it is positive that the statement is prepared and, above all, has the inter-ministerial cut. We take note of the statement and hope that the work on the statement and the debates we have on the statement will continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319175126	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. We are moving forward a little in the series of speeches, because I am going to make a speech myself and we are going to have a replacement in the chair. But it's Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319175142	Thank you. I could barely get my arms down. I thought there had been parliamentary elections or something like that, since I was allowed to be number three. I don't think I've ever tried that before, but it's just nice. I also think it is important that we have these debates on the use of coercive measures and information obligations outside criminal justice. It should not be a secret that the Liberal Alliance believes that there are far too far-reaching possibilities for various forms of coercive action and that we would like to see a greater review going beyond just such a statement, asking how things are going and getting the answer that things are going very well so that a proper review was carried out and looked at whether the possibility of doing these coercive measures could be reduced. Because there is, of course, some sort of interference in, for example. private property, which of course we are not very enthusiastic about. So we actually imagine that at some point a greater effort could be made to see which rules are in force, which ones are a legitimate reason to hold on to, and which ones we could abolish again. I think that when the provisions of the Constitution were drawn up at the time, it was hardly imagined that it was just a blank cheque to make coercive measures in relation to virtually anything. In other words, there is no form of limitation in the Parliament's zeal to allow for new coercive measures. But that is something we will take up, perhaps even after a parliamentary election, if it goes as we hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319175335	I think we will have to postpone the sitting for one minute until Mrs Karen J. Klint arrives. She's coming. I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319175411	We've just got a scene change here. And the next speaker is rapporteur Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319175435	Thank you. Of course, I regret that what is happening is a little late. But that is when things go faster than they are calculated and when rapporteurs are missing and when rapporteurs speak for too short a time and when there is not so much interest in this statement. Of course, I must also regret this to the Minister, but the rapporteurs who are here should not suffer. There should of course be more interest in such a statement, and in this respect we must of course also say from the Danish People's Party that we have looked with interest at the statement. We are, of course, kind of like the Left critical of this, with access to people's private property. Care must be taken not to make any coercive measures in which one goes in and violates private property rights unnecessarily. There may of course be certain cases in which we can say that the various agencies and supervision must come without warning, and there may of course also be some reasons why you go into a company outside the opening hours, precisely because there may be something you need to look for in particular. But there is usually an explanation of what is wrong with the supervision, and there have not been any major complaints about it. We can also look at the various supervisions and see how many situations there have been unheard-of and alerted and how many police reports there are. Then, in my opinion, we should be very careful to judge from the figures whether this has been done correctly, because it is not, as we see it, a question of how many police reports have been made, which is a sign of how well supervision has been. There is, of course, a reason why there is a police report, and that is because something is not quite right. But we must also look at the fact that the supervision that we are doing must be concentrated where we can predict that there are some problems. You know that there are some areas where there are problems and there are some companies, and there may also be something about customs and tax where you have to enter and check in relation to the business or company inventory and such. So you concentrate your efforts where there are problems, and you don't just go out and say consistently that now we're doing a lot of supervision to get some good numbers. There we have to look at where the problems arise. That's where you have to do the supervision. However, as I have said, we must, of course, always be careful not to overstep private property rights unnecessarily, and I do not think that is what the Minister means either. If I know the Minister correctly, the Minister is also concerned that at least people should not be offended unnecessarily, but only do the work where there is a reasonable suspicion that something might be wrong. However, the Danish People's Party takes note of this and, like the Left, I regret that there are no more rapporteurs present. It might have been appropriate for us all to be here, but I don't have to be smart about it. There may be a lot of excuses for not being here. I am not going to blame any of my colleagues for not being able to be here because, of course, I do not know the reason for this. There is always a valid reason why you cannot be present in the Chamber. However, as I said, we will take note of the statement and follow developments and see how it will be next time. And, of course, we assume and believe that the efforts that are being made will help to improve conditions around the world and may also help to reduce the number of notifications and injunctions next time we have to see the statement. It would be nice if we could see that the measures that have been taken result in fewer police reports. It is always the sort of thing that I think should be measured, namely whether the effort has worked. You can see that there will be fewer reviews. If the effort does not work, I just think that we will have a sharp increase in the number if preventive action has not worked and if people have not been made to understand that they must comply with the rules that exist. So if everyone around who can get these oversights from those regimes does what they have to do, there will be fewer reviews, and that will be a big step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319180005	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no more rapporteurs in the Chamber, so I give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319180012	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. I have listened to the various statements that have been made and would like to state that this is, of course, essentially the need for a balance between the authority's ability to navigate and fundamental principles of legal certainty. As in previous years, the Ministry of Justice has consulted on the preparation of the report here. This has not least happened in a number of ministerial areas where there are a significant number of annual inspections and there are also different management areas. Essentially, the consultations point to the fact that there is no general indication of problems with the application of the rules in practice. However, heavy workflows, cases are mentioned, and also the recurring problem with a little negative expectations. The Ministry of Justice evaluates what may not be quite surprising, but they do so that, in the light of this, it is not possible to raise important questions in relation to the practical application of the law on legal certainty, and when I say that it is not surprising, it is because it has also happened in the past. There have been few objections from the companies concerned, and there have also been few cases of objections in relation to alerted or unnoticed verification visits. This was specifically mentioned in relation to the food authorities. After all, it should be borne in mind that it does not make sense to have announced visits only if we are to be sure that food control is good enough. I would also like to say that the statement also refers to the new provisions adopted in 2014 on coercive measures, and the Ministry of Justice has, for the purposes of mentioning possible new legislation, conducted a consultation with all ministries, where they have been asked to inform whether, in the period 2014 within their territories, new legislation has been adopted on the right of the administration to take coercive action outside criminal justice. A number of ministries have stated in their reply to the Ministry of Justice that this has not happened, and others have then provided details of where it has happened. Last year, a total of ten provisions on coercive measures were adopted in some main case groups. This has been both in relation to the continuation of existing provisions, which have also been extended in some places, the existing provisions may have been repealed, and there are also coercive measures. Each of the new provisions has been examined in the report. The statement must of course also be seen in the context of the legislative examination of other ministries' legislative proposals, which is being carried out in the Ministry of Justice, where, on the basis of the principle of the inviolability of the dwelling in Article 72 of the Constitution, as mentioned by the Left, the Ministry is of course endeavouring to ensure that provisions are not unduly drafted which allow authorities to take coercive action and thus obtain access to private property, and this will continue to apply. Thank you for the debate. I am, of course, fully aware of the more fundamental questions in this respect, which are a natural matter for the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319180338	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150319180345	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 20 March 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
