ParlaMint-DK_20150226100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment (Kirsten Brosbøl): Bill no. L 155 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on water supply, etc.) and the Law on the Charging of Conducted Waters. Minister for Food (Dan Jørgensen): Bill No. L 156 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the outdoor holding of pigs. Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 85 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on working clauses in all public contracts). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 86 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of chain-cousin marriages). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the perspective and action plan 2015. R 10). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 24 March 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100122	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 26 by Hans Kristian Skibby (DF), Erling Bonnesen (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF), and a vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 53 (V, DF, LA and KF), against 58 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 26 has been rejected. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 27 of Henning Hyllested (EL), and a vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 19 (SF, EL and 2 DF (by mistake), 91 (V, S, DF, RV, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted in favour and against. Proposal for adoption No V 27 is rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100301	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Someone wants to make a statement. Sir. Christian Juhl as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100334	Bill No. L 101 is, of course, an experimental scheme in which it is possible for the unemployed to be able to do more voluntary work. Today, the law is divided into three areas: completely voluntary work, which would never become jobs; what could be jobs; and that is what we are talking about here and what is absolutely jobs and which we are not touching. The Enhedslisten thinks it is a good idea that the unemployed have something sensible to do, especially if they decide what they want to do when they go and wait for a job. It can bring them closer to the labour market and it can provide a more sensible everyday life. And there are a great many unemployed people who are working on development aid, solidarity work, social work and so on. But this proposal does not take into account the fact that we are extending the possibility of unemployed people doing jobs that could be ordinary jobs from 4 hours to 15 hours. In other words, the proposal makes it possible to have almost half-time jobs without tightening up the rules, which means that there is a great risk of displacement, particularly in the social field and especially in the areas of SOSU assistants and others. We have seen that there is a displacement, and that is why we have asked the Minister to tighten up so that we do not risk the displacement of ordinary employees. It would, of course, be totally foolish for the unemployed on unemployment benefits to be involved in crowding out ordinary employees. And when the Minister does not want to help to tighten this up and give greater guarantees that there will be no displacement, we cannot vote for L 101.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100528	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100539	Then we shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the legislative proposal and we shall now be able to vote on it. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 103 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100617	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100635	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. The vote will end. The bill has been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100705	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100722	We shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the draft law and we shall now be able to vote on it. The vote will end. In favour of 55 (S, RV, EL, SF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 51 (V, DF, LA and KF) abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100802	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100818	We shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the draft law and we shall now be able to vote on it. The vote will end. In favour 70 (S, DF, RV, EL, SF, and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 38 (V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Bills have been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100853	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case here either.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100909	Then we shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the legislative proposal and we shall now be able to vote on it. The vote will end. In favour of 102 (S, V, DF, RV, EL, SF, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 5 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226100943	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226101002	We shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the legislative proposal and the vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 71 (S, DF, RV, EL, SF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 38 (V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226101038	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the authors and for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226101119	Thank you for the floor. After all, we are discussing here today B 41, that is to say the first and only treatment. It is a proposal made by the bourgeois parties, including the Danish People's Party, also in the last session. It is about the fact that when a person is paroled, in other words released on probation, commits new crimes and commits new personal crimes, then the residual sentence must always be triggered. That is not the case today. We also discussed this proposal last year in the last session and then the government rejected it. We hope that the government has reconsidered this proposal and we would like to see some from the government parties or the Minister for Justice explaining here in the Assembly today why it is opposed to the parolee getting their rest penalty triggered when they commit new crime. And we would very, very much like to have explained why it still seems that if people commit new personal crimes, their residual sentence should not be triggered. The rules are such today that you have to commit similar crimes, and then the rest of the sentence is triggered. That is to say, if you commit, for example. burglary and paroled for it, the rest of the sentence you have left will not be triggered if you commit violence or murder or worse. I have to say quite frankly that we in the Left think this is very strange. Nor can we understand that the government can live with such a system where the residual penalty is not triggered, because there are, of course, criminals who think about it. It is the case today that if you want to get rid of your residual sentence, you just have to change the category of crime, because then the residual penalty will not be triggered. That's why we've made this proposal, which is that the residual penalty should be triggered if you commit new personal crime. I think it will interest the honourable Things to know the following, without pointing the finger at anyone at all: the assassin who seemed to be responsible for last weekend's events had a long history in our criminal services and in his criminal record. He was convicted twice in the past of forced entry, and it is actually the case that the person in question had a residual sentence left. And if this proposal had been adopted last year and transposed into law, the person in question would probably have been in prison today and would not have been released by the High Court. After all, it illustrates to us bourgeois and at least to the Left that there is a need to put an end to the system we have today, where the residual penalty is not triggered, because it can have quite disastrous consequences. We need to send out a clear signal to the criminals that if you are on parole, that means a trial release. And, of course, when you commit new crime, your residual sentence must be triggered. It's not like that today. We have received no response from the government in the report to the proposal, where we can see nothing other than that we are opposed, or here in the Chamber. So my strong call to the Minister of Justice or to representatives of the governing parties will be: explain why you really think that criminals should be free from their residual punishment when they commit perilous crime. We would like to have that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226101509	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226101519	Then we shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the proposal and we shall be able to vote on it. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 49 (V, DF, LA and KF), against 59 (S, RV, SF, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and 1 V (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. The next item on the agenda, which is a first reading, is that I shall wait to start. Can we move some of the conversations out of the Chamber so that we can start the first reading? I think we're starting now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226101604	The debate is open. And Mrs Jane Heitmann, the rapporteur of the Left, is ready to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226101730	Thank you. Today, we are dealing first with the law of amendment of the law on the use of coercion in psychiatry, a revision of the psychiatry law. And I speak today on behalf of both the Left and the Conservative People's Party. The starting point for the Left is always the patient at the centre; whatever part of the health care you are moving in, the starting point must and must be the care of the patient and the care that the patient is offered the right treatment so that the possibilities for rapid recovery are intact. The work on the bill here has been an even very long process in which we have been around many difficult issues, and the bill here deals with several issues: the legal position of minors has been very close to our minds. In future, the legal status of minors will be directly reflected in the Psychiatry Act, and the starting point for hospitalization in a psychiatric department is the Health Act, so a stay in a psychiatric department is voluntary, and that is a very good starting point. The maturity criterion will be abolished and the legislation will in future be determined solely by the age of the patient. This means that 15 to 17-year-olds now have independent consent powers. The bill introduces a new offer in which parents and children are offered a post-treatment interview in cases where a parent or guardian has given consent to treatment. There is no doubt that forcing a person, a child or an adult to do something against his will should always be the last resort and, as stated in the draft law's observations, forced fixation should not be applied to minors at all. We fully share that point of departure in the Left. Among other things, there are: from the National Association SIND been pointed out that it can be stressful for a family if a mother or a father makes the difficult decision to force the fixation of his own child. I would like to say here that I share SIND's concern, and I therefore welcome the fact that there will now be an opportunity for a post-conversation, just as that part of the bill will have to be evaluated after three years, because I understand well if parents and children may need to have each one word on thoughts, concerns, frustrations, anger, anxiety and all the emotions that may otherwise be associated with big, difficult decisions. One of the challenges of coercive measures and the new concept of force use has, among other things, been: there has been a recommendation from the Danish Health Service on registration in the existing legislation. It is now changing so that the Chief Medical Officer is now obliged to report coercive or force measures. In the long term, this will give us a much more accurate picture of the situation in the individual departments of minors. The Left entered into a finance agreement with the government in 2013, and with the Finance Act we agreed to reduce coercion by 50%. Towards 2020. That ambition is important to hold on to. We have among other things. with summer pool agreements worked purposefully to ensure a framework that can meet our common desire. The draft law here points well in this direction, including as regards the approach to both forced fixation and the adjustments to the longer-lasting constraint, i.e. forced fixations, which extend over 48 hours. And welcome to the Minister! Unfortunately, we have seen under the current government that the forced numbers in terms of long-term coercion have been increasing. This is a challenge that we on the Left have addressed in the Chamber in the past by calling for a debate on the subject. The supervision of forced fixation is now being tightened up so that, after 24 hours, a second opinion has to be obtained, the decision has to be taken by a supervisor, and it is stressed that forced fixation may only be applied for a short time. It is now statutory that prior notification should be obtained during the hospitalization interview and that the involvement of relatives or networks should be considered. The involvement of relatives in particular has been essential to the Left. We have before, among other things. During the pool negotiations, insisted on a more systematic involvement of relatives, because the relatives are often an important resource in relation to among others. recovery. The last point I would like to make here is the new possibilities for checking the mail and examining patient rooms solely on the basis of suspicion and not as in the past on the basis of reasonable suspicions. We on the Left have been concerned for a long time about the many stories and reports about, for example. Drugs in the psychiatric wards. And it has to be stopped. Drugs in psychiatric departments have been discussed in the past in consultation, and I am pleased that the bill here hopefully brings us one step closer to a model that can keep drugs out. As regards the permanent legal basis for up-to-date forced fixation on the Social Security Department and supervision once a year by the Danish Health Service and the extension of the trial system on compulsory follow-up, we in the Left can support the proposed changes. Left and Conservative People's Party supports the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102226	There is a brief comment. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his indulgence in what I had not recorded, namely that the Minister had not arrived. That is very regrettable and we take note of that and we hope that it will not happen again. Then there was a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102251	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. It is, of course, a comprehensive draft law with many different things, but the part that I would like to dive into is the part that deals with the legal status of minors in the Psychiatry Act, which the rapporteur also mentioned in his speech. Because it is true that there has been a clear request both from the Psychiatry Committee and from a large number of organisations that there was a clearer legal position in this area. But that's only half the truth. Because what both the Psychiatry Committee and many organisations are calling for is a legal situation in which it is made clear that children, minors, have rights in accordance with the Psychiatry Act, for example. to complain and to get a appointed patient counselor. But this bill doesn't give them that. It is no more than a week ago that we received the last request from SIND, to which the rapporteur also referred, and Improved Psychiatry, where the parties of the Folketing are urged to reconsider whether this is the right model that has been adopted. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left, what considerations have been raised here by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102359	I think, in particular, that this request has given me consideration in relation to the fact that when a parent has given consent to some coercive measure, one of the things SIND points out is the shreds it can give in the family when a parent insists on a coercive measure to which the child says no. There I understand the concern that SIND has about how the family will find each other afterwards. I am very pleased, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech here, that there will now be this opportunity for post-conversation, so that both parents and children can express both their thoughts and feelings • perhaps frustrations, perhaps anger and perhaps anxiety. There may be a lot of emotions at work. I think it is very important that you as a family have the opportunity to find each other afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102453	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102455	What SIND and Better Psychiatry have said to me when I've talked to them is that they don't think that the post-conversation can solve that problem. It is so serious a burden on a family when parents are faced with the dilemma of deciding whether to impose coercion on their son or daughter that they say that it is far, far better to stress that it is a medical responsibility, a medical assessment, and not leave it to the parents. So they say, in fact, that if you want to support parents being parents for their children and ensuring family unity, then you have to maintain that the question of coercion is based on a medical assessment and is not a question for parents to decide. That is why I think it is rather a pity that although so many organizations and the government's own psychiatry committee agree that the wisest thing would be for children to enjoy the same rights as adults, a majority in the Folketing does not choose to follow that recommendation anyway. I find that difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102557	I understand that, in relation to the subsequent interviews, a notice or guidance will provide guidelines on how this should be done. I think that is important to hold on to. I also think it is important to stick to the fact that exactly the part of the bill dealing with post-conversations will have to be evaluated in a few years' time. I think it is really important, in that process, to make sure that all facets are included. Because, as I said earlier, I understand SIND's concern, but I would also like to say that it is the case that as a parent you also have a responsibility. Although I understand that sometimes it can be a heavy and difficult responsibility, as a parent you also have a responsibility for your children, and you have to take that responsibility, even if it is sometimes in a difficult situation. And then I have no doubt that parents and doctors in the wards will go into dialogue and, of course, stick to what is also stated here in the draft law, namely that the starting point is that children should not be forced to fix at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102706	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102710	In terms of how to ensure that these families, who are already so heavily burdened after their child has been hospitalized, can still hold on to their being a family, I would like to try to ask a little about it, that when a child is to be belted, it is now the case that if parents allow the child to lie in a belt, it is not coercion, it is the use of force. Does the rapporteur think that parents should be placed in a situation in which they have to assess whether their little Anders of 11 years of age should have a belt around their abdomen, strapped in bed and have belts around their arms, around their ankles? Does the rapporteur think that this is what parents should do? How does it help the family afterwards that Mom and Dad have to explain to Anderne that it was they who decided that he should be strapped to the belt?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102816	I simply believe that the starting point here is that little Anders should not be belt fixed at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102824	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102827	That is absolutely right, but it is happening. I have asked the Minister for Health for the figures for children who are subjected to coercion with and without parental consent. Both numbers, both graphs go up, so it happens, it's real. Our starting point is basically that we do not want people to be belt fixed, but that happens. That's why we make this law. We are not abolishing belt fixings, I would just like to emphasise that we have a goal that we want to halve them. That is why my question is one more time: does the rapporteur think that parents are able to assess whether their child should be belted or is it a task and a responsibility and professionalism that should lie with the psychiatrists and the psychiatrists alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226102920	I believe that the starting point for the treatment here is dialogue between parents and health professionals who are around the child. I think it is important to bear in mind that precisely here the draft law says that the starting point is that minors should not be subjected to any coercion at all, they should not be belt-fixed. I think that is an important starting point, that is to say that you are going in and, in reality, sending out a signal that you want a different approach to psychiatry. I also think it is important to insist that where, in the past, it was recommended by the Health Service that you register, it is now the case that you should:
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103003	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Karen J. Klint as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103013	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur of the Left for a very nice review of the principles and attitudes underlying the revision of the Psychiatry Act. We in the Social Democratic Party are very much in line with the positions adopted by the rapporteur of the Left here a few seconds ago. I myself have been working for many years for us to have a national plan of action for psychiatry for the benefit of patients and also for the benefit of relatives and the network around patients, but also for the health care staff to have more clear political guidelines on how we think the work of the treating psychiatry should be organised and on what to build on. As a result, in May last year a long-term plan came from the government on equality and a new focus for the efforts of people with mental disorders. So the work is progressing steadily, and that is why we now have a political consensus that there was a need to have the purpose of psychiatric treatment written in, not only in the general health law, but also in the psychiatry law. That is why it is also important that both the aims and visions of the legislative proposal we are discussing today should not only be debated, but also implemented, so that we really see on the front what is new signals in the legislation on force and coercion in psychiatry. We want a less power- and compulsive psychiatry, we want a more engaging psychiatry where patients and their networks are more involved, including in choosing alternatives to how to organise treatment. And we see fortunately that very good experiences have been made in many places with having an almost forcibly-free department, and in some places you actually have a forced-free department. So it is not unrealistic objectives that have been set up here, but it is a large area to lift a bloc, and therefore it is good that we are not just banning one and banning the other, because it is a process. However, the objectives are clear: it must be a much less compulsive psychiatry and a more engaging psychiatry. There are clear targets for reducing coercion, there are clear targets for having tests with belt-free sections, and there are other very clear targets. It is now very clear that self-determination must be emphasised, that family involvement must be taken into account and weighted, and that the inclusion of alternative assessments must also be included. There is a tightening of supervision by coercion, and so we are getting it with the fact that the power exercised against minors, which has never been recorded as power or coercion, is now being obliged to register, so that what minors are exposed to can also be part of a collecting knowledge experience, so that we can see what is happening to minors, what needs it is that embarrasses the treatment staff and the parents, so that we choose to resort to what looks like coercion towards adults. Now it is described in connection with parental consent for treatment. I am very much in line with the rapporteur from the Left that parental responsibility should be equal. So when you are a parent, you are a parent, and you are, whether you have a cancerous child or you have a mentally ill child, and then you have a parental responsibility that helps you decide on the treatment that the child needs to undergo. It is not the child who has to decide whether to have chemo or whether to have psychiatric treatment that may involve probe treatment against the child's will. It is the responsibility of adults to help the child recover, regardless of the suffering he suffers. I know that it is one of the knots that exists, and I also know that there is no agreement among the medical staff. Some think that children should have equal rights with adults, others say that if we had given them equal rights with adults, the possibility of involving parents in cooperation would have been destroyed. That is why it is very good, I think, that we have politically laid down that everything should now be registered, but at the same time we do not judge which psychiatrist is right in how best to get parents involved in cooperation. However, we have certainly not undermined parental responsibility here, but have just made it clear, and it is also made clear in that way that if a parent does not find it possible to give consent to treatment that holds power against a child, they can say no to it, and then it is the same rules as for adults that apply. The Socialists also support the measures relating to the extension of out-patient coercion and a change and more liberalised use of up-to-date fixation. We are not doing so because we are so happy with those offers, but we are doing so in the context of forced outpatient coercion because we had feared that there were a great many people who were affected by it. Fortunately, there is not, and unfortunately there are so few people involved in the evaluation of the scheme that we really do not have anything to build on the evaluation. I should like to conclude by saying that, in relation to up-to-date fixation, I have also been impressed by the fact that one of the citizens who has been up-to-date fixing has actually said that it has been so positive for her that it should be a legal requirement for her to be able to be up-to-date and not bed-to-be fixed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103608	There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103611	Thank you to the Social Democrats' rapporteur for a comprehensive review of a comprehensive legislative proposal. I would also like to return to the subject of the legal status of minors, because the rapporteur presents it as if it is a new thing to register coercion in relation to children. But the reality is that before 2006 minors were subject to the provisions of the Psychiatry Act when they were subjected to coercion. It was by amending the law in 2006 that the definition of what coercion really is changed, which meant that parents could in future give consent on behalf of their children, and then it was no longer coercive. Among other things: SIND, Better Psychiatry and a number of health lawyers have pointed out that they do not believe that was the intention of the bill at the time. It was not clear from the comments, nor was it part of the debate at the time, that children should not be included in the Psychiatry Act. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur shares the view that this was what had happened and that it was actually the case before 2006 that children had rights at the level of adults, for example. the right to complain about coercion and the right to obtain a designated patient counselor in connection with coercion.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103721	I have nothing to say about the historical review and the reason why the laws were addressed as they were. However, I would like to reiterate that when the Socialists are in favour of equalising parental responsibility in the somatics and parental responsibility in psychiatric matters, it is because we think it is important that there is parental responsibility, that parents are involved in the treatment of their children, that they take responsibility for it. But it is also because we have listened to the psychiatrists who say that if we turn the children into adults in these decisions, it will harm the children. There are psychiatrists who say that it is really good that we have not proposed a maturity assessment for minors, because if, for example, we are going to have children with children who are under-age. is one of the so-called Panodil girls, how can one be mature enough to be able to decide on one's own affairs? So should you remove the child from the parents and underage someone? There we actually think it is much better to maintain that parental responsibility can sometimes be heavy. But then there's this valve that you can say no, and then there's others that help carry it. So I actually think this bill has landed really well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103828	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103830	It is quite true that some of them are mainly concerned, for example. 14-year-old girls who try suicide, or 14-year-old girls who have an eating disorder. And it is particularly the group that is being subjected to massive coercion. What this is all about is not whether they should have the treatment that is necessary. I think that is important to emphasise. But it's about whether that girl should have an opportunity to complain and an opportunity to get a appointed patient counselor. There are many people you can listen to in this context. The Socialist rapporteur mentions some of the psychiatrists who have been involved in the debate. I think it is important to emphasise that the Children's Council and the organisations representing the relatives, namely Better Psychiatric and SIND, as well as the government's own psychiatry committee all point out that they think it would be much better if the children had the rights described in the Psychiatry Act. And I really think it is rather remarkable that it has been chosen to ignore the recommendation of the government's own psychiatry committee in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226103927	Well, the government set up a committee to look at it. The fact that it will then become the government's own psychiatry committee, and that they have thereby made a list of what the government should think, is not the way the reality is put together. I am talking about children, I am talking about children's equal rights, whether they are being treated in the somatics or elsewhere. Then I know that there are some other age criteria in the Service Act, but I do think it is important that we, as politicians, take on the responsibility that children are children and that there are also some age levels that are important. Nor am I in favour of reducing the age of criminals, precisely because I think children are children, and I think they are, in relation to whether they should have independent rights of complaint in psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104010	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104013	Thank you. The rapporteur says that parents will not be deprived of parental responsibility. There it has been decided that you always use the Psychiatry Act. Every time it is professionals who judge whether a child should be subjected to coercion. Every time you spare the parents because you don't want the parents to go in and act as professionals, but that they should be allowed to be parents. Does the rapporteur think that this is an expression of the failure of the Kolding Children's and Young People's Psychiatry to take parental responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104101	I believe that this is at least an expression of the fact that we have had legislation that has not provided clear guidelines on how treatment staff should act in the specific case. And I believe that the draft law that we are discussing today now provides clear guidelines, but it also provides clear protection for parents if parents say that, in the specific situation, they do not think they can bear that responsibility. Then there's another situation. In fact, I think it is very good that there is a legal basis for how parents should act in the health care of children under the age of 15, whether it is a cancerous child, where recommendations are made. It must also be incredibly difficult to decide whether a child should undergo serious chemotherapy, which is not known in advance either whether it works or whether it should be accepted that his or her child, who is dying of malnutrition due to eating disorders, should receive a different treatment. I think it is important to point out that parents are a co-player in a child's treatment, and that responsibility should be given to the medical staff and the rest of us to help them positively on their way to bear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104204	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104206	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Parents are a huge resource and a huge co-player. That is also why we need to look after them. That is also why we should not put them in some situations where the child directs the anger against the parents, because it is the mother or father who has decided that the child should be strapped into a bed with a belt. It's to protect them. It's to take care of them so they can be allowed to be parents. Now the rapporteur is talking about the same legal basis. After all, in the Service Act, children who are placed can be allowed to complain from the age of 12. Then I would like to hear: why does the rapporteur think that children should have that right, but that children aged 12 who are being put on a belt should not be allowed to complain? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104249	There may be many differences, but the comparison I made was within the scope of the Health Act. I also mentioned that there are other levels of age in other legislation. It has also been part of the debate whether we should look at those age levels, and there we have chosen together, most parties, to say that we follow the age of somatics in psychiatry. So it's a choice we've made. And I firmly believe that this will be a very, very great strengthening of the legal position of both children and parents, because there will now be clear rules in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104319	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Liselott Blix as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104328	Yes, I have brought the bill up here, and I have looked at that in the last few days because I had to make a speech for today, but I have to say that I have not written that speech because I find it difficult to stand and praise the proposal, even if we say yes to the proposal. Because we have been dealing with this for a long time now, for over a year, I think for 11⁄2-2 years, when we have held many meetings and discussed many of the things that are included in the legislation. I think it is difficult when it comes to people who have to be forced to stand and say: now we are very pleased that we are about to adopt a legislative proposal which is now preventing minors from having some rights. We are demanding how we can search the homes of psychiatric patients; how we can tighten the criteria for the use of coercion, etc. I cannot put any good words on that, because I believe more that one day we will have a legislative proposal that says that we are now going in and doing something for citizens with mental problems before they reach the point where they are hospitalized and need coercion. I believe that one day we will see that there will have to be a completely different legislation so that in the immediate environment we will be able to pick up and help those citizens who would otherwise come out so far that we would have to legislate on it. I know we have taken one small step at a time, and this is, of course, also a step on the way to making it better for some groups, and we have set aside money for investment pool projects to have 24-7 units around the municipalities; there must be solutions that enable the municipality to react when you see that some people are going into a crisis, but they are only projects. After all, this is not legislation that will be future-proof, because many times we may not know enough about it. In section 71 the supervisory authority visited Trieste, where we just saw how those who could avoid having psychiatry beds; where in the community they had a centre to which you came when you were ill, and you could come 24 hours a day, all week days; where there were psychiatrists and psychologists, employment therapists, social workers, etc., and very often they went home to the citizen's own home and helped get relatives involved. It is such a dream for the future that I have about psychiatry: that you see what we saw, namely that beds were empty and, as we know, the court psychiatric beds were of course not in the area, they were somewhere else. But the main thing is that those down there had a different approach to mentally ill than the one we have and have had in Denmark, but the ship we are working with the psychiatrist is turning together. As I said, we've been working on this bill for a long time, and there are knots. We were lucky to remove the pharmaceutical legislation from the proposal, because there were too many challenges, compared to what was best to do. Unfortunately, we have seen some deaths in psychiatry, where people have been pumped with medicines that they have not been able to tolerate. However, we have also received many input from psychiatrists; some say that they want a different piece of legislation, while others say that the legislation that is now is good enough, because if you get a medicine that doesn't work, it doesn't just have to be puffed up even more. We listened to that, the Minister listened to it, and fortunately it was pulled out of the bill. Then we hope that the medicine now being given can be given in a little less words and under a little more professional skills. There are other things with which we have compromised, and there has already been a little debate on one thing: the rights of minors. It may be that we are tabling an amendment to the draft law. The Minister knows that we have agreed to what is in place, but that does not mean that we are satisfied with everything that is in place where we look at the child's legal position when it is less than 15 years old. I believe, as some other rapporteur has said, that sometimes both children and parents may be let down by allowing parents to take a stand. The fact that two parents may disagree on what is best for their child, I do not think it can be compared with the fact that a child should have cancer treatment, because cancer treatment would be similar to the medicine given during hospitalization in the psychiatric ward. I remember when my boy was 11⁄2 years old, he was admitted to a somatic ward and had to drop, and there the staff said to me: He must be restrained to put the drop, and do you want to stay in the room, or do you want to go out because it meant something to how your child looks at you afterwards? Then the relatives were involved so that they could make a choice and stand by what they had done. There are many parents here who do not know that they can say that they will not decide and that it is the psychiatric law that comes in. So there are far too many places where you don't know enough about it and maybe you don't get it explained enough to the parents, and that's why we should be sharper when it comes to what it's like for children under the age of 15. I would like to say that I should not be the one reading from or referring to conventions, but I know that many other rapporteurs are very much in favour of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and there perhaps we should go in and read what they are writing, because they write a lot about the rights that should apply to children.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104949	There is a brief comment. Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226104952	Well, it is actually a receipt that Mrs Liselott Blixt also brings with her the prevention, because that is something that is incredibly important. The bill we are discussing here today is so much about the psychiatry that is in the area of health care, but it would be good if there were fewer people in health care. So thank you for the fact that it is, as it were, spoken out that the municipalities also have a share of responsibility for the well-being of the citizens and that we are at the forefront of this, but also that there is cooperation between outpatient treatment, municipal treatment and hospitalised health care. I would also like to sign for the comparison made by Mrs Liselott Blixt to her own life and son. I believe that this is the choice that can actually be given to parents with the legislative proposal that exists today. As to whether it should then be clarified in a report and a guide, it is a good thing that this example might give inspiration for the Minister to do so in a different educational way than might otherwise have been envisaged.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226105056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226105057	Well, thank you. We are working closely together in this particular area, the rapporteur and I. I think it would be very good if we could clarify a little more in the report what information it is that parents should have before resorting to coercion, so that they are thoroughly informed about the law they are subject to and what rights they give to the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226105122	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, the Radicals, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226105133	Thank you. I would also like to start by saying that I certainly think that the proposal we are debating today, and in general the area we are moving on, is difficult and certainly not uncomplex, and so I would really like to thank you for the good things that I think have been said up here from various rapporteurs in their review of the content. The Radical Left can support the proposal we are debating today. We believe that this is a proposal that contributes in several ways to creating a better and clearer legal basis for our psychiatry, and we also believe that it is not least a proposal that takes some good steps on the way to improving the work that is going on around in terms of reducing the use of coercion. As several rapporteurs have pointed out, the draft law is based on some points of impact, all of which are important and important, even though they are far from all of them either easy or uncomplex to take a position on, and in several of the points of impact of the proposal there are many considerations that need to be balanced against each other. That is also why, as several rapporteurs have said, what has been a rather long and difficult process. But first of all, the bill guarantees this purpose clause. It is good because, like once and for all, you get knocked down that the purpose of our psychiatry, or the treatment taking place in psychiatry, is to ensure respect for the individual. It is to ensure self-determination for the individual patient. I really think it is an important signal to send out that we are determined to create clear values in this part of our treatment system. Secondly, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned, the draft law also provides for the legal status of under-age psychiatric patients, so that this will now be made explicit, and this means, for example, that the 15-17-year-olds will now also be given the opportunity to complain under the psychiatric law and be offered patient advice, etc. Then there is the great point of discussion that I can feel affecting us all very much and which is also something that we have discussed a great deal, namely this with children under the age of 15, and that parents can choose to consent on behalf of the child, because it is a choice that parents have to make, and otherwise the child has rights under the Psychiatry Act. I think it is really difficult because it is three different considerations that need to be balanced against each other, a medical concern, a parental responsibility and then the consideration of a child's individual rights, which we are dealing with in very many areas and want to ensure. That is why I think that some of the things and these choices, etc. that Mrs Liselott Blixt spoke about from up here, are interesting and can be clarified better for parents and, in fact, for children as well. Otherwise, and we in the Radical Left think it is a good thing that these pre-emptive statements from patients should be strengthened and that the possibility of discussing the situations where coercion can be called for should also be ensured here, just as we think it is a good thing that the draft law strengthens the supervision of forced fixation and that it is also stated in the draft law that it is something that is applied briefly, in other words a few hours. It also fits well into the objective that we all have in common, namely that we want to halve the number of forced fixations by 2020. In addition, as several rapporteurs have said, there is also the enhanced or extended opportunity to control mail and patients' belongings and also to expand the possibilities of body searching. It is clear that this is also a place where essential considerations are balanced against each other, because, of course, here too there is the legal certainty of the individual patient and, on the other hand, such a broader regard for the safety and safety of the individual patient, but also, of course, the safety and safety of the patient. However, we support the proposal because it is important to take action in relation to restricting drugs and dangerous objects, and we hope that this will help to strengthen both the security and security of psychiatric departments. Last but not least, there is this proposal for compulsory follow-up after printing, and we think that this is in line with the idea of a complete patient progression, and we can support that as well. So, although this is difficult and complex, the Radical Left can, overall, support the bill and we look forward to working on it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226105714	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226105735	I'd like to give my speech. I just don't know if the minister's listening or if I have to wait until they're done down there. Just talk). Good. Today we are going to deal with this law on force, the purpose of which is to halve the number of belt fixings. It is actually a pretty big day, because it is a recognition that the parties of the Folketing believe that belt fixing is not a good thing in the order of magnitude that we have seen. There are clearly people who need us to look after them, but what has been seen so far has been extremely worrying about the fact that year after year we have been criticised for our use of coercion, which is unfortunately also increasing. So it is really, really positive that another culture is now being set up. There are some things in this bill that I would really like to highlight as extremely positive. Today there are over a million Danes who are relatives of the mentally ill. It's a huge resource, it's a huge strength for the mentally ill. Unfortunately, we do not use the relatives as a huge resource in psychiatry at all. That's why this bill proposes that there should now be a systematic use of relatives as a resource. This means asking the mentally ill person whether he or she would like his or her relatives to be involved, so that we remember to ask each and every time. The second point I would like to highlight is pre-emptive statements. You ask the mentally ill yourself: What are we going to do in a situation where you actually get insecure and feel bad? How do you think we should handle this? It's gonna be mandatory now, too. Because we know that the places where it has been done have an effect in terms of preventing coercion. One of the most important things is that now the Psychiatry Act will contain a purpose clause. So far, it has been the case that the Psychiatry Act has described how to impose, forcibly restrain and coercive drugs, but the purpose of psychiatric treatment is not coercive, is it? The purpose of psychiatric treatment is that people can recover, that they can recover, or that they can learn to live with their disease. That is why I think it is extremely positive that we have introduced a paragraph of purpose. I also think it is very good that there will now be better supervision of belt fixings, especially long-term belt fixings. It is not a secret that we on the part of the SF would have liked to have seen all long-term belt fixings of over 48 hours going in and saying that there was an external authority to approve it. Then I would like to acknowledge that the Ministry and the Minister have listened to the fact that the alternative to belt fixings is not medicine. It's not medicine anymore. It was actually the original play. I am incredibly glad that it is, among other things. I have succeeded in getting it out that we are not now opening a barn gate so you can give people so much medicine that they actually end up dying of it. Then there are some things that I am not so fond of and that I think the Minister should listen to. I hope the Minister shares the bill. There is a part of the proposal that says that it must now be possible to have up-to-date fixation of people on Security. We have been against this at the time, and that is why I hope that the Minister will share the proposal. I also believe that what is called outpatient coercion is part of a settlement. There is a disagreement about that. We need to discuss this further. I do not think that should continue. Then there is the whole child's part about children's rights. The good thing about the bill itself is that we are now going to register everything, both through the Psychiatry Act and when the parents have allowed it. Everything that children are subjected to in the form of force and coercion will be recorded so that we get an overview of it. The second good thing is that all children and parents are entitled to a post-conference when they have been subjected to coercion. The less good thing is that children cannot complain if they are under the age of 15 and parents have actually allowed some form of forced treatment, for example. belt fixing. Basically, I believe that it is not the parents' responsibility to decide whether a child should be in a belt, whether a child should be groomed, whether a child should have a pill. It is a medical assessment that you have actually taken on your shoulders at the children's and youth psychiatric ward in Kolding. I really think we should be careful not to put parents in an incredibly difficult situation, because they are already extremely vulnerable; that we do not destroy the relationship between children and parents; that the anger these children sometimes have is not directed at this mother or father who has allowed the child to be fixed in a bed, that the child should be probe-made, that is, that the child should be subjected to some form of coercion. That is why I hope that, in some way, we can look further into how we can safeguard children's rights in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110310	Thank you. Mrs Jane Heitmann for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110313	Thank you. I would like to say from the outset that I share the rapporteur's concerns about parents, about children and about the problems that may arise from the use of force. I also think, like the rapporteur, that it is very good that there should be this opportunity for a post-conversation, because I think it is important to put into words the feelings you have. Now I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur has previously asked about this very point, namely whether it is the parents who should make the decision about the use of coercion or whether it should not be the parents. I would just like to read a brief sequence from the bill here, which says: 'In addition, it is clear that the holder of the custody must be informed that he has the opportunity to renounce his position on the use of force against the minor. Will the rapporteur confirm that parents have the opportunity to renounce responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110415	Yeah, that's exactly the problem. In other words, the law is today such that parents have parental responsibility and can actually decide what treatment the child should receive. If there is a disagreement, or if the parents themselves say no, then the Psychiatry Act goes ahead, and then it is the one that is being dealt with. My business is: Why put parents in that situation at all? Well, there may also be a situation where there's a mother and a father saying, "Hey, listen, we don't want this treatment." And what do you do there? That is also why I think it should generally be the Psychiatry Act and always the Psychiatry Act that should apply. I have worked in a child- and youth-psychiatric ward, and there it was that some of the parents also said: you ask me, but what if I say no? What's up? Then somebody else will do it. It is also some form of false security. Why is it possible to do so in the Psychiatry Department in Kolding, where it is said that it is the Psychiatry Act that applies? I just don't understand. So, we are not saying that parents should be sent out of the game; we are saying that they should still be taken away, and that is child- and youth-psychiatric departments in Denmark, by the way, formidable to do. They're really, really good at involving the parents. So my concern is not at all whether they are being sidetracked now. I just want them to be allowed to be parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110543	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110545	Does the rapporteur agree with the assumption that parents can choose to take that responsibility and that they can also choose to say no?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110553	Yes, because that is already the case today, and that is also what we require with regard to the law. The problem is, first of all, that parents do not always think they can say no to this. That is one problem. The second is that they have to decide whether or not to take that responsibility. I do not think it is fair to put them in that position. I think it should basically be the case that when they go to a department, they're parents, they're not nurses, they're not doctors, they're not psychologists. They should concentrate on being parents; I think that is insanely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110629	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226110636	People with serious mental disorders have the right to be able to manage their lives and the treatment they receive from health care as far as possible. And the goal of the treatment that we offer must be that people who have a serious mental illness can recover and can live a good life. There is still some way to go for us to be there in today's Denmark, but in recent years important steps have been taken. Psychiatry has received attention with a psychiatry committee and with an action plan. Money from both finance and investment pools has been followed up, initiatives have been taken to ensure that both buildings and working methods are more up-to-date and that those with mental disorders are more at the centre. Today it is an update of the psychiatry law that is on the agenda. And that is very important because it regulates how everyday life in the psychiatric wards is actually going on. The law sets a framework for some of the things that are most reproached and most hated and controversial in psychiatry, namely that one can resort to coercion. It is the goal of Enhedslisten that we get rid of compulsion in psychiatry and that in the long term we will be able to develop methods that can prevent and manage people with mental and conflict situations as a result of it and which make the coercion unnecessary. Some may think that this sounds too good to be true, but it is actually no more utopian than that we already know about psychiatric departments, know about centres that have come really, really far and in some places have almost got rid of the compulsion. Last week, for example, it was possible to do so. read in Politiken about the Psychiatric Center in Ballerup, which is well on its way to becoming completely belt-free. They themselves talk about a marked change in culture, a marked change in culture in the approach to when to use coercion. The many breakthrough projects that many departments across the country have been involved in also show promising results in terms of reducing the use of coercion. It is actually possible to get there, and it is a really, really nice job that has been done. What is important to me is that the legislation we are discussing here today supports that development can continue and that we get closer to the goal of getting rid of coercion. I think there are good tactics in the bill, even if it does not go quite as far as we would have liked. However, it is certainly a step forward that the staff of a psychiatric unit are now obliged to obtain a prior statement from patients on how to be treated when, for example, one wants to be treated. is anxiety, psychotic or otherwise needs help from the staff. It can prevent coercion, and it can reduce the conflicts that may otherwise arise. It is also very important that the draft law emphasises that staff have a duty to ensure that discussions are held on how relatives are involved in the treatment. We would have liked there to have been a slightly tighter commitment in this area, but it is very good that relatives are included in the legislation. An important part of today's debate has, of course, been about the rights of children and young people, and it is also a very important theme for me. Here is some clear progress, for example. that in future child coercion must be registered and that children and parents are entitled to a post-conference. Those opportunities were available until 2006, but they fell away at the time when the Psychology Act was amended. Those opportunities are coming back now. That's a good thing. At the same time, I must stress that it is my view that it is not enough. I believe that children and young people, as before 2006, should be given the opportunity to complain, should be given the opportunity to obtain a qualified patient counsellor when they are subjected to coercion. It's the children's rights that are at the heart of this context. I think we should listen to the urgent call that comes from, for example. The Children's Council and from SIND and Improved Psychiatry, which represents the parents, and indeed also from the government's own psychiatry committee, who writes that they want to ensure that children are covered by the provisions of the Psychiatry Act and, for example, that children are given legal status in relation to the Psychiatry Act. have access to justice. In fact, I think it is a little bit • what should be said to include half the truth when one can read in the comments on the bill that reference is made to the wishes of the Psychiatry Committee and the request for a more clear legal position, but that one does not include the part that concerns what it was that was actually intended by the Psychiatry Committee. It's not written in. Better Psychiatry and SIND represent among others. the parents. We have discussed them a great deal here today. They strongly appeal for this opportunity for children to complain and for children to have a appointed advisor. And they describe situations that I think people who haven't experienced the kind of coercion you use have a hard time getting acquainted with. That is, for example, the case. Young girls who are severely affected by anorexia, which is maintained very, very violently, get a probe down their throats and are forced-fed. The organizations tell about families falling apart under the weight of deciding whether to be coerced or not to be coerced. We believe that it should be a medical assessment, when coercion is used, and not a question for parents to decide. We would like to continue working on this part of the proposal, and of course we would very much like to do so in cooperation with other parties that want it. I should just like to say something quite briefly to some of the other points of the draft law, and I shall be very brief. In relation to forced fixation: we would like to see it go further, but we can support what lies there. In relation to up-to-date fixation and out-patient coercion: we do not support this, nor have we done so in the past. We can therefore support a proposal to divide the legislative proposal in relation to the two themes. Finally, in relation to the study of post, etc.: I think it is very important that the patient can complain. This is also the case today in the consultation note. It is also written in the consultation note that this will be added in the comments. I've been looking and looking for it, but I can't find it. I think it is important that we get it in, so it is quite clear to everyone that you can complain about an investigation of mail and of the patient's belongings, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226111301	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226111304	I understand that the rapporteur is fully in line with what I said earlier about the concern for children and that we have a special responsibility with regard to children. At any rate, I can hear the rapporteur expressing this point too. I share that wish too. I am surprised that the rapporteur here takes the view that this should be a purely medical assessment. In my optics, it is very important to maintain the dialogue between health professionals and parents. Now the rapporteur asked earlier about the position of the Left, for example. parent involvement, and I have explained this, so I do not need to do it again, but would the rapporteur not confirm that there is in fact the possibility that parents may refrain from taking a position and, if they refuse to take a position, is there really a possibility that children may have a patient counsellor and that there are also remedies?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226111409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226111413	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, the most important thing for me is the rights of the child, and whatever opportunities parents have to take a position or not, the fact that it is the parents who decide that they decide what rights the child has in this context. Force is very intrusive. There is nowhere else in health care at the same level. It is nowhere else that one can thus go against a person's will; fasten it, put a probe into his stomach and force-feed it. It is extremely offensive and extremely cross-border for everyone, whether you are 14 years or 15 years old. You must have an opportunity to complain, and you must have the opportunity to have a counselor with you, no matter what your parents think. That is my position. It does not help the children that parents can disclaim responsibility, because then it is precisely the parents who have the rights and not the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226111509	Mrs. Jane Heitmann? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then I would like to thank the rapporteur, and then it is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226111525	Personal freedom is at the heart of me as a liberal and, of course, I think it should be a guiding principle in Danish society too, but there are people who may be so ill that, for their own sakes, you have to subject them to other forms of treatment and also coercion, but we must reduce the use of coercion and minimise the use of coercion as much as possible. I do not know whether I share Mrs Brix's optimism 100%, namely that we can get to the completely non-forced treatment system, but we can at least work to reduce it as much as possible. The proposal before us today is a proposal that strengthens patients' rights. It is a proposal that increases patient involvement. I am very excited about this preview, which is something we will be working on much more and not only here, but in a large number of areas, that is, that the citizen can make sure what happens when you get into a different situation. It may be if you have to undergo forced treatment; it may be if you are demented; there may be other situations where it is good that you can be involved in advance on how to be treated when and if you get into such a situation. Then there has been a lot of focus on the discussion about children, where the question of what is medical responsibility, what is parents' responsibility and what is children's rights as patients, meets each other in different ways, and of course creates some dilemmas and conflicts that we have to deal with. In fact, I think that has been tried to do with the proposal that lies here. In fact, I think that we have tried to take account of children, parents and the medical profession. However, there have been a number of objections. I think it is perhaps the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Karen J. Klint, who has made the best proposal on how we can move forward, namely that we can look at whether we can jointly produce a report in which we clarify what has been the intention of this proposal, so that we have precisely balanced the three things properly in relation to each other. However, the Liberal Alliance's position on the proposal as such is that we are positive and intend to vote in favour of the proposal, but that, of course, we want to help clarify it in the direction that the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226111832	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226111850	May I not begin by complaining to the President and to the Parliament that I came too late not least to the rapporteur of the Left, who was, moreover, at the time I came in, to make an absolutely excellent speech, which is why I am actually annoyed, also for the reason that I was not there from the beginning of the debate. I think, and it is my fundamental view, that all of us, and not least those of us who are ministers, owe Parliament the utmost respect, not least in our presence in the course of the readings that there is. So I'm sorry. Having said that, I would like to say, as other rapporteurs have said, that this is a very, very good day as far as the proposal we have before us is concerned. This means that we are going to deal with a legislative proposal that will lead to less coercion in psychiatry and that will support respect for the rights of psychiatric patients and their ability to self-determination. The proposal has been a long time in the process, it has been said. And that is also true, but it is also because there has been what I myself see as a good dialogue and process with the parties of the Danish Parliament, where along the way we have crossed positions and fillet some edges off and found out if we could find out together in the proposal that is now before us. Everyone's had to give, everyone's had to take. That is also why I consider the legislative proposal that we have before us today to be a package and that I will not be able to recommend amendments to the proposal as it stands here. It is possible that a report can be drawn up, I cannot say that, but I believe that the amendments are not in the way we have dealt with the proposal that is before us. That is why, of course, I also hope that, in respect of the process that has taken place, all parties will help to carry through this important proposal, which means better conditions, better rights for some of those who need it in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226112125	Then I thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226112154	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until next Tuesday, 10 March 2015. Mrs Liselott Blixt has the floor as rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution to explain the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226112214	On Wednesday, October 29, last year, DR 2 sent a program on the bustle of three of the capital's hospitals. It showed a hurry in some hospitals which, unfortunately, could cause the death or disability of infants after birth. It was a touching broadcast that showed an incredible number of reactions to prospective parents. It became parents in grief and anxiety rather than a happy experience for the little family. One saw how midwives stressed around from one giving birth to the other, and how the birthers were sent around from one hospital to another. I thought: is this the kind of health care that we should have in Denmark and that we should be proud of? Could it be that at a time when we are doing everything we can to get women to become pregnant and to choose children, while we are providing fertility treatment, we cannot offer them a better offer when they are finally going to have their baby? In the past, over the last few years, we have debated in this Chamber the recommendations of the Danish Health Service, which should and should be followed in all regions. That is why I have now put the question to the Minister for Health, so that we can once again focus on ensuring that women who are born are properly and safely born when they are expecting their child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226112351	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it is the Minister for answering the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226112400	Thank you to the author, first of all, for putting births on today's agenda. The reason why we are debating this is that from time to time the questioner himself mentioned a television broadcast... has been a part of the mention that midwives experience that they are busy when they are at work, so busy that they may find it difficult to take good care of the women who are giving birth and their partners as well as they would like. The main players in this debate are the woman who comes into the hospital with contractions and is about to give birth to a child, and then, of course, the little child who is going to come into the world. The most important thing for the pregnant woman is that she and her partner can feel safe knowing that they are well taken care of during childbirth. That is why I would like to start by stating that everyone who is pregnant must of course be able to feel completely safe about having to give birth at one of the birthplaces we have in this country. All future parents should know that they get the necessary support and treatment from midwives, from doctors, from other staff along the way. Do not be in any doubt that patient safety is in order and that it will not be lost even if there is a hurry. This is of course also why the government, together with the SF and Enhedslisten, has prioritised the birth area in the financial law of the year. We have set aside 35 million. kr. This year and 75 million. kr. for next year to a permanent increase in the quality of the feeding routes. That is why I also welcome the debate on how to spend the money in the best possible way. Let me outline what has happened in the last few years. The starting point for the treatment of pregnant and giving birth in Denmark is a number of recommendations from the Danish Health Authority, the 12 chapters presented in the recommendations for svangroomsorgen. They provide the framework for which offers the regions and the municipalities are, after all, the ones responsible for organising the svangroomsorgen should give the pregnant woman and her partner during the pregnancy to the birth itself and during the maternity period. I would like to point out some trends in the field of telecommunications, which may explain some of the busyness involved. It has been emphasized both by Danske Regionser, the midwife association and the Danish Health Authority that there have been some changes in the field of birth over the past few years, and that is true. We can see that there has been a change in the case of women who are born. All other things being equal, there are more elderly people who give birth; there are more who are overweight; there are more with chronic disease; and there are more who have become pregnant through artificial fertilization. This has led to some changes in the conditions surrounding the birth itself, among others. with several start-ups, several complicated births where, for example, there are Suction cups are used along the way, and shorter hospitalizations at the maternity hall. Places of birth have been assembled and have become more specialised, so today there are 24 birthplaces in the country. I would also like to emphasise that many different initiatives have been taken to strengthen the field of birth and increase patient safety. In particular, a number of new professional recommendations have been made in this area. New recommendations have been made by the scientific company in the field, the Danish Society for Obstetrik and Gynekology. It was the company that recommended in 2011 to set births in motion earlier, and this has meant that today we can see a reduced number of children dying before birth. In 2013, the Danish Health Authority prepared a plan for monitoring and supervising the use of medicine by birthplaces to initiate births. It must support both the right level of births that are being started and, at the same time, strengthen the security and safety of those who are giving birth. 2013 was also the year when the Danish Health Authority updated its recommendations on maternity care so that both hospitals and home municipalities can better take into account the shorter hospitalization times we have today. The recommendations have, for example, been made. This meant that today the health care provider makes an earlier visit to the home after the family has been discharged. During the visit, the healthcare professional must follow up both the condition and well-being of the child and mother and prevent the need for re-housing the newborn child. Finally, I would like to highlight the quality project • Safe births • which is also intended to reduce the number of children receiving too little oxygen during birth. Both the midwife association and Danske Regions point out that it is a project that has shown good results. So a great deal has happened in this area within a few years. This reflects developments both professionally and organisationally. And development is, of course, one of the basic conditions of health care that it is constantly moving. That is also how it should be, including in the field of birth. In order to give a little relief to developments, the regions have indicated that the number of midwives in the maternity wards has increased by 34 per cent. equivalent to 259 full-time jobs over the last 5 years. As politicians, we must, of course, follow the area from the sidelines and ensure that the framework of health care still ensures that all development also leads to good results, in this case good births. And we know something about basically what it takes to make a birth a positive experience. We know that there are a number of advantages in the fact that the pregnant woman has a midwife or another caregiver present with her during childbirth. The risk that the woman will need medication to take pain falls; the chance that the birth is spontaneous, i. e. without intervention, increases; and the birthing woman is generally more satisfied with the birth. There is good evidence of this. I think it is appropriate to take this debate, both on the basis of the reference that has been made, but also on the basis of the many initiatives that have been taken, and on the basis of the development in the number of births that have been over recent years and the resources available to deal with these births. That is why I look forward to the debate. I think it is important that we in the Danish Parliament deal with the area, and I think it is important that, as we have done with the most recent Finance Act, we keep up with the situation where it says so. I think it is fundamental that we should welcome the fact that we have chosen to say here that we as a society would like to provide an extra effort, here we would like to do a little better for those who are going to give birth, so that it can be the safe and good experience that it should be and not just have said it, but also set aside extra money to actually do so over the coming years. Thank you, and very good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226113117	Thank you, Minister. Then we start the debate and the first is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226113132	Thank you for your reply. In relation to the treatment, I would say that being born, having a child, should be one of the best experiences a woman can have, most times with a partner, who rejoices just as much when you have to have a family or increased the one you have. It was supposed to be this intense and often painful, but at the same time happy and sometimes lovely experience. But unfortunately it has scarred the soul of some. It may be a child who is born with injuries or unfortunately dies at birth. Here we do not need to see the kind of stress and the move around giving birth to nervous women who are afraid of the busyness they see in the maternity ward. It's propagating. I was sitting with tears in my eyes watching that broadcast and wondering how horrible it was for the people who experienced it here too for the staff, the staff who must daily meet fearful and nervous parents who do not know what is happening or who are told to move them to another hospital. I have therefore put a number of questions to the Minister, and I did so on the basis that the region went out and shot it down very condescendingly and said that there are, after all, many more midwives employed now than there has ever been before. The Minister has responded well to this in his reply by saying that they have been given a number of other tasks. The answers given by the Minister to the questions I asked have been commented on by the Midwives' Association, which does not agree with all the answers. So they'll just smoke over to the minister again so we can have a look at them and maybe summarize what a midwife is doing today. Because, as the Minister also mentioned, there are much greater complications for women who are going to give birth today. They're waiting too long. Now get to work while you're young! Well, we could start by saying that. The Minister says no to this, but yes, they must have children while they are young, so we can have some more children, and so it will also be an easier and more enjoyable experience for those people. We don't want misdirection. We've got plenty of that, haven't we? That is why I think it is important that we take up the comments of the Mothers' Association on the Minister's replies and, for example, on the question of women's rights. Looking at what a midwife is doing today. There are many consultations after you have been released, even if you are not there for that long. There is this third day of blood testing, and there are re-housings of malnourished children where breast-feeding has not started. In fact, there are many things that make them have a lot to do, including in other departments. After all, it is not many days since we heard in the media that birthers are sent from one hospital to another because one is filled and one has no time for them. I hope the hospitals look at the resources they have. Are we doing far too large maternity wards gradually, so it has become a kind of factory where a midwife can easily take care of three giving birth women at once? It should be a little different. It should be the case that there are some midwives who go together, so they are three midwives about some people, and so it is always a well-known midwife who has the birthing. We also see in the Region of Zealand, which I would like to commend here, not because it is my own region, but because they have actually been able to give free elections to women. They have made arrangements with private individuals so that the birthers can go somewhere else, which is private, and where there is a midwife present during the whole birth. Or they could have homebirths. In fact, they are the region that has the most of them, and it works very well. For what matters, and we know this from all investigations, is that you have peace and peace and trust in the person who is your midwife. This was also why the Danish Health Authority made a number of recommendations some years ago. It is precisely important that this happens in safe conditions: knowing the midwife, creating an atmosphere and allowing the parent couple to relax and give each other strength and thereby giving women easier birth and giving birth to a healthy and healthy child. I visited the Region of Zealand the other day and, as I said before, I think it is worth looking at the region for other regions. We are very pleased in the Danish People's Party that we are now getting the focus on it and that in a broad conciliation we have helped to put forward a proposal for adoption. I would also like to say that we have voted in favour of the funding provided for in the Finance Act, although I think we might have started with some more money already now. It's always like that. It is a little long to go and wait until the money is put into effect. However, the proposal for adoption, which has the support of the Left, the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Radical, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Conservatives, reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The parties of the Danish Parliament agree that everyone giving birth should have as good a birth experience as possible. This means, among other things, that the health service's efforts towards parents and newborns must follow the recommendations of the Danish Health Service on svangroomsorgen. The Danish Parliament notes that the Finance Act for 2015 provides for 35 million. kr. in 2015 and 75 million; kr. Annually from 2016 to a boost in the quality of the maternity wards. The funds will be used for a strengthened effort, including increased staff and initiatives that meet the Danish Health Authority's recommendations in relation to svangroomsorg. Parliament also calls, in the light of the debate that has taken place, for the midwives to be busy, for the funds to be used to ensure that safe conditions are created during and after birth, so that new families get the best possible start. The Danish Parliament invites the Minister to focus on the implementation of the funds in the regions and to follow the development of quality and to inform the Danish Parliament accordingly. • V 28).
ParlaMint-DK_20150226113840	Thank you. The motion for a resolution which Mrs Liselott Blixt has read out is, of course, part of the further negotiations. Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann as the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226113854	When a new man comes into the world, he must be safe and secure. Parents and children must both know and feel that they are in safe hands, and the staff must feel that they can deliver a safe start to a new life. A birth and a course of birth are very much about trust; trust in oneself, to one's loved ones, to the staff and to the system. But we must never forget to put man before the system. The Danish Health Authority has drawn up guidelines for svangroomsorg to ensure that women who are pregnant can feel safe. The recommendations were revised as late as 2013. The guidelines are designed to ensure that birthing in the country of birth is treated in the same good and professional way. There must be no difference, i.e. whether it is more or less safe to give birth somewhere in Denmark rather than another. That is why we in the Left also expect the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority to be complied with. There is a great deal of responsibility for the management of individual hospitals, and the individual regions have a great responsibility to comply with and comply with the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority. With the agreement on the financial law just concluded, funds have been set aside for the maternity departments for the next four years. The money must go to a boost in the quality of the maternity wards, as stated in the text of the agreement. And the funds must be used for a strengthened effort, including increased staff and initiatives that meet the Danish Health Authority's recommendations in relation to svangroomsorg. It is an initiative with a fine signal value. I am convinced that changes in the organisation of everyday life and increased focus on the challenges of the maternity departments by the managements could have a positive effect both for women who are born, for children and for staff. That is why we in the Left also have a clear expectation that the regions take their responsibilities seriously; that both regions and management listen to their employees and take seriously the challenges that are now in a busy working day. I understand that in the Capital Region, several births have already been moved from the Rigshospitalet to the other maternity wards of the region to ease the pressure at the Rigshospitalet, and I hope that priority will help the staff to a better everyday life and those who are born into a more secure birth experience. We have also sent out a clear signal in the past, as we in the Left have voted in favour of giving financial priority to the maternity departments through the Health Sub-Agreement in the Finance Act. Now it is up to the regions and the hospital managers to fulfil their responsibilities. I am pleased that the debate on compliance with the guidelines is being raised here in Parliament and the Left can support the proposed text for later adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114152	There is a brief comment from Mrs Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114156	Thank you. I also welcome the fact that the Finance Act allows us to allocate funds to improve the quality of the maternity services, and that is something we can do because we do not have zero growth. That brings me to the question: now that there was a funding source of 1.5 billion in the Left's draft budget. kr. from municipalities and regions where, for example, they wanted to re-open up. The rapporteur acknowledges that if the Liberals' draft budget had been adopted, it would mean that more than 360 million would have to be recovered. kr. in the region's health budget for 2015? And does the rapporteur recognise that it would therefore be of great importance for such an area as this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114257	In fact, I find it a little strange that the Socialist rapporteur in particular raises the issue of the economic priorities of health care, because everyone knows that we in the Left had given priority to health by one billion. kr. in 2015. And if I don't remember quite wrong, the Socialists would have given about half the priority to health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114319	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114322	Well, I would just like the rapporteur of the Left to take a look at the draft budget of the Left. Is it true that 1.5 billion will be collected in it? kr. in the budgets of the municipalities and regions and that what the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior has calculated is more than 360 million. kr. in the field of health in 2015. Is that right, or is it the wrong number? So, can the rapporteur of the Left confirm that it is the Finance Bill of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114358	I can very much confirm that the Left set aside 1 billion. kr. for health in 2015. We have put forward that proposal and we stand by it. Then we in the Left have also advocated a stop to expenditure, and that really means that you can buy the same thing tomorrow that you would be able to buy today if we had the keys to the Prime Minister's Office.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114421	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Julie Skovsby as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114442	Thank you. All children must have a safe start in life, and all parents must have as good an experience as possible with birth. It is a socialist priority to fight for equal opportunities for everyone in life. No one should be behind on points from birth, and it shouldn't start at all already in the delivery room. Many have probably seen DR2 Investigators sent in the autumn. The television broadcast was just about the bustle in the maternity wards, and the broadcast drew a picture of a very busy feeding process. But what is the situation in the Danish maternity wards? Well, if you ask the women who are giving birth, they're actually happy. In fact, the latest nationwide survey of the experience of women giving birth in the hospital showed that 91% of women were pregnant. of women have had a positive experience. When we have a debate like that today, it is also important to look at how the key figures have developed in the field of food. And here you can see that the number of midwives in the maternity wards in recent years has been increasing, while the number of births has generally been decreasing. More specifically, in the period 2009-2014 there has been an increase of 34 per cent. in the number of midwives in our maternity wards, or equivalent to 259 more full-time jobs in 5 years. And in recent years, as I said, the number of births has fallen from just over 63,000 births in 2007 to almost 55,000 births in 2013. Here it should be noted in parentheses that the Danish People's Party, together with the then VK government, has made sure to take due care when it comes to reducing the bustle in the country's maternity departments. It was these parties that jointly introduced user charges for fertility treatment some four years ago. It was a violent procedure, which meant that the number of births rattled down. The Danish Fertility Society has estimated that VKO's user fee meant that 900 fewer Danish children came into the world in 2011 than would otherwise have been the case. However, as one of its first deeds following the 2011 elections, the current government abolished VKO's user charges on fertility treatment, and now the birth rate is also on its way up again. So in this connection, this question debate is a pure confession, and said with a smile on its lips, yes, it is this government that, unlike the Danish People's Party and the Left, has helped to increase the urgency of the country's maternity departments. But we're not gonna run from the bill or throw it into the delivery room. That is why, a few months ago, we set aside funds in the budget negotiations to improve the quality of the country's maternity departments. More specifically, we have set 35 million. kr. of this year, and from next year it will rise to 75 million. kr. annual. In addition, we have taken a series of other initiatives that benefit women who are born and start-up families. We have started the project "Smart Births" which aims to halve the number of children receiving too little oxygen during birth. With the 2012-2015 rate pool agreement, we have set aside 18 million. kr. to strengthen the fight against exposed pregnant women, and in October last year we resulted in 24 million. kr. for ten projects to dress vulnerable future parents for the parent role. Finally, I would also like to highlight the 175 million. kr. which the government and the other parties behind the Finance Act for 2015 have set aside for a strengthened response to health care for children of vulnerable and vulnerable parents. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114907	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114911	Two things: I may have heard wrong, but I thought I heard the rapporteur say that the number of births is increasing. According to the last figures I've seen, 58,998 children were born in 2011 and 56,870 in 2014. However, the rapporteur can say what is correct. The rapporteur previously asked about the financial priorities of the Left. The Social Democrats promised before the elections 2 billion. kr. to the psychiatry, and that the psychiatry had to go to the Finance Act. I would just like to ask here when this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226114955	It is true that the number of births and the number of children is, fortunately, on their way up again and that it is beginning to grow so small. We think it is really important that we had this user fee removed from fertility treatment, and it is not only for the sake of knowing that there were fewer people who would have children because of this user fee, but it is also because, in principle, we do not think that there are people who should take their credit cards to pay for hospital treatment in the Danish hospitals. So for us, it was really important. So, in relation to the debate on the budget proposals: as I said, I think that what is being said by the Left is in stark contrast to the very concrete proposal put forward in this Chamber, which means that more than 360 million will be pulled. kr. from the health budgets of the regions... money that needs to be used for this particular area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115058	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115101	I do not wish to reject the possibility that I did not make myself clear when I asked earlier and that is why the rapporteur is not responding. I would just like to ask one more question: the Socialists promised before the elections that psychiatry should be given a priority of 2 billion. kr., and that the psychiatry should be placed on the Finance Act. When is this gonna happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115126	Psychiatry is an area that we have given priority to. I mean, I think it's like hearing the Left election manual or election manual, or whatever you call it in the Left, when I hear that question. I think that we should take a very specific view of the proposal that the Left has put forward in this Chamber in connection with their draft financial legislation, in which, in order to finance state action, money will be pulled out of the municipalities and regions. Unfortunately, I don't think we're getting any closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115159	It's sir. Jacob Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115206	Indeed, we can get a lot closer, because when the rapporteur is talking about pulling money out of municipalities and regions, it must be because the rapporteur has quite good experience with it. Because we can continue with the promise that Mrs Jane Heitmann also asked about. As you know, the Socialists promised 2 billion. kr. to the psychiatry. I have to say to Mrs Jane Heitmann's reply a moment ago that it is not a promise that the Social Democrats intend to honour. When the rapporteur says that the Left should withdraw money from the regions and municipalities, I just have to ask: how has the promise been made to the regions and municipalities, at least to the municipalities? I remember there was something like 12 billion. kr., I think it was in Fair Solution. That was very accurate: 12 billion. kr. there was a prospect of extra welfare in the municipalities. How'd it go with that promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115251	I can promise the questioner that I certainly have no experience of going in and reopening the budgets of the municipalities and regions in order to pull money out to fund state action. That is what the Left has proposed in their draft budget. One-and-a-half billion. kr. must be a source of funding in the Left's Finance Bill, and it is money that must be recovered by reopening the budgets of the municipalities and regions. You can say in this House that we are reopening the budgets to bring extra money, but imagine that they will be reopened in order to pull money out of the budgets! That is what the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior has calculated to be more than 360 million. kr. in the field of health. It will affect the maternity wards in 2015 to pull 360 million. kr. out of health? Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115349	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115353	Again, I note that I did not get an answer. In other words, we have now run from that promise quite specifically: 2 billion. kr. to the psychiatry. This is recognised by the Social Democrats: it was a promise we made and it is a breach of promise, because we cannot live up to it. Okay. Then the rapporteur says: we do not want to reopen the budgets of the municipalities in the social democracy, etc. No, you don't have to do that either, and neither have you, for you have taken the money into the economic agreement with the municipalities. That's where you've taken 1 billion. kr. out of their budgets over the last three years when they had been promised 12 billion. kr. kr. That is to take money out of the budgets, which should otherwise have gone to welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115429	What the Left is proposing in its draft budget is a historic break with what has been done in the past. We are proposing, and the Left must therefore also say so, that we should pull 1.5 billion. kr. from the budgets of the municipalities and regions to finance actions and wishes that the Left has at national level. We certainly have no experience of this. It is not socialist policy to do so, and neither will we. But the question is whether the Left will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115508	Mrs Liselott Blixt, briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115511	Now the rapporteur himself opened the ball by looking back, so we must do the same. After all, we must remember that the fertility treatment involved user charges for those who did not fail. We thought that health care is for the sick. But leave it alone. Then we can go inside and see what happens in the maternity wards. What is the reason why only now, following the pressure of Enhedslisten, has 35 million been set aside. kr. of this year, 31⁄2 years after there have been elections, where they said that all the beds in the hallways were going into the living rooms of the hospitals? What's going on? What happened in the maternity wards? It is that beds are closed down so that there is no room for people and staff are fired. Why has it only started now when you promised it just before the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115604	In other words, when it is said that fertility treatment is for those who do not have a problem, and that it is therefore possible to introduce user charges for this group of citizens who go to the hospital, I personally feel that being pregnant and having births in the hospital, which I myself have had, is not a disease either. But the question is, do you have to bring your dance card when you go to the hospital? That's what this group of citizens who got fertility treatment was supposed to do. I am worried if the Danish People's Party still takes the view that there are some patient groups to bring their dance cards to the hospital. Then it raises some completely new questions. Is this something that the Danish People's Party wants to reinstate?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115657	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115700	I would like answers to the question. Why do you keep laying down beds in hospitals when they are needed? And in relation to user charges, there has never been as much user charges as now in our hospitals where patients need to get the card. We've seen that. You have to bring food, you have to bring duvets, and you have to bring the map when you need a scan picture. We have seen it over and over again in the various regions. It is a little different from region to region. You've never had to have dancing up as much as you have now. It is as if you want to set something in motion, but you do not want to do it. In the same way, it is with investigation and cancer treatment. When you get out, you see there's nothing. Rehabilitation sites are being shut down. Cancer medicine and some other things are becoming more expensive for the individual. It doesn't add up. So where are the beds?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115750	Well, for me, there's a world different than me and my husband paid 20 kroner. for a scan picture and bought some lunch etc., when we have been to the hospital, and saw the introduction of user fees, which Dansk Folkeparti together with the Left and Conservatives did almost 4 years back on a type of treatment. As a Social Democrat, I must say that it should not be the case that you should take your credit card with you to pay for hospital treatment in the Danish hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115827	Then it is Mrs Stine Brix for the last brief remark this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115830	I will go back to the question debate on births. Now I understand that the Liberals' municipal rapporteur is off guard again, so we are not getting any more answers about what the Liberals really wanted, how they would actually deal with the fact that regions and municipalities should reopen their budgets and then find these 1.5 billion. kr. But we can take another question debate on that. I would like to return to the discussion on the funding for the birth area that we have set aside together in connection with the Finance Act. I think it is some means which fall in a dry place and which can help to raise the quality of the maternity wards. But one of the concerns I have is that right now we see that the regions are under strong pressure because the cost of medicines is growing and many regions are now starting to reopen their budgets and have to find savings. I would like to hear what the Socialists are thinking about, how we ensure that the funds we have allocated in the Finance Act to the maternity departments are actually going to the maternity departments as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226115930	In my view, it is very important that we take this dialogue with the regions and also with those actors who know a great deal about how things develop. After all, the Food Department is a place where there is a very rapid development and where things change. The Minister also mentioned how to see more complications, how the problems of women who are born have changed their character and how to face new challenges. The various recommendations are also constantly being changed. It can be something like a seatbirth that you now want to do, while earlier you just referred to doing a Caesarean section. It may have been a cheaper solution, but for me it may not always be the right solution. This is an area that is constantly evolving, so it will be so important that we have a dialogue with those who know exactly what is happening here in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226120036	Then it's Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226120039	The reason I ask is, of course, that we have had some common experiences in other contexts. When you place money on the budget law, it is not always that, for example, it is not always that. municipalities or regions then spend the money on the area in question. We saw it, for example. with the funds allocated to the day-care institutions for more educators. That is why I am concerned, especially now that the regions are in a very violent and serious situation, because the cost of medicines is going to explode to a degree so that this money never reaches the pregnant and the feeding as it should. So I would like to hear a little more about what the government is going to do in concrete terms to ensure that it is actually the case that this money is going to go to what is intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226120116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226120119	I totally agree. It is very important that this money is going to go to what is the purpose and what we want the money to be spent on. I also agree with what Enhedslisten points out, namely that the municipalities are also involved in this. In other words, it is really also about the interaction between municipalities and regions. Today, you are discharged from the hospital earlier, and then it is extremely important that municipal health care is ready and knows what a new task they have today compared to just a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226120152	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I'm here to postpone the meeting. It will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00 today with the radical rapporteur, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen. The meeting is suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226130017	The sitting is resumed. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226130029	Thank you. I regret the confusion, but it is also because I am giving this speech to the rapporteur on behalf of our health rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, who cannot be here for the debate. I do not think there can be any doubt in any of us that giving birth to a child for all women and, of course, for the fathers and relatives on the sidelines, is a life experience and an experience that sets fundamental tracks. Therefore, it is of course also crucial that our health care services do all they can to make this experience something positive and create security. It is clear that there are no births that are the same, and therefore the new life that comes into the world is not just routine, nor should it be routine, and it certainly is not for the expected parents. Of course, employees in maternity wards can be busy • I think that we all agree that it is a premise in the health care system, just as it is in other workplaces but they must of course never be so busy that it creates a negative food experience for the family who is in the midst of their life's greatest event. That was also why the government, together with Enhedslisten and SF, placed extra money on the Finance Act to raise the quality of the country's maternity departments, and I am very pleased that we are having this debate today. I am pleased that we are concentrating on focusing on the use of these funds and that we are also gathering together to monitor developments in the quality of the maternity wards in general. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226130217	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226130239	I would like to start by thanking you for the debate. It is always relevant to discuss such an issue as this in the Parliamentary Chamber, especially because we all have an interest that we can do as well as possible together for the women who are born, but also for the employees who work as midwives and maybe daily also in some way feel that their professionalism is being challenged by the fact that they cannot do the best for their patients. But that also applies to the safety of these children, so we're sure they'll get an optimal start to life. I very much agree with virtually everything that has been said, so I will not repeat it at all. We have also, together with the government, set aside some money on the Finance Act for this area. What I would like us to do together, perhaps to continue working on, was to find out how things stand in the regions. Because we hear about some of these challenges in one region, but I also think it might be interesting to look at how the distribution is in the other regions and also within the region. For example, is it... all hospitals in the capital region that have that problem, or are some specific hospitals that have that problem? And why do they have that problem? I have also sent a question to the Minister. The Minister does not know that yet, because it has just been sent, so I will not demand answers so quickly. It is a request for a statement to clarify the state of affairs in the country. Then I look forward to this money going out to work, but what I am also very concerned about is how we can be 100% sure that the money is actually going to it. I think we all have an interest in that, i.e. we're following this money. I have also been a social rapporteur and we are putting a lot of money into something, and then there will be no more than a few months, so the municipalities are talking about the fact that now there is no more money, and you are thinking: where did the money go, who was it that got this money? That is why I think it could be very interesting in a year's time, for example. to get an overview of the difference this money made. I look forward to the further work in committee and hope that together we can delve into these differences in the regions so that we can learn more about what this is all about. Is it only a question of lack of resources and hands, or is it also a question of how to organise? As a nurse, it is known that, for example, shift shifts are extremely hard and stressful, and you might be able to organize yourself out of such situations. But let us take the debate. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226130530	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226130536	I would also like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative in this question debate. For us there are no excuses whatsoever for compromising on the safety of maternity wards. It is extremely important, both for parents, but of course also for the child who comes into the world, that the child comes into the world safely and in a safe way, so that the experience does not scare the parents from trying one more time if they want to. That is why it was also an important objective for us to secure financial resources for the maternity services in this year's financial law negotiations. This is due to the extreme bustle and the lack of hands that the delivery routes are experiencing in these years. Mrs Liselott Blixt mentioned earlier the documentary that DR2 showed about the bustle of the maternity ward; it was an illustrative example of what that could mean. We have also seen a large number of midwives stand out in the daily press, some have also written discussion papers on how they experience daily life in the maternity walks. It seems to me that there is no doubt that there is a need. It is often pointed out in this debate that the number of midwives has increased over the last few years, and that is also true. However, I think it is very important to go a little behind those figures, because there are a number of very good reasons why the number of midwives has increased, even though there is still a lot of work to be done on the feeding route. One of the most important explanations is that in the past there was a very, very large shortage of midwives, and this meant that you could not fill many of the posts in the maternity wards • 30-50 per cent. Of the posts that were opened up, one could not fill. This meant that the use of temporary workers, temporary employment was very much used, and other professional groups were also used to cover where the midwives were otherwise the most optimal professional group to use. As a result, you set the figure for how many midwives you're educating, and that has made it possible to cover this hole. This is not, in fact, an example of the fact that there are several midwives present at each birth, but the problem has been solved that other occupational groups or temporary workers did the job instead. In addition, there are also the explanations that others have already mentioned, namely that we see more complicated births that require more time. In fact, we also see more administration in connection with a birth, and there is finally the fact that there has been a very large shift from having admissions in connection with a birth to having what is called an outpatient birth, that is to say that the woman comes in, gives birth and is sent back home. This means, in fact, that the midwives receive considerably more tasks, in which the woman was normally transferred to a maternity ward and the nursing staff could take care of her. So there are quite good explanations for the fact that the number of midwives has increased, while there is still a lack of resources for the birth situation itself. One of the things that is really important to me, and which we have also included in the joint text for adoption, which is largely all the parties behind, is that we are now following the fact that the money allocated to this area will actually go to the area as well. I'm worried, not least because the reports we get from, among other things. Danish Regions, is that you don't think there's a need in this area at all. I think that the scale of the problem has been overly neglected, and I think it is a signal that we should be very, very aware of how to actually manage it, that you have some money to do well with. This challenge will not be reduced by the fact that we are hearing from the regions right now, that they are strongly challenged by the fact that prices for medicines are rising. At any rate, I am concerned when I hear some of our regional members refer to regional meetings that you are equally creative about how to spend this money, whether you could not cut down and then fill up again afterwards. Therefore, I think it is very, very important that we as Parliament, but also that the government engages in close dialogue with Danske Regions and also with the individual regions on how this money is actually going to go to the boost of the maternity departments that we share in thinking there is a need for. Finally, I would just like to say that I would also like to congratulate Mrs Liselott Blixt on having put a large number of written questions in this context. I still think we lack some answers to what reality really looks like, and I can hear that others have also been given the same consideration. There are very, very large differences down at the individual departments, and I think we will have to go down to look at it in order to get a clear picture of what is really happening. So I think it could be really interesting if we could get one step closer and see what the reality really is and get a concrete inventory for each maternity ward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226131016	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226131035	Food departments are something that I have not personally had contact with for a little more than 37 years, which is why I also had to try to get a little more input into the positions that I had to put forward on behalf of the Liberal Alliance. That's why it's nice that we live in a modern time where we have social media available and I could ask on Facebook if anyone could give some advice. In fact, I would say that there were rarely large numbers of qualified people. I think I've been approached by some thirty midwives yesterday on the basis of a single post on Facebook. What we can see from what I have heard is the following: firstly, we must remember that until we have closed down the regions it is a regional task and not a state task to deal with the births. Secondly, it would help a great deal if we allowed the money to follow it, as we do in many other areas, so that we could take it to a private maternity clinic, and so that we ourselves, as a citizen, as a woman who is going to give birth, can choose the place where we want it to happen and where the quality that we need can be offered. Thirdly, there are many who mention this homebirth scheme for the Region of Zealand, which I think Mrs Liselott Blixt also mentioned, and which is an example to follow, where one can go in and see how we can actually ensure that women who want and can can can feed at home and can do so in a reassuring way. Finally, it is mentioned that, like everywhere in the public sector, there has been too much documentation that there is too much bureaucracy around it for staff so that they cannot focus on the core task. There is no doubt that safety and quality are essential when we talk about births. Then there is the question of economics. There are several who have asked me over the last 24 hours: could you plan in the individual departments in a different way to something like planned Caesarean section versus women giving birth to the children themselves, so to speak? Would there be economics in doing so in a different way and assessing in a different way when one does one and the other and the third? Of course, you have to bear in mind that many of the planned Caesarean sections can also be caused by fear of complications due to other sufferings that the woman in question may have, so that you combine these things. All in all, it is a debate that is essential. It is a debate that I hope they will also take out in the individual regions, because it is they who are ultimately responsible. And then I hope that at some point we will be able to have those regions closed down, but to come even more to the point where the money follows the woman, so that we can have a birth of as high quality as possible, appropriate to the needs of the individual woman and the individual family.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226131412	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226131419	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Liselott Blixt for raising the debate on the bustle in the maternity wards. There have been some organizational changes in the field of birth in recent years. For example: several of the smaller birthplaces have been merged into larger units. This is, of course, done on the basis of improving quality, but also in order to provide some flexibility in adjusting capacity. But major changes can, of course, create a feeling of increased work pressure. We know this from all workplaces. Several speakers have mentioned this: we know that the number of midwives has increased in recent years and, at the same time, the number of births has decreased. However, as several people have also said, things cannot be taken up in figures, and a number of professionals are pointing to challenges that make the debate not quite as simple as the figures show. There are conditions that contribute to a greater number of complicated births, and we have also seen in enquiries, especially over the past six months, from professionals and in various articles and television programmes in the media, that many midwives find it difficult to perform their core services satisfactorily. They feel that there are things they don't get done. They can be responsible for several births at once and thus neither the pregnant women nor the children can give the attention they need. That is, of course, a problem. Many midwives also experience more tasks coming and that they become different. A large part of this problem must undoubtedly be solved locally by the responsible hospital management and in the regions. In addition, with the Finance Act, the government has given more money to the area, and that money must, of course, be used as best as possible to address these problems and challenges. Danske Regioner also has a strong focus on ensuring a high quality at births and continues to run the project "Smart Births," in which the midwife association has also been involved and actively participated. So a lot of good things happen. It is important to us that it is for all of us, and we can also hear this in this debate that the staff in the maternity wards, but also the pregnant, the children and the relatives feel safe in the courses that we offer them. It must be a good experience to be a patient in the maternity ward, and it must be a good experience to work in the maternity ward. That is why we support the text of the adoption, in which, firstly, we say that everyone who gives birth must have as good an experience as possible; secondly, that the funds allocated by the government must be used to ensure that safe conditions are created during the birth, so that new families get the best possible start; and thirdly, that the minister of course retains focus on the use of funds in the regions and follows the development of quality in the area and then, of course, continues to debate it and informs us in the Folketing about developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226131708	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. And the vote on the proposed adoption will not take place until Tuesday 10 March 2015. Then we should actually move on to the next proposal, but the Minister has not shown up. That is why the sitting is suspended for three minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132009	The sitting has resumed and the Minister has arrived. I have to say that it is a very bad tradition that the Minister does not show up. It's charged by other presidents before me, and I've been through it myself. That shouldn't happen. The sitting is open and the debate is open. Here you go, sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132031	The purpose of this government bill is to continue the implementation of the political agreement, in which the Left is also involved, on the construction of a motorway from the Holbæk motorway to Kalundborg. This is the second stage. The first stage started in August 2013. The left can warmly support the bill. For the sake of better traffic flow, greater road safety and better business development in Kalundborg and its surroundings, as well as better opportunities for settlement in the Kalundborg region, the Kalundborg motorway is very important. In this connection, we must also remember that the harbour of Kalundborg is the deepest port in Zealand, and as the ships get bigger and deeper, it is important that road access from and to Kalundborg is significantly improved in the form of a motorway all the way to Kalundborg. In the Left we have taken note of the importance for road safety that this stage is taken 600 metres further along the intersection at Knabstrup Mill Tray and Knabstrupvej. It is presented by Local Forum Regstrup, Local Forum for Mørkøv, Skamstrup and Stigs Bjergby, Knabstrup Local Forum and Holbæk Municipality. This is entirely justified and a relevant problem raised by the locals here. The Left will look at whether it is not possible to resolve this problem during the committee's deliberations. As I said, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132155	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132203	Thank you. It is with particular pleasure that I stand today in the Chair as rapporteur for the Socialists on this bill. It is no secret that I have long been looking forward to and have long been advocating that we should find the money for another piece of Kalundborg motorway and get started with the motorway construction. That is why it was very good news when, back in June last year, a broad transport agreement was concluded with the means to launch another stage of the motorway south of Regstrup. There is no doubt that we all win on a motorway all the way to Kalundborg. It creates both growth and development when we provide better conditions for business and it means new jobs and better opportunities to settle in the Kalundborg area and the entire West Zealand area. It makes it much more attractive for families with children to settle down when the infrastructure is improved and everyday life will be better connected for commuters. Today there is a great deal of congestion when both heavy traffic and commuter traffic are going out on the Skovvejen, and there is such a need for the expansion that is now on the way with this proposal for a construction law. It's socio-economic sense to expand this motorway, because Kalundborg has Zealand's largest business area outside Copenhagen and is at the same time one of the most important ports in the country. The infrastructure is a life-snare. If development is to continue in the future, we are entirely dependent on strengthening the infrastructure and transport links here. The expansion and upgrading south of Regstrup means a total of 6 km of motorway, and this 426 million. kr. is really well spent. It is an important step on the way to achieving fully in line with the Kalundborg motorway, and it not only benefits citizens and businesses in northwest Zealand, but it benefits all of Denmark when we ensure a strong transport infrastructure. I therefore welcome the fact that there is a majority that will ensure that the spade is put to the ground and that we can get the work started. Of course, on the socialist side, we support the proposal for a construction law here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132405	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132409	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur and others who have worked seriously on this. We are also working together locally, and I do not think that is a great secret, because we must achieve the very goal, that is, come all the way to Kalundborg. But this second stage is an incredibly important step on the road. I just want to ask the rapporteur, according to what Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, on behalf of the Left, was talking about exactly how to look at the possibility of and we are fully involved in conciliation bindings, and about the fact that it is a matter of agreement that, like being implemented here, we can look at the situation that is right there, where the second stage is now scheduled to end. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff knows the place very well, I'm in. So could you look at road safety at the crossroads that come immediately after the second stage is now scheduled to end?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132452	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132454	Thank you. I'm gonna send the rose back to sir. Jacob Jensen for the good cooperation on this important piece of highway. In relation to the specific issue raised here, I can say that I have also received citizens' requests from local associations, which I have of course read and take seriously. I believe that we are taking the necessary account of this draft law, but it is clear that if the Left, which is part of the conciliation circle, will take up something, whatever it may be, then I think we should be sensitive to it from the rest of the conciliation circle. At least that's my attitude. But I think we're taking the necessary account of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132535	Thank you. And there's a comment on that. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132542	I'm gonna deal with it a little more generally. I understand very well that there are local interests at stake here; this is evident in both the rapporteur's speeches and questions, etc. But I would like to ask the more general question whether the social democracy does not relate to the effect of motorways, namely that they actually generate more car traffic, that they suck passengers out of public transport, and that in this way they do not, in the long run, alleviate the congestion they are supposed to alleviate. There is clearly evidence of this if you look at the motorway network around Copenhagen. There is great tribulation, but those roads have just been made to avoid tribulation. And that's what we've seen around the country. It is most obvious, of course, when motorways are built in the same line, if I may say so, as the lines. We see it on Funen, on West Funen; we see it with the new motorway Holstebro-Herning etc.; we see it in this case too. How, in fact, will we ultimately combat congestion and contribute to a better climate and environment, when we are in fact undermining public transport by extending motorways?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132704	Yes, please. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132706	We are also together with Enhedslisten and other good parties via Togfonden DK by showing how much we strengthen public transport. Especially to Kalundborg, I am delighted that electrification is taking place and that there is a speed upgrade of the railway all the way to Kalundborg. So it's not either-or in this case. Indeed, we are strengthening public transport throughout the country, while at the same time seeing that there are places where better road links are needed. To take the example of Kalundborg, which we have here, I would like to say that there is no possibility of transporting goods. After all, I was talking about Kalundborg having the second largest business area on Zealand outside Copenhagen. It's not like it's a big city, but business is huge. We have Novo Nordisk, we have Novozymes, we have Statoil, we have a huge industry. We have just held a transport policy consultation on the socio-economic gains by building infrastructure in the right places. Kalundborg came up again and again with our representative for Dansk Industri, who used Kalundborg, you might say, as a kind of business case. There's going to be that freight can't be transported on trains. It has to be transported on trucks. So in order to increase business-friendliness, to increase road safety, to increase momentum, we need a motorway all the way to Kalundborg. It is not only something that benefits the business community in Kalundborg; it is something that will make us all richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132832	Yes, please. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132834	I understand, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff does not take part in the vision of moving more goods from trucks to trains. Exactly the Kalundborg capital line • when it is electrified is an ideal place to set in with freight transport, for it is true that it is a large industrial area around Kalundborg and Kalundborg Harbour. With a direct connection to the metropolitan area, which is an equally large area, not least with a large container port, it will be perfectly obvious. But I understand that vision, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff does not share, although it is actually part of the agreement on the Train Foundation DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132911	Well, I guess if Enhedslisten can find money to upgrade different train lines around, I'm sure you'll take it locally by kiss hand. But that doesn't change the fact that this highway is economically sensible. It's just good money. It's well-interested, that's good sense. We have a huge business community that we would like to maintain Danish jobs • also Danish production jobs • and attract new ones. In fact, this is one of the things that Kalundborg can do: attract new large production jobs. It is good Danish jobs, it is money for all of us. It is common sense that there will be a motorway all the way to Kalundborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132951	There's one more comment. Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226132957	In my rapporteur's speech, I raised the problem raised by the locals in the area about the intersection at Knabstrup Miller Tray and Knabstrupvej. I would like to stress that in the Left we are, of course, in the agreement that has been made on the construction of this stage, but when, during the consultation period, we get inquiries from the locals in Røstrup and Dark-køv and Skamstrup and Stigs Bjergby and Knabstrup, I think we should also take it seriously. That is why I put forward the idea that we should try to see what opportunities there are for creating greater road safety at the intersection at Møllebakken and Knabstrupvej. However, I understood from the rapporteur that the rapporteur was somewhat reluctant to do so. That is why I should like to ask: why? Should we not try to see if we could find some solution to this, so that we can have a roadworthy solution in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133051	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133054	Of course, it always makes an impression when citizens' associations take time, get involved, and in this case it is even more local citizens' associations. They stand together and give an overall answer. It makes an impression. These are some questions that are being read, and that is, of course, something that we are going to discuss. I think that's how it is with everyone who works with these things. Of course, when there are large groups of citizens who address themselves and have a genuine concern, it is taken seriously. It also does so on the part of the Socialist Group, and of course it makes an impression. Perhaps the Left makes a demand or suggestion on how to change it. Then the Left will have to put it down, and then we will have to discuss further there if the Left has something concrete that needs to be changed. My approach here from the platform and the approach of the Social Democratic Party is that this proposal is so comprehensive in relation to the issue that is being raised. That's my approach. That doesn't mean I don't listen to the concerns that exist. Nor does it mean that we are not receptive to good arguments of any kind. It's just too honest to outline where we stand in this context. And we are standing where we think it is adequate for the issue that is being raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133207	Here you go, but you gotta get in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133214	The Left does not come here to make any demands, because this is conciliation, and it is an agreement, and we are all behind it. But I am just saying that when the local people say that there is a problem, we must also take it seriously. What I just want to ask you is why we cannot try to look at it together during the committee procedure. That is what we have committee proceedings for. It is, of course, for us to be able to look together at whether a solution can be found in some way. And that's just what I want to have a positive reaction to. So it's not about a political ping pong that we have to make demands and all that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133248	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133250	I don't see any political ping pong at all. I see it as something real, both for citizens' associations, but also for representatives of the Left to raise it here, and let us at last discuss it in committee. My approach, as I said before, is that the draft law, as I read it, will be comprehensive in terms of the issue raised. That is my approach, but if the Left raises it in one place or another, then I think we should discuss it further • if the Left has a different approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133328	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur who is Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133335	It is a little a joyous day, because now we are taking another step towards Kalundborg, when we are going to adopt the construction of another piece of the Kalundborg Mortor Road. It is not a big piece, but every step towards Kalundborg is a step forward for the entire northwest Zealand region. Especially DF is happy with this development. We fought in 2009, because when we made an agreement on green transport policy, in the dark of the night we had 400 million fought. kr. into the deal to start this work. Fortunately, there has been goodwill on the part of our fellow Members to continue that process, and that is why we could then translate back resources in 2014 and then get the next 6 km here at Regstrup. This problem has been raised in relation to local wishes and I have been looking at the problem and it is a really, really dangerous intersection because a motorway leads to a dangerous intersection, so I have heard the signals. Now I am looking down at the Minister, because I have a bit of a feeling that I do not think it is so much in the committee work; it should be done now there are not many transport rapporteurs present who have actually made this agreement because it is a question of the conciliation circle meeting to see if we can find any funding to solve this problem, and I would like to give a hand there, because the Danish People's Party is prepared to look at that. After all, we are elected by the people and therefore it does not matter if we sometimes listen to them too. So, with these few but well-chosen words, of course, we support another excellent piece of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133517	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133522	I can see that Mr. Kim Christiansen has spoken to Altinget: transport. I can see that some of what has been quoted says that a sensible balance must be struck between public transport and private car traffic. In fact, I do not very much disagree with that, but Mr. Is it not Kim Christiansen who, after all, is talking about two competing traffic systems and who, to a certain extent, cannibalise each other? I think in this situation that we have invested quite a lot of money on the double track between Lejre and Vipperød, so there are now double tracks all the way from Roskilde to Holbæk, and we will have an upcoming electrification to Kalundborg. Why not wait and see if there is an effect on those investments rather than just bust on with a competing traffic system that sucks passengers and, for that matter, goods too, if freight has now been established from and to Kalundborg? Why not wait and see if there is an effect of it because it is there? But why not wait for the effect before busting on with the construction of new motorways?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133637	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133638	But it is for the simple reason that there is simply no time for that. After all, no one more than the Danish People's Party is trying to make a weighting of public transport and road traffic. That's why we're here. is a member of the Danish Railway Foundation together with Mr. Henning Hyllested and Enhedslisten and other good powers. We also have a great deal of interest in the fact that there is a well-functioning train operation in Denmark or else we would not have been in the agreement on a train fund. But one thing just doesn't rule out the other. Well, I know Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested's views, and I also know that Mr. Henning Hyllested might have seen a four-track cycle path to Kalundborg; but now it will be a motorway, and we are quite happy with that. At the same time, we help electrify all the way to Holbæk, so we can get new fast trains on the stretch in 8-10 years. So I believe that the Danish People's Party has a very reasonable balance in relation to doing one thing and the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133731	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133734	No time for that? Well, what's the rush? Well, the hardship on the road here is no more severe than what you can see in so many other places in the country. It is extremely exaggerated, and you can see that if you go into the Road Directorate's reports on it. So the tribulation is not that severe. So what's the rush? If it is tribulation, but it is thought that you want to be put to death, Mr. Kim Christiansen did not see that it is a fact that motorways and motorway constructions generate more car traffic and that it is only a short period of time until it sands again, just as it has done on all sorts of other motorways, perhaps just with the exception of those in North Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133816	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133817	I recognise that there is often a traffic leap when we create a proper infrastructure, and I think that is a positive thing, because it shows that there is a development. And surely we cannot be dissatisfied with some of us. So in relation to the second: when I say it is urgent, it is because there is a huge capacity problem on the forest road the last piece towards Kalundborg, and therefore one has a task. We simply owe it to Kalundborg, which is a huge area with large jobs, to provide a proper infrastructure. I know there are no problems with the railway network, there are no capacity problems at present. I drove my own train on the stretch, and there are a lot of seats available. And with regard to goods: If someone wants to drive there, it is not the Danish People's Party that stands in the way of moving some goods over.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133909	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226133913	Thank you. I would like to sign up to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for the announcement to look at this very specific issue raised in the local consultation responses with regard to road safety at the end of the planned second stage. I have then asked the Minister of Transport for such a sense of magnitude. Now the rapporteur must not put the last million dollars on me; I do not remember it in detail, but I think it was about 70 million. kr., it would cost, because it also includes a bridge closure. Does the commitment or the announcement that I hear from the Danish People's Party also have anything to do with saying that if you extended the stage with these 600 metres, it is not wasted money, because we all hope that we have, like politically speaking, taken a position on the fact that, hopefully in a few years' time, a motorway will come all the way to Kalundborg? So it can be said that it is money that still has to be spent, perhaps just at a slightly later stage, and then we could get it forward, also in terms of getting a safer flow of traffic exactly in this specific area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134010	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134012	I very much agree that it is of course money that is taken from the rest of the stage, but on the other hand I cannot spend money here and now, which I will not be paid out until June. So I'm willing to take a look at whether we can find some kind of funding. 70 million kr. After all, it is also a kind of money, even for a transport rapporteur, so I am willing to meet in the conciliation circle and see if there is anything we can move forward in the other process and if we can find the means, I am very positive about doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134040	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the radical rapporteur is not present in the Chamber, it is Mrs Anne Baastrup as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134053	During all the time I have been dealing with transport policy, there has been a lot of discussion about the Forest Road and the change in its structure from being an ordinary highway to becoming a motorway. So that's why it's a partial end to this discussion. However, I can now see from the consultation answers that we have received that there has been a new and very serious discussion, namely on road safety at the end of the second part of the motorway to Kalundborg, and we must of course take this seriously. The simple way is, of course, to take the money set aside with estimates and everything according to the Ministry of Finance rules, and then we can just use the ones we save, because we usually save. But that may not work, which is why we have to find out in the conciliation circle what is the right thing to do. After all, it is no more than a small year ago that the Transport Committee stopped legal proceedings on a level-free cut on the Ringsted track. You had to change the line for a runway. Then the law was simply stopped and a new supplementary environmental study was found, and then we will see what it ends up with there. But what we also need to be aware of is that if we postpone treatment in order to change conditions at the end of the second phase, it will cost about a year's work on new environmental assessments. I just think that in the discussion we should be involved in how much money will then be talked about before we start negotiating. Sir. Jacob Jensen mentioned an amount in the order of 70 million. kr. The amount that I have been informed of in connection with the immediate extension is 35-45 million. kr. But that requires environmental studies, and it takes the time it takes, precisely in this area. So we just have to be open when we talk about changing this whole relationship that it could delay the completion of the road for a year or so. I do not think we should hide the fact that that is what we shall then be doing. I think we should be open and honest with each other. We are in the SF ourselves very concerned about resolving this issue of the lack of road safety at the end, but at the same time we also have to be open to the fact that every time you make a part of a motorway there comes a conclusion, and then there are some challenges on the other side, because people are used to driving fast, and now they have to stop driving fast. After all, the minister has put up for signage there, and the police have to make sure that the speed is as low as 70 km/h. Local people say people just drive 90 km/h. Anyway. There we have some new opportunities to control how fast people are driving. If the police hold and photograph people a few times, if they drive too fast, then it may be that they simply come down to 70 km/h. Up to the intersection. But we have to be honest with each other. So it is a challenge. If we're going to do this, we're going to need a new environmental assessment, and then we're going to have to take it from there, and it's going to take time. However, basically, SF is part of the Green Transport Agreement, and we naturally support the agreement made in 2009, 2011 and 2013 and when, moreover, it has been dealt with with Skovvejen. We look forward to active committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134436	There are a few comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134440	Thank you, Mrs Baastrup, for corrupting me too, in that it was not as expensive as I thought it was at first. Now, however, we have reached half-way towards funding, but joke aside, that's all fine. Perhaps I should just point out to Mrs Anne Baastrup that an EIA study has been carried out, including on the third stage, so I am not quite sure that it is true what Mrs Baastrup says. If you chose in the conciliation circle to extend the second stage by this 600 m, then the environmental studies are already done. It is certainly my impression that they are made, but that it should then have the meaning of reconsidering how and how, I cannot say. But I do not think this means that you would have to start a completely new EIA study to expand by 600 m, because the EIA study has been made all the way to Kalundborg, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134525	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134526	As I understand it, it is also about the fact that after Regstrup's proposal has arrived, they also change some bridges, and it is their whole proposal that will then require an additional environmental study. I apologize for being imprecise.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134541	There's a questioner about that, sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134544	I was just listening to Mrs Anne Baastrup and wondering: what does Mrs Baastrup really mean? But it came at the end. And then I would like to quote, because Mrs Baastrup has also spoken to Altinget: transport around this problem of motorways and indeed, over the last many years, has responded to all the transport policy challenges for some parties: several motorways. Mrs Baastrup is right about that in her article. I think these are some very good things that I could quote Mrs Baastrup for here: it is time to reconsider whether this answer is the only right one. Mrs Baastrup also points out that we have a great deal of motorway per hour. residents of this country. We're all, all the way to the top, etc. etc. Then I just think: how does it relate here to the fact that SF and Mrs Anne Baastrup seem to support this motorway project, which, like all other motorway projects, has the flaw that it only generates more car traffic to the detriment of our environment and our climate, that we do not, in the long term, alleviate the congestion on our roads, on the contrary, can we almost say?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134656	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134658	I knew that sir... Henning Hyllested wanted to make that speech, and that is why I also thought that it is a little too bad that Mr Hylllested was here. Henning Hylllested and Mr. Henning Hyllested's party, Enhedslisten, is not part of the green traffic agreement. After all, in 2009, we reached that agreement, and an extra party would have been nice to push towards spending more money on public transport. But Enhedslisten has chosen to be outside. It's a shame, but that's the way it is. I'm putting a lot of energy into raising public transport there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134730	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134733	After all, we stayed out of the green transport agreement because it contained a whole series of motorway projects. We do not, of course, believe, like Mrs Baastrup in Altinget, that this is the answer to all the challenges of our transport policy. So that's why we stayed out. I recognise, of course, that SF is also fighting hard for public transport. That is also why I, like myself, am asking about the duality that I think I can always see when one also supports one motorway project after another.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134807	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134808	Well, there's we just want to be in that settlement because we have an impact on a lot of other things. And I stand by every word I've written in that article and I'll come up with a new article shortly with the same content.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134821	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226134839	You know what I'm gonna say, and I could stop here. But no. We find it difficult to see in Enhedslisten why this stage of Skovvejen needs to be upgraded from motorway to motorway. In fact, traffic flow is relatively smooth. Yes, there is tribulation at certain times. There are so many places in the country. It's no worse here than it's so many other places in the country. The accidents are actually relatively few, fortunately, and the expected increase in traffic is not different from that on the average road network. There is a lot of heavy traffic, yes, to and from Kalundborg, of course, there is a large port, a large industrial area, but it is no more than that the road in question can easily cope with it. The only reason why the stage has to be expanded is, you might almost say, the law of inertia: now it is the turn of West Zealand to join the asphalt stripes, and then, of course, there has been a vigorous lobbying by local politicians, both at parliamentary and local level, and from KL, who have succeeded in convincing the politicians in here that a motorway would save travel time and lower transport costs. The reduced transport costs are not impressive: 18 million. kr. distributed over 50 years, friends. That's about it. 360,000 kroner. a year, 1,000 kroner. a day. Is such a minimal saving really enough for society to invest approx. 0.5 billion kr. in a new plant where there is neither congestion nor an accident rate that rises above the average? Most of the motorway proposals presented here in Tinget contain a K-Alternate, they must in the context of the EIA survey. the development of public transport. But it is probably mostly for the sake of vision, and we think we can see that here too, because the K alternative is always rejected, almost in advance, as it is neither considered relevant nor interesting for that matter. In the Road Directorate's review, the bus traffic was mentioned, but not the train traffic and the possibilities offered by the deployment of other tracks on the Lejre-Vipperød section in order to attract car driver commuters. Nor has it been seen to what extent a gradual extension of the Holbæk-Kalundborg track could cause drivers to rise again. Freight traffic between Kalundborg and the capital does not exist as an option for the Road Directorate, and that is also why we have repeatedly pointed out on the part of Enhedslisten that we may think that when assessing the K alternatives in connection with motorway construction, we should get a neutral body to do so. We do not believe that the Road Directorate is an ill-advised body to assess the K alternative for motorway construction. It would have been useful to look at the effect of the half billion kroner that the motorway costs could have given on the northwest railway, where the amount would reach 8-10 km of double track, thus providing a much more robust train operation and an extended train operation, as well as noticeable travel time savings exceeding the one tricky minute that drivers can save on the new motorway stage. This motorway, too, is contrary to the Government's objective of reducing the overall environmental impact of traffic. Only 5 tonnes of CO2 But so: Many cymbals small, and many highways, many small increases in emissions of CO2 The Enhedslisten will of course vote against the proposal, but we must recommend that those residents be consulted who complain that the motorway will increase noise nuisances. We must therefore call for funds to be included in the construction sum for a satisfactory noise reduction for residents, both in the form of noise shields, and for noise reducing asphalt to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135236	Thank you. A brief comment from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135241	Perhaps the remarks were not as surprising as Mr. Henning Hyllested started by saying. Nevertheless, I should like to thank you for the lobbying that has been carried out, not least on the local side. I'll take care of that. But when the Enhedslisten finds that there is, after all, a majority in favour of this stage being completed, and I am glad of that, then I would like to ask whether Enhedslisten does not care about the issue raised in the consultation answer, namely with the end, which lies here several times referred to 600 metres before a crossroads get into that road. Isn't it something that Enhedslisten might be able to go in and support positively in the committee work by saying: Since after all the motorway is coming up the piece we are now talking about here • Does Enhedslisten think it is a good idea that after all we are going to get it done in a roadworthy way?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135329	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135330	In fact, I would like to give an undertaking on this, because it is a very, very relevant issue. That is the problem we always get when we are, like, faced with a motorway that ends, if I may say so, abruptly. We also have it up at Herning, where we suddenly get a piece of motorway between two sections of the motorway. This is not very good from the point of view of road safety. I fully agree with that, so we would like to take a look at this in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135400	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135403	Sir. Henning Hyllested talks about a piece of lobbying. This is often the case with transport projects; there must be some who fight for it in order for it to become a reality. I sense that it was meant to be a criticism, but at least I intend to wear it as a mark of honour. For me, this isn't about West Zealand groping for itself. It's about a need, and it's in the interests of the whole country to solve this traffic needs or at least to solve some of the traffic needs with the 6 km. Sir. Henning Hyllested says the road can handle it. Now I would say that I am a slightly more diligent user of this road link than Enhedslisten's rapporteur, so my impression is different. Will Mr. Henning Hyllested recognizes that at our Transport Policy Conference it was Kalundborgcasen that constantly pops up as an example of the need to invest in, among other things. For example, if Denmark is to maintain and attract production jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135504	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135505	Now it is not up to me to decide whether this is a case in different contexts, but it really illustrates very well that transport policy has to choose. You have to choose which way you want to go, including whether or not you want to do something good for the climate and the environment. I can only note that, precisely because of many local interests around the world, those motorway projects that are not good for our environment and climate, which are not good for long-term hardship, are chosen incorrectly in our opinion. We therefore prefer to develop public transport instead, to expand freight traffic throughout the country and also to give it time to work. We see far too many places I have mentioned some of the examples in some of my questions that you do not wait for the effect of what you actually do in public transport. When you make double tracks all the way to Holbæk and later expand and electrify to Kalundborg, it is meant to mean that people move from the cars to the train, but they do not, if you also expand the motorway right next door. The car is incredibly difficult to compete with, since it is a fact because it is convenient and it keeps exactly outside the matrimony and out in the carport, and it drives you right to the door you are going to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135626	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135628	I recognise that it is the policy of Enhedslisten that motorways are generally an evil. I disagree with that. I am also in favour of cycling and I am also in favour of good public transport links, but we must look at the individual parts of the country and look at: what is needed here? And Kalundborg is not a big city. It is not Esbjerg or Århus who needs an easy track, or Copenhagen who needs a metro. That's not what Kalundborg needs. What Kalundborg needs is that people can live there, can work there and that they can attract businesses. And it's a freeway. Recognizes Mr. Henning Hyllested not that this is what the business community wants that is what can provide jobs for the jobs that we all go hungry for?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135712	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135713	Yes, I recognise that this is what the business community would like to do, but I must also point out that the business community at home is thinking very, very conservatively. There is a lack of vision as to how transport should take place. I have repeatedly raised this problem with various business leaders and said: you want to dress up with green feathers; you all want to be green companies in terms of energy consumption, foreigners, and what do I know, but when it comes to transport, you choose the completely traditional way. Then you take the truck and send it off, and it takes a highway, and then we're in the process of development. I do not think that motorways are necessarily evil, but I am just saying: let us stop and let us see if there are no alternatives, because that is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135800	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135804	Thank you. I can't help but ask a question to Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested, since I have the opportunity. Sir. Henning Hyllested speaks a lot about rail freight, but is there anything to prevent goods from being carried on the northwest railway today? Is it not basically about the fact that it is not profitable to drive goods on the line in question? Because if someone could see a business in it, I'd rather find someone like DB Schenker who would help with it. That's one thing. So it is not that long since we had a delegation in the Committee on Transport. Sir. After all, Henning Hylllested is a great honour to our national railway company, DSB. He almost believes that it is untouchable, at least in relation to the future, but it is DSB that has chosen to make fewer stops at some stations on the North-West railway, even after we have spent 1.3 billion. kr. to create an additional track to increase capacity. Then Mr. Henning Hyllested's beloved DSB simply to stop picking up passengers. Isn't that a problem? I guess it's not the highway's fault.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135911	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226135912	Well, that's a problem, and I'm not on DSB's board or board of directors, so I'm not the one who decides on it. And I totally agree with that criticism. When you provide rail, you should not start, for example. jumping stations over. It's familiar. But I would like to say on the subject of freight transport that it is also a question of creating a basis for actually carrying goods. For many years we all know this has been closed down to freight transport on rail. We know that Banedanmark, I would almost say hate freight transport on rail. It is only because they are forced to deal with it sometimes, and then they have a single man over there to deal with it. There has to be a whole other ball on the soup, so I think you can get DB Schenker or, for that matter, others to drive goods around, not least for example. between Kalundborg and Copenhagen, if you otherwise create the right channels to do so on a commercial basis, which is also in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140003	Thank you. Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140006	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask what these conditions are. Henning Hyllested wants, in addition to the need to lay some rails. The prerequisite is there. And then I'd like to remind you of where Mr. Henning Hyllested himself comes from, namely Esbjerg. I think I let myself be talked to, among other things. to make some railroad all the way down to the harbor, which is nice. There are certainly no wear and tear costs and maintenance costs on the project over there, because there is not a single freight train running. It just shows how hard it is. Whatever we do, you can't think of this freight transport if no one wants to drive it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140045	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140046	I actually think there are some who want to run it. In fact, there are also some who want to drive freight trains to Esbjerg. Another thing is that you then design a train terminal over there that is hopeless to use, precisely because you do not talk with the rail freight transporters who are present. Then you get into the kind of foolishness that I fully agree with it. Of course you have to talk with the forces there, but it is also a question of the state being prepared, in concrete terms, by Banedanmark, to intervene with the facilities that will then be needed to get this freight transport through. It acts among other things. on electrification. And it's about maybe having double tracks between Holbæk and Kalundborg instead of single tracks etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140131	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140144	Thank you. Now, at the beginning of this point, I could understand that both the Left and the Social Democrats were delighted with local change and enthusiasm, and that is why I can say that if the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Villum Christensen, had been here, I am sure he could have participated in exactly the same cheer and the same thanks to each other about the fantastic lobbying that had been carried out and delighted with the result. So, of course, I will try to vote enthusiasm in my speech on behalf of the party and therefore already say that we are very much in favour of this bill and are very pleased that it has finally been implemented. This is part of the agreement from last summer, where agreement was made on a few highways, two on Zealand and two in Jutland, and we are very pleased that you are now getting more on the axis between Kalundborg and Holbæk, and this takes into account both commuting and business driving etc. all over that northwest corridor. It does, of course, because the Kalundborg area represents an important business area on Zealand, and you can also see from the calculations from the Ministry that there is only a value in the order of 430 million. kr. in the establishment of this piece. It also reinforces the possibility of recruiting workers from the hinterland, which means that commuting opportunities are greatly increased with this part of the way, and also by getting it done completely one day. I mean, companies like Novo Nordisk have to get employees far away from, perhaps even from Copenhagen. If we are then the question of labour mobility, and that is what I can add to the very local issue, we would also like to point out that it would be very good if the Minister were to speed up the analyses on the Kattegat Bridge, which will probably be the single decision in the area of infrastructure, which will be most important in the effort to bind East and West Denmark together. This will certainly mean an overall labour market across Denmark. So we will already be able to rejoice at this in advance if it were to be speeded up by the Minister, and that would in fact give rise, unlike Femern and other things, to Danish growth on both sides of the bridge. So there are only good things to say about it, and that is why it is mentioned in this context, but it is a completely different matter, and so I should just like to welcome the fact that we are in agreement with this draft law and that we are quite sure that our rapporteur can well imagine that we could contribute positively to the solution of the problem that has been raised around the end, which is obviously causing a number of problems. So I am sure I will be able to do so by the rapporteur. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140440	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mike Legarth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140457	Thank you, Madam President. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill. We think it is very good that in the traffic agreement we had some money allocated to some new motorway projects. After all, we think it is important that there is a balance between the investments we make in public transport in relation to rail and also the road network, and here it is a piece of motorway which, on the stretch from Holbæk to Kalundborg, improves conditions not only for those who live there but also for the business community; it removes congestion, queues, bottlenecks. It is all very useful, not just for the local area, but for the whole of Zealand, and if you wear the very far-sighted glasses actually for the whole country. So this is one of the projects we warmly support. In the same way, if you had to take on a whole new subject, as many others have done, we have an army highway that we would like to look at over in Jutland, to which we also, when it once sands to far out in the future, will devote money. When you listen to the debate in the Committee on Transport, you can hear that there is disagreement about how the money is allocated and how to find new money. We think more should be invested in roads, so that there is greater comprehension and greater mobility between the regions, where this government spends more money on railways and rails. So we hope there will be a change, not least after the next elections. But there's full support for this bill from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140619	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226140633	I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their contributions, which were, in large part, extremely positive. It is also a very, very broad settlement that is behind this. The bill includes an authorisation to upgrade and expand 6 km of what is known on the road map as route 23 south of Regstrup to a four-track motorway. So it is de facto an extension of the Kalundborg motorway which today ends east of Regstrup. I would like to baptize it myself: a motorway to the Produktionsdanmark. And that is what is needed in order to maintain and develop production in Denmark in order to maintain and create more jobs. As mentioned above, it is a part of the implementation of the "Travel Agreement 2014 "........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The agreement has been concluded by the government parties S and R and then the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. According to the EIA report, the plant estimate is 444,9 million. kr. Of these, 18.8 million are included. kr. in a separate pool for take-over, so with the Construction Act we set aside 426.1 million. kr. for the construction of the motorway section. The aim is self-evident: it is to give a boost to the Forest Road, which will benefit citizens and businesses in the north-west of Zealand. We build 4.5 km of new motorway and upgrade another 1.5 km of the existing motorway, so you also have to drive faster, up to 110 km/h, on that stretch. It is therefore a few new kilometres of motorway that, once we are finished, will be of benefit to the thousands of commuters who travel every day to and from the Kalundborg area. It also helps the business community because access to Kalundborg's many companies will then be easier both for commuters, but of course also for the transport of goods and goods one way or the other. In the consultation phase, concerns about road safety have been raised because the motorway ends shortly before the intersection between Knabstrup Møller Tray and Knabstrupvej. That is also what several rapporteurs have raised here in the Chamber. Therefore, during the consultation period it has been proposed to extend by a further 600 m of route 23, so that it will also be upgraded to the motorway, and that the bridge at Knabstrup Møller Tray will be established at the same time as the rest of the motorway south of Regstrup. I can inform you that if we are to proceed with this proposal, we will have to allocate a further 75 to 100 million. kr. to the project in the conciliation circle. In addition, if ramps are needed, they cost approx. 20-30 million kr., and that is something that it is up to the conciliation circle and the parties to decide. I can inform you that when we met and made the settlement here with all the parties of the Folketing except the Enhedslisten, they used rub and stub. So there was no more money left. Other projects were also promoted and funded at the time, which means that there were no more funds left at that time. But, of course, it is always up to the conciliation circle at all times, when there are free means, to dispose of them. It's logical. In the consultation phase, there has also been a desire to raise the speed limit on the line to 130 km/h. There I can reassure you that according to the Road Directorate, the new section of the motorway will be dimensioned to this very thing, i.e. that you can drive 130 km/h. But it is also true that in that it is a short stretch and that it is a step by step that we are developing this motorway, the final speed limit is something that the police are setting after negotiation with the local road authorities. And it is assumed that, because it is such a short stage here, there is a sign to 110 km/h., and thus it is also said that if you reach, judging by the parties of the Danish Parliament today and my own position at some point can go ahead with this project, this stage here will be dimensioned to speed up to 130 km/h. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good first reading and thank you for your support for this proposal, which we are a lot of parties in favour of when we forward the proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226141120	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226141139	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226141153	The draft law we have to deal with now is simple: if you want to become a Danish citizen in the future, you have to submit your application electronically, i.e. via a website or the like. This will mean some relief in the administrative procedures which, I hope, may also mean that the length of the proceedings in the Ministry, which is currently very, very long, can be brought down. The Left supports the purpose of the bill and also supports the bill. However, we have a few things to say here at first reading, namely that we note that the Ministry opens up the possibility that applicants who are unable to use digital self-service will, of course, also be able to apply for Danish citizenship in the future. It's important. On the other hand, of course, pressure must also be exerted to ensure that as many people as possible take advantage of it, otherwise they will not get the benefits that the bill opens up. At the same time, we have something else that we would like to note, and that is that in future, applications should be submitted directly to the Ministry of Justice and not, as before, to the police in the country where you live. This also means that the questioning that is taking place with the police is no longer taking place as a starting point. It is then proposed that the Ministry of Justice may ask for this, and this can be done, among other things. I think it is a good thing that we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are asking for this. I would say that when I sit and read exemptions cases myself, exactly the police report is the place where you most often get the most comprehensive picture of what an applicant we are dealing with. That is why I would like to make sure, during the committee procedure, that we do not have to ask for police hearings in this way in specific cases, but that we can lay down guidelines, for example. that, in different types of case, it is stated by default that there is to be a police hearing. It can therefore be quite difficult to get an impression of who we are dealing with, solely on the basis of the papers on the matter, from doctors and applicants themselves. With these comments, I would like to say that the Left is in agreement with the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226141417	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226141427	Thank you. It is true, as the rapporteur of the Left said, that this is an improvement in the way in which proceedings are conducted in the field of naturalisation, i.e. when applying for citizenship in Denmark. And it is very good that there can now be increased digitisation. This does not only make it more effective, it also makes it more unambiguous: you should not read handwriting and it also makes it possible for some statistics to be drawn or some interconnections to be made. So there are actually only advantages to it. But precisely because this circle of people often includes people who can be illiterate both in their original language and in Danish, there are many of the people who need help, and they will also have that in relation to having to fill something digital, that is over the net. I just think that the help they can get also includes help to get the forms filled out correctly, just as they are now receiving help and interpretation when they have to be questioned or submit their application to the chief of police. In fact, I personally share the view of the rapporteur of the Left that when we read the many cases, it is often that we start from behind in the case information we get and look at whether there is a police report, because it provides a good complement to the summary there is. That is what we are calling for in the Committee on Bodily Rights. It could also be that we should talk about how these summaries should be so that we can use them quickly. For some of the factual information contained in the police report is not in the summary, which is why we are actually using the many thousands of cases we have at the moment, the police report for some things in which we systematize our knowledge. But we could, of course, discuss whether this could not be done by the way in which a derogation is presented to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. So there is support from the Social Democrats for us to have streamlined and simplified the process itself, and those people who have a challenge by using digitalisation must of course have the necessary help. But we also need to use the bill to look at how we present the cases on the Committee on Bodily Rights. That could be really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226141657	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226141709	Thank you, President. In other words, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. There are things in life that are too important for the matter to be resolved by sitting and putting flybones in response boxes on a computer screen, and that certainly applies to citizenship. We are opposed to the administrative approach to citizenship and the underlying digitisation strategy, not in all areas, of course, but in some. So getting citizenship isn't just an expedition case. I know there are of course the same tests, but if you want Denmark, it is also good that you set your left foot in front and go down to the police station, where you as an applicant will meet a nice and friendly, but certain policeman or woman who sees that everything is going on according to the book, and look the applicant in the eye. It is, of course, also an extra control given by the personal meeting with the police. We don't think that meeting doesn't matter. It will be totally fatal for people who apply for a derogation from language requirements. The draft law's comments state: "The questioning may, for example, be the moment when an applicant requests a derogation from the general language requirements with reference to a completed training, and it is appropriate to have a statement from the police on the ability of the person concerned to conduct a conversation in Danish. I'm referring to the term "interview" will... may be the current date. So, I think it must be a clear condition that people who apply for a derogation from language requirements, of course, on top of having carried out language tests, still have to talk to a policeman or policewoman who can subsequently give a statement as to whether they can speak Danish. Can it really be that people who want exceptions to language requirements do not have to go through the control of a visit to the police? It is presented here as an opportunity. I think that should be a condition. Nationality must never become an expedition matter. It is far too serious for that. It is a testimony that one is Danish and wants to be Danish and belongs to the centre of the people. It should be the crown of the work in relation to a long integration process where one has demonstrated that one wants to be Danish, that one wants Denmark. I think there is a tendency in government policy to make citizenship more of such an expedition and administrative matter, where it is just made as easy as possible. The government has relaxed the general requirements to obtain citizenship. In addition to this, the system of granting citizenship to young people after school, or when they reach the age of 18, is based on this proposal. We shall vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226142029	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226142039	Thank you. I shall give the rapporteur's speech on behalf of Marlene Borst Hansen, who cannot be here today. As previous rapporteurs have also said, this bill contains that citizens can apply for Danish citizenship and in future must do so digitally. This is something for which the previous and current governments really have a great strategy, in other words a plan to digitise all this communication between citizens, businesses and the public. And this is a strategy that we fully support in the Radical Left. This could even mean shorter processing times for each applicant in this case, and it would most likely also make the system a little more efficient because you cannot send in the application unless you have attached the things you obviously need to in order to have the application examined. We are fully aware that there may be some special circumstances which will also be opened up in the legislative proposal if, if I may say so, you have problems filling these things; therefore, you can get help specifically for it and should not do so digitally. I think that this should be taken into account in further consideration. But otherwise the Radical Left fully supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226142147	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Rubinke, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226142159	Thank you. I am standing here because I am speaking on behalf of the SF Foreign Affairs and Integration Rapporteur, Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who unfortunately cannot be here at first reading. We support in the SF that in future a so-called digital self-service solution will be introduced in connection with the application for Danish citizenship. We think that this is sensible and we agree with the government that it is to be expected to make the case more efficient and thus also to give citizens a faster processing time, in other words, a win-win situation. At the same time, we acknowledge that the draft law will continue to provide for the possibility of dispensing with the digital self-service solution. It is, of course, necessary to continue to have the possibility of submitting an application in a different form in the specific cases where an applicant cannot use the new electronic application procedure. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226142250	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226142259	Over the last few years, the length of proceedings in the Ministry of Justice's birthright office has been very, very long. Until recently, applicants have been informed that the average duration of the proceedings was 14 to 16 months. There has been a so-called waiting archive in the birthright office for several thousand cases that have been waiting for treatment. This is, of course, unsatisfactory and it was also the reason why Enhedslisten concluded an agreement with the then S-R-SF government to reduce the processing time to an average of 7 months before the end of 2014. In the Ministry of Justice, a great deal of resources were transferred for the proceedings at the Office of the Court of First Instance, and lately, it has also been very successful in bringing down the processing time. We can, among other things. look at the large number of cases submitted to the Committee on the Rights of the Child and that is, of course, positive. Nevertheless, the government has not succeeded in achieving this objective of reducing the processing time to an average of 7 months by the end of 2014. Today at the end of February 2015 the average processing time is still longer than 7 months, unfortunately. However, as I said, I would like to acknowledge the great effort that I actually believe the government has made to try to speed up the handling of these matters, while ensuring that the quality of the treatment is in order. If this is the way to look at the matter at the Court of First Instance, and the committee did have the opportunity to do so the other day, when we were invited to visit the office, it turns out that a large part of the length of the proceedings actually goes on to make up for lack Some of the applicants simply do not make sure or do not have quite any control over the provision of all the information that the Court of First Instance needs to provide to determine whether the applicant can be included in a bill on the birth certificate or not; or, if so, whether the matter should have been referred to the Committee of Insights. And it can be said that if all of this information were to be found from the outset in all cases, then the process would be much faster. Therefore, we in Enhedslisten are also very positive about this digital application procedure, where the digital application cannot be sent unless all boxes are filled in. Hopefully, it can speed up the process, and this will be of benefit to the individual applicant. Having said that, I would like to say that it is important for us that there is a proper valve or sufficient with the possibility of having some kind of derogation for those applicants who are unable to use the digital procedure. As Mrs Karen Klint from the Socialists also said, we often have to deal with applicants who have very few resources, for example. to use a computer. Well, there's a lot of people who can't actually read and write. With such a valve, the proposal adds up to a new section 12a paragraph. 2 of the law of citizenship. That is so detailed in the comments. It states that exceptions can be made if an applicant has particular difficulties in using the digital application procedure. And it usually means that the right to make an exception must be very restrictive, and the same impression is also given, because the title of this bill refers to mandatory digital self-service. That is why, in the course of the committee's work, we will be interested in how restrictive this access to exceptions will be. And our final position on the legislative proposal will depend on the answers we receive, on the questions or on that issue. However, as I said, the transition to digital application procedures is a good starting point. It will also mean, as I can understand the Danish People's Party, that it is a major problem to make it unnecessary for the applicant to come to an interview with the local police in connection with the application. I think that is really positive, i.e. that the police are linked to most cases of citizenship. In our view, the application for citizenship should be a civilian task and not a police one. The draft law then means that the applicant must be able to continue to be interrogated in the eyes of the police if it is relevant to the case, for example. for the assessment of their linguistic abilities. These so-called interrogations, I must say, are, in our opinion, something that belongs in criminal proceedings. On this point, we agree with what the organization Danes Worldwide writes in their hearing response. The assessment of applicants' linguistic abilities does not, therefore, seem to us to be a typical police task; we would like the police to get completely out of these matters of nationality, so as to make a consistent transition to civil non-politician authorities. However, as I have said, this is, as a starting point, a positive proposal which will benefit the individual applicant. Hopefully this will mean shorter processing time. We therefore have some questions about the possibility of obtaining a derogation, because it is of course of no use if there are people who are unable to fill out such a schedule because they cannot find out how to use a computer and who, because of it, are prevented or greatly hampered the possibility of obtaining citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226142821	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance, as the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226142831	Thank you. Right of birth is a serious matter. In fact, it is an important step for the individual to take, and it is an important step for Denmark to grant citizenship and thereby grant citizenship. Unfortunately, in Denmark at the moment, we find that applications from applicants who do not meet the criteria and who are unable to grant citizenship under the rules can not be dealt with in a parliamentary committee, and then we have a majority that says 'yes' in general terms. And we think that's bad. But that's not what this bill is about. It is a matter of facilitating administration, and it is a natural extension of what we have previously adopted here in the Folketing about the public approach, namely to digitise the whole area. And it actually seems that things are going better than possibly worried had been feared. There are the necessary derogations to the effect that, if you cannot and cannot do so, you can still go away without the digital solution being an absolute requirement. This is the case in the other areas in relation to the public sector, and it is also in this draft law, which is why we do not really have any objections to the draft law. In fact, we believe that it can be both a relief and a good legislative proposal to put into practice. What we are more concerned about is whether we can change the practical use of it and the granting of citizenship, but that is something quite different, it is politics. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143019	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143024	So, I think we agree that at the moment the red majority is simply saying yes to all derogations, and that is to say also to exceptions to the language requirements which we consider to be absolutely essential and necessary in terms of obtaining Danish citizenship. Unfortunately, that is the reality of today. It's sad, it's shameful, but it's just reality. However, what I would like to say is that I think it is reasonable to go down and have a conversation with a policeman or woman, and that, as it were, it is a form of control, precisely because the language is so important. Then you can check that they can speak Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143120	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143122	I fully agree with what the questioner said at the beginning, namely that unfortunately we have a majority in here who grants it and says yes to a lot of languages, which we too in my party attach great importance to. That is also what our votes bear the stamp of week after week. One can then hope that at some point we will not carry the cardboard boxes around, but that that part of it could also be digitised here in the house. But we get boxes, and even though there is a whole range that does not meet the language requirements, the majority here in the Danish Parliament is finally saying yes. I fully agree that this is a matter of deep concern. However, we believe that this draft law can lead to a practice, and we respect the fact that it is a civil task to work on these areas and to ensure that it is done properly before, if necessary, making an application and seeking a derogation. When the educational institutions for languages we have say yes or no to whether we have passed the test, we have confidence that it is right and that we can base our decision on it. That's the way it should be. Otherwise, we will have to wait for the first examples of that not being right. We have confidence in it, and on that basis we say yes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143245	Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143247	Yeah, yeah, I get that. But it might be that I could move the rapporteur a little in my direction, because the point is that the demands made for these tests have also been relaxed. The fact that you can speak in Danish and make yourself understandable to a police officer, I think, after all, that can be a certain kind of guarantee that language skills are in order, that you can commit yourself in the ordinary community.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143322	Now the rapporteur knows very well that, after the last parliamentary elections, the red majority reached a settlement on this issue, which, incidentally, we see a transcript of every week as the beginning of the debate and the vote on these individual cases, and that is why it is in my imagination, at least, that, in the majority that may be after a choice, which hopefully has a different colour, a conciliation is reached on what the requirements should be, so that we can have a treatment that does not lead to the practice we have today, but exactly the opposite. There you can then adopt exactly the requirements and documentation requirements that need to be, for example. We also attach great importance to language requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143404	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143416	The Minister of Justice can do this very briefly by thanking the broad support for the proposal here and giving a commitment, not least to the Enhedslisten and to the Left, who are asking specific questions, the Enhedslisten, in view of the fact that it is of course essential to ensure that those people and citizens who for various reasons do not have immediate access to the digital are nevertheless properly treated, and the Left raises an equally relevant question that the police, where the police have a relevance, can, of course, continue to be involved in the proceedings. Just a commitment that these questions will, of course, be answered in committee, and so I am delighted that in another area we are using new technology both for the benefit of citizens and, as such, for the benefit of the authorities, so that we can reduce the processing time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143507	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143522	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226143556	I cannot be as brief as the previous point. On the contrary, I will probably be taking a lot of speaking time here. I would actually like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for the discussion on the way in which we work with the implementation of EU material in the Parliamentary Assembly. This is typically a discussion in committees and ministries; I think it is a good thing that we have the opportunity to discuss it here in Parliament. I would also like to say that it is important for the government, as well as for the proposers, that the implementation of EU legislation does not impose unnecessary burdens on our business community. And a number of initiatives have been taken in the field of enterprise and growth, for example. the establishment of the Enterprise Forum, and also the recent decision to strengthen the business impact assessments of new legislation with the provision of new and detailed guidance. I believe that the proposers and we in the government agree that this is an important area, and I therefore hope that we can now find a common understanding of the further progress in relation to the specific content of the proposal. As can be seen from the statutory quality guide, if the draft law overfulfills minimum obligations under Union law, it should be stated in the comments on a legislative proposal. It is also clear from the guidance that the consequences of this over-fulfilment should be referred to as necessary in the section on consequences of the legislative notes. In this context, over-fulfilment is to be understood as cases in which the transposition into Danish law of an EU legal minimum obligation lays down stricter requirements than are necessary after the act. Often it will be the case in the environmental field that the EU has adopted minimum obligations, and then there may be states that want to go further and introduce a higher level of protection. As mentioned above, the relationship with EU law must be described in a draft law's observations, and it is true, as the proposers state, that this key legal requirement is described by the word should be in the legal quality guidance of the Ministry of Justice. When the word should be used in the guidance, it is primarily because I, as Minister of Justice, cannot instruct the other ministers in the government. In fact, we might wish to do so at times, but I cannot do so, and I have no reason to believe that any new government constellations will introduce such access for future ministers of justice. However, regardless of what I can or I cannot do as the Minister of Justice, it is perhaps important for me to say to the Danish Parliament today that the word should be both perceived and practiced as a "must" so that what the proposers want. This is therefore an obligation to comply with the drafting of legislative proposals, and this is therefore more than a declaration of intent. However, on the basis of the motion for a resolution tabled here, I think that we can clarify this even more clearly, and that is why I would suggest that the Ministry of Justice clarify to the other ministries, in the next letter on legislative matters, that the section on relations with EU law should be seen as a'must', i.e. what the proposers want. It is the case that a shepherd's letter from the Ministry of Justice is sent out in an annual update of the law quality guide. It must come from the Ministry of Justice during the spring or early summer, and that is where we can clarify what the proposers want. When it comes to announcements, the situation is that no comments are written on notices. This was also the case under the previous government and under governments prior to the previous government. However, it has recently been decided, in a broad circle, that major economic consequences of a notice should now be described in the consultation letter to a draft notice. This also applies to the economic consequences of any over-fulfilment of minimum obligations under EU law. So there too I hope that we can reach agreement on making that practice work. In addition, I understand the motion for a resolution as asking for an information obligation to be imposed on the government in relation to the implementation of EU legal obligations, so that Parliament should be informed of this in all cases. The government thus agrees with the proposers that it is important that the Folketing can easily and easily monitor how EU legislation is implemented in Denmark, and therefore the government is also prepared to introduce as something new a system whereby the Folketing receives a communication when the European Commission has been notified of the transposition of a directive into Danish law. The regulation is directly applicable and should therefore not be implemented, but the authors of the motion for a resolution have a lot to say about it, because these are very EU-savvy people. Such a system will include both notices and laws transposing a directive. So an information system that we do not know today. This part of the motion for a resolution falls within the sphere of the Foreign Minister, and I can imagine that we would like to have a discussion on the details, and that should probably be with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But summing up: a rather positive expression on our part. We cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands in its entirety, particularly in the light of the first part of my speech. However, I think that we can reach a good agreement on the individual points. We are therefore prepared to accept the various proposals. We will make a clarification in the legislative quality guide and a system of increased information will be introduced for the Folketing on the implementation of EU legal obligations. And in view of this, I hope that we can reach a common understanding in an area that I think is important to all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144239	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144243	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the Minister for the very positive approach to the resolution and for the fact that we now need to create at least more openness on how to implement EU rules in Danish law. I would also like to pay tribute to the official work of the Ministry of Business and Growth, which has been very busy getting guidance in place here prior to today's debate. And it is very good that there is now broad agreement that we should have assessed the economic consequences of what we are doing. But what I would like to ask the Minister is how does the Minister intend to monitor this in the future? Because I have asked the Minister to what extent the Council ministers are complying with the guidance already given at the present time, and the Minister cannot say anything about that. So how is the Minister going to ensure that individual ministers are now following up on this and are both doing so in relation to the legislation, but indeed also in relation to announcements?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144344	I think it is important for all ministries to comply with the rules that we are laying down together. I am so incredibly reluctant to introduce a lot of new bureaucracy and are always concerned about how to ensure that our resources are used in the best possible way. So we can talk about how we can do some kind of monitoring. I just do not want to get into such a new bureaucratic, large system and, of course, I believe that the ministries are complying with the agreements that exist. If we sharpen these various things, it will also be my expectation that it will happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144417	Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144418	Yes, but so far we have not been able to obtain the information we have asked for. When I have asked for a review of what has been EU requirements in the legislation and what has been Danish requirements, that is not something that can be answered immediately. And what I need to know is how the Folketing can get to know it in the future, and not least in relation to announcements. After all, the minister has just answered me a question about how we actually implement EU law in Danish law, and the figure for 2014 is that 90%. by means of notices. That is why it is absolutely crucial for the Members of Parliament to be able to follow how EU law is implemented, that we get a knowledge of it and can rely on the Resort Ministers to provide that information. And I think the Minister owes us an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144515	Well, I understand the interest, and I kind of think it's very legitimate. We should, of course, have an overview of why we legislate as we do and what, so to speak, is on our own initiative and what is EU material. When I do not think we should go through the existing legislation, it is because it would be quite resource-intensive if we were to ask officials in all areas of the resort to sit down and read through all legislation with related announcements to clarify what is EU material and what is not. I think there are so many other tasks that should be given priority. But, on the other hand, I think the proposers are right that we should ensure that we do so in the future, and there is also a commitment that we will find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144559	Mrs Pia Adelsteen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144602	Thank you from here too for the positive announcement. I understand that, on behalf of the government, the Minister cannot agree to the motion for a resolution, because the Minister must correct me and now the Minister if I have misunderstood it cannot say "must' to other ministers, but only "should'. But if a majority in the Folketing adopts it, then we can say that the ministers must • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144629	I therefore believe that the right of instruction for the Ministry of Justice and the Minister should continue to apply. There is a reason why changing governments have chosen that this is how it works within the central administration. I am not going to go into any further detail on this issue here, but I would call for the current system to be maintained. And then, in my speech, I have already indicated that it is actually unnecessary, because that should be seen as a must rather than a should. I would very, very much like to emphasise this in the light of the discussion here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144707	Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144708	I'm hanging a lot in this little word because I think there's a real difference. I may just have a little difficulty in understanding that if you keep the word, but next to sending a paper to all ministers that they should see it as a shell, then everything is good. On someone like me, it just seems pretty illogical, which is why I just have to repeat the question. I think, of course, that if there is a majority in the Danish Parliament, we can surely impose on all ministers that they should do things this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144743	What matters is whether it becomes clearer how we implement and, in some respects, overimplement the EU substance. If we can find a common understanding that it is necessary to clarify and emphasise what the proposers want, then I hope that this can be a viable way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144803	Sir. Lars Barfoed for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144805	I would also like to thank the Minister for his attendance here. I think it is good that we can agree that this should be the case in the future. It is of course both the former and the present government that has not had such a shell, but when we see how things are developing in the EU regulatory area, it is important that there is as much transparency as possible and that the Folketing is also involved and aware of what is going on as much as possible. That is why we have found that it should be written in the instructions rather than in the instructions. Then it's a little strange that the minister says the minister can't write shell, but that the minister can write that should mean shell. In the end, it's the same thing. Could it not be imagined that at a ministerial meeting on Tuesday, the Prime Minister was persuaded to tell the government that it should be written when there is over-implementation? It is well that the Prime Minister can instruct all ministers to write the paper, and then the Minister of Justice can write in the instructions that, as the Prime Minister has decided, you have to do it, and then it is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144916-2	Now there is a tradition that a Minister of Justice does not instruct other ministers, and whatever one may think of it, I believe that most who have either been or are or become ministers will soon accept that they are not instructing their Prime Minister in any respect whatsoever. I'm not going to do that in this context either. However, I think it is natural that the general circle of our EU policy can of course also have a discussion on the basis of the discussion here in the Folketing today. I do not really hear that we disagree with the importance and importance of the issues raised, so it is probably more of a methodological discussion on how we do it best. I think we fully agree with the content.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144956	Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226144957	Fortunately, that sounds like it. I understand that the Minister for Justice does not think he can instruct the Prime Minister either, but it has been so before that a Minister for Justice can give a Prime Minister a good advice and tell him that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament who has this view. Then it might be that the Prime Minister listened to the good advice of the Minister of Justice and said so at the ministerial meeting on Tuesdays and then there would be free for the Minister of Justice to write the should. That's just good advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145026-2	I hope that, on the basis of the hand I believe to have stretched forward in this discussion, we too can reach an agreement between the parties of the Danish Parliament on how we do this best, and then I can convey that message to the Prime Minister afterwards. It will still be my hope, because I am trying to meet the proposers with all the opportunities I have. So I also hope that we can find a common solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145054	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145057	Thank you. I would also like to thank you very much for your positive attitude. There's like two blocks in this, and we need to figure out how to reach each other. And as I am listening to it, we are quite in agreement on what we should like to achieve, and this is about the wordings. The question of whether it should be "should" or "should," and the question of who instructs whom, maybe we have an opportunity to drill out a little more if we agree that the intention is that this should be understood as a "should." We have to find out. What I really want to ask is the second part of that: monitoring, where I understand that the Minister of Justice does not, of course, want to build large bureaucratic systems. I don't think anyone in the Folketing does either. But should I interpret it in such a way that the Minister thinks that it is as it should be that there is no need to do any further on this point?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145150	I am always open to good ideas, and I think it is quite legitimate that the Danish Parliament, and especially those in the Danish Parliament who are working closely with the EU drug, would like to be able to keep in mind that whether it says "should" or "should" it actually also be implemented. That is why I do not reject any good ideas on how we can become even clearer about it. All I'm saying is that I don't want to build such very large bureaucratic systems, nor about monitoring, but if we can find a way, then I certainly don't reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145221	Then we thank the Minister for Justice and go to the rapporteur's line. Here's Jacob Lund for the Social Democrats the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145239	With this motion for a resolution, the proposers will ensure that the Folketing always receives full information on the implementation of EU directives and regulations in the future. We Social Democrats can only agree with this. It goes without saying that the Folketing must always take decisions on an informed basis, and when it comes to implementing what comes from the European Union, there must be transparency in the process of what is required in relation to EU law, when we choose to go beyond these obligations and what consequences it can have. On the other hand, we certainly cannot recognise it when it is pointed out in the motion for a resolution that over-use of EU law always goes beyond our competitiveness. During our reign, we have adopted a large number of initiatives which take account of the fact that the competitiveness of businesses will not be weakened when we implement EU law. We have most recently made it easier to understand it, because all ministries have to draw up economic impact assessments of future legislative proposals, and that assessment will show whether there is over-fulfilment and any EU legal obligations, as well as what consequences it will have. That is why the measures called for in the motion for a resolution are a long way from being a reality. At the same time, during our reign, we have listened carefully to it when the business community has pointed out that Danish legislation puts our companies in a competitive disadvantage. And in a number of cases this has led to changes in the way we implement EU law. In addition, we have carried out and launched a so-called neighbouring check. It provides an overview of the consequences of the legislation as to whether it affects our competitiveness in comparison with our neighbouring countries. It is all to ensure that Danish companies are competitive. However, there are also a number of cases in which we in Denmark have chosen to over-fulfil EU law requirements. And in these cases we have some special circumstances and bets in Denmark that make it make sense. We have among other things. in the environmental field, it was considered necessary to have a higher level of protection than that necessarily envisaged by the Union's commitments. We must do the right thing in order to preserve the Denmark we know, and that is why, in conclusion, I would like to reiterate, for the sake of good order, that the Socialists naturally agree that Parliament should have the opportunity to take its decisions on a fully informed basis, but we also believe that the necessary measures have already been taken far along the way, which the motion for a resolution proposes. The Socialists cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145525	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen who speaks for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145534	Thank you. At first sight, I think that is a very good proposal. For a very long time we have been trying to find out through the discussions that are, every time we talk about EU legislation, what is EU legislation, what is over-implementation, whether we have now made things too difficult in Denmark, etc. etc. whether we are making demands on our businesses, on our agriculture, which other EU countries are not doing, and thus distorting the competitiveness that might exist, which is actually a bad thing in relation to the internal market, which we all want to have and where we want to have this level playing field. That is why it has actually been the case for some time now that the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs in particular has asked a lot of questions about over-implementation, how things have been implemented, whether there is an over-implementation, etc., where it has to be said that the answers have been a little shameful, because we have simply not been able to find out what is actually going to happen. When you live in a democracy where we are a member of a large association such as the European Union, I think that at least and we in the Danish People's Party do that it is very important to know what it is that comes from the European Union, what it is that we implement, which is EU rules and what we want. Because it can be perfectly legitimate wishes you have. It is just important to know when it is one and when it is the other, because then we also know what we can change and what we need to change via the European Union. That is why I think this openness is so important. That is also why, despite the Minister's positive statement, I get a little annoyed that a word like "should" cannot be immediately changed to "must." I hope it can, because it is important. So far it has been there, it has been in the guidance that has existed since 2005. Then you could say that it should just have been followed and that everyone knows how important it is. But it has not been, and that is why we are asking for the word to be changed. It's just so important! One of the things that can be shocked and, as Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen also mentioned, this is the announcement. One thing is when directives are adopted that we implement, and that goes through legislation and so on. Then we have it in the Parliamentary Chamber, we can stand and discuss it and say this is the European Union and so on. But another thing is when it comes to announcements. I must admit that I was somewhat shocked by the reply given to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen on a question about how many announcements are just being implemented without us knowing it in the Folketing. That's more than 90 percent.! It's somewhere shocking it's actually. This is, of course, something we also need to know here in the Folketing, that is, what comes from the European Union, how it is implemented and what is actually happening, otherwise we will not be able to change it. It is my feeling that most people support this proposal, so I very much hope that we can find a solution so that we can change things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145850	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226145903	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we also have a great deal of sympathy for this resolution, in particular the part about openness. I don't think we can disagree on that. However, I must say that the Radical Left cannot therefore support this resolution, as it has been tabled by the four bourgeois parties, right now, and we agree with the Minister for Justice that it requires some kind of debate, because I do not think we are so far apart from each other in the very purpose of it. Let me start with the Danish business community, which is also of great concern to the Radical Left, where the wish of the proposers is to make it clear what the consequences of the implementation of EU legislation are for Danish companies. This is the question that has just been included in the "Growth Package 2014" and which has now been translated into this specific guide on economic impact assessments, which was published here on 3 February 2015. The impact assessment includes, in addition to the administrative burdens and as something new, the direct or indirect costs that may be incurred by enterprises in terms of training, safety and other matters. I think this is positive, and it is also one of the demands of the bourgeois parties. After all, the impact assessment must also describe when the government, in a legislative proposal, calls for higher standards in Denmark than those required by EU legal minimum obligations. It also appears that the impact assessment is part of the draft law's observations and thus part of the legislative proposal both at the hearing and at the time of its submission, and thus it becomes very visible. In fact, the guidance also states that for notices, this impact assessment must be attached when it is sent in consultation. These are some good things that I really hope will also meet some of the concerns of the authors of the motion for a resolution. I think that the second part of what is about openness in legal work is also very important. This is something we would like to support, but not to repeat much of what has been said, I think it might boil down to the question of a should or a should. And I would like to say that we consider that, in the light of the current guide on the quality of legislation, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on this and precisely on the question that, to the extent that you are over-fulfiling, you must also explain it. At first glance, I think that it does not matter whether it says "should" or "should," if you agree that it is of course good practice to do so. However, I would like to say again, as the Minister for Justice has also suggested, that we have to look at it in the further examination of the proposal in order to see whether we in the Ministry need to clarify further that this is something that we naturally expect to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226150158	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226150208	Like most others, we consider it important that adequate information is given to the Folketing. And not least when it comes to matters relating to the European Union, it is important that the Folketing is properly informed. That is why we have sympathy for the intentions of this motion for a resolution, but it is possible to discuss whether the form is the right one, i.e. whether the subject is suitable for a major debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly. That is why, having heard the Minister of Justice, I think that he is gracious and open to finding a solution to the problem that I would like to propose to the proposers: let us go to committee after this first reading and make a report where we jointly find what needs to be done in order for things to improve. And that's the way it's done.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226150315	Thank you to the SF rapporteur, and then we go to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226150333	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we are positive about the proposal. We very much disagree with some of the criticism that comes from the right, for example, when it is said that it is problematic to have better environmental and consumer protection in Denmark than the EU sometimes requires us to have here at home. In fact, for us in the Enhedslisten, it is often a problem that the European Union prevents us from taking the lead in the green area. It is not just an attitude we have because we want green conversion in Denmark and want to take good care of the environment. That is something that has proved to be economically sensible. If you look at Apple's recent decision to invest billions in Denmark, you see that it is a decision that has been made on the basis that we have good environmental rules and green energy. So, in terms of competitiveness too, it can actually be very important to ensure good consumer protection and good environmental rules. On the other hand, we are critical of the fact that time and again, on the part of the government, sometimes, with the support of the majority in the Danish Parliament, the EU's economic governance follows everything, although we do have a situation in which the Danes have voted against the euro. I think there are problems with how EU policy has been followed both by the current government and by the previous government. However, the background to our position in this matter is that we basically want there to be transparency about the implementation of EU legislation in Denmark. We want the political debate on how to implement the EU's economic governance or environmental legislation, or how to go beyond the EU or stay away from following the EU, to take place on the basis of knowledge and not on the basis of ignorance. That is why we also want better information for Parliament on the implementation of EU legislation, and that is why we have chosen to be positive about the proposal that we are debating today in the Parliamentary Assembly. At the same time, of course, we are looking forward to discussions in committee and our clear position is that we are positive about what is on the table for discussion here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226150611	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Mette Bock who speaks for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226150618	Thank you. Sometimes it is also very good in relation to resolutions to do the non-test. If you do not do the test on this proposal, you have to ask yourself who it really is that is against there being greater openness and who really is against us being able to see through what it is that is due to EU decisions and where it is that we are overimplementing in Denmark. That is why I find it extremely difficult to see that one can be against it, and I can also see that some of the rapporteurs from those parties who cannot support this motion for a resolution are wringing a great deal to find good arguments in order to actually oppose it. So I'm really wondering. There is also another thing that I sometimes ask myself, and that is: if we now had another government and another opposition, I could imagine if we had a blue government that a red opposition had put forward exactly the same thing, and then it could have been interesting to take the discussion from there. We are co-sponsors of this proposal, and we are, because the lack of transparency on EU issues is, after all, helping to increase the real mistrust and lack of confidence that what comes from the European Union is good in most cases and not bad in most cases. This is a trend that is not only seen in Denmark, but is seen in many of the Member States of the European Union. If you have to try to meet this, because we also have an opportunity in the Danish Parliament to go in and say: There is something here that we need to implement, but is there a reason why we need to overimplement on these and those points? When we joined the Community at the time, it was in order to create a level playing field and to establish closer cooperation between the Member States of the Community. Today, however, it has become so complicated and the European Union is part of so many decisions that it is not only the ordinary people, but certainly also us parliamentary politicians, who find it difficult to see things through. It is good to hear from the Minister for Justice that there is an openness to see if we can reach each other on this point. We can see today that the instructions that are given are not being followed, and we can also see that, at least for me, there is a surprisingly large number of announcements that are just implemented, without us even being incredibly mystery and keeping up with everything that comes along here on the part of the Folketing. I very much hope that we will be able to find a solution to this, because if everyone agrees on the intentions of it, and that is what I hear, it should be able to be lifted out of the ordinary political teasing where one votes against, just because the proposal comes from another side of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226150928	A brief comment from Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226150929	Thank you. Now Mrs Mette Bock asked almost a direct question to us and the Socialists, and I think we should perhaps reflect on that. What bothers me a little in this motion for a resolution is what it says in the comments that if Denmark over-implements or over-fulfills EU legislation, it should be almost unequivocally bad. I very much disagree with that, because it is a political issue. It is a question of whether we want greater protection in the field of the environment, animal welfare, health and other matters. I think it should be legitimate. And the premise and premise, as in the comments to this motion for a resolution, that it should be clearly poor for Danish industry and Danish companies to do so, I simply do not recognise. That is why my question to Mrs Mette Bock is this: does Mrs Mette Bock think that over-implementation and over-fulfilment of EU legislation are always bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151027	I certainly do not think so. As far as I'm concerned, there's nothing of value in it at all. What this is all about is creating transparency so that we can relate to whether we think that a given over-implementation is good and that we therefore support it or whether we think it is bad and therefore want to prevent it. So for me, it's completely value-neutral. It is about transparency and openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151050	Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151051	I very much agree with that. But I see it in reality as two discussions: a discussion on whether it is generally a problem that we are over-filling and another debate on openness. I very much agree with the latter, and the Minister for Justice has also said that we must work on it. But then I think that in the future we should try to look at some of the comments that this over-fulfiling should be clearly bad, for example. for Danish business. If you can work on it a little, I think you can actually reach each other. My question to Mrs Mette Bock is this: is there something that you are willing to look at and soften up on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151128	Well, I don't know how to soften it up. I think that this is a separate political discussion with regard to each proposal and with regard to the individual possible over-implementation that we can take as an open political discussion. We can have different views on it, and a majority must then implement it as it pleases. But that must depend on the specific political issue on the agenda. This is all about creating that transparency so that we can actually have the political discussions that we sometimes simply do not have because we cannot see things through.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151202	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151233	When we have tabled the proposal here together from some parties, it is because we think it is important that we develop the way in which the Folketing works with EU material all the time. The European Union is developing, and then we must also develop the way we work with the EU substance. There is, of course, a historical tradition, I would have liked to say, that we in the Danish Parliament are at the forefront of Europe when it comes to involving Parliament in the discussion of EU proposals. Now many other parliaments around Europe have caught up with us, but we should always be working to be at the forefront, because it is therefore important that Members of Parliament are aware of what is happening when it comes to EU regulation, because EU regulation is actually part of national regulation. And, in national contexts, we always want to know how much we impose burdens on businesses and citizens, restrictions and rules and prohibitions and opportunities and also rights. That is why it is quite natural for us to ask for this transparency for EU rules when over-implemented. And that is why I am glad that the Minister has given an undertaking that this will be met by the Minister. The minister then does not think that this is the case with ministers rarely that the minister has to meet the opposition's way of doing so. We should not just say yes to what we are proposing, so the Minister says: no, not that way, but I will do exactly the same just in a different way. Let's discuss it, it's not about that. But I have also noted that some of the rapporteurs here, Mr. Jacob Lund and Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen, was a little busy thinking about what could be read in the comments on the proposal. I think, sir. Jacob Lund said that overimplementation always diminishes, damages, competitiveness, and Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen had some considerations that we wrote in the comments that it is clearly poor when overimplemented and that it is clearly bad when overimplemented. That's what Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen. Therefore, the two rapporteurs said, those parties could not support our proposal, but if we could change it, then we could support it. That is very funny, because the remarks do not say that at all. So you come up with something that is not in the comments, and then you say that if we change what is not in the comments, then you want to support our proposal. But then I can tell the two rapporteurs that it is not in the comments, and since it is not in the comments, for which they quote the comments, I assume that the proposal can be supported. What is stated in the comments on the case of over-implementation and what it means is that over-implementation affects Denmark's competitiveness and has significant economic and administrative implications for business and individual citizens. And I guess that's the way it is. I take the view that over-implementation is often quite sensible. Of course, sometimes it can be useful and right to overimplement something, and then we do it. What we are asking for is just that it is clear when you do it and that you have to tell when you do it, so the Folketing knows that there will be over-implemented here. It's kind of just that. Having now, hopefully, corrected the interpretation of both the Social Democrats and the Radicals rapporteur, it was not just an interpretation, but a misreading of the remarks, I hope that the Social Democrats and the Radical Left will be able to support the resolution when we vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151628	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151631	It may well be that I have expressed myself wrongly, because my speech paper says precisely that we are not overimplementing and that we cannot recognise that it creates over-implementation and thus creates that problem. However, my question to the rapporteur is more about this link between openness and over-implementation, because the two things are linked in the proposal, and that is what my problem is about this issue. Let us separate the two things and look at openness and over-implementation separately, because I agree with the rapporteur that over-implementation can be quite sensible in some respects and that very many of our companies want over-implementation in many of their products, in terms of how it should be. However, in terms of transparency, we agree on how it should be, and that is where we have to tackle it, in terms of how we do it and how we distribute it. Don't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151740	In any case, we do not agree that it should be separated by overimplementation from transparency. The proposal is precisely to create visibility about it when over-implemented. Then we can't take it apart. So I don't quite know where it is, sir. Jacob Lund wants to go with it. But let me give you an example of what we are talking about: a completely random example. Let us take salmon in the Baltic Sea. There are some requirements on the part of the European Union as regards the content of heavy metals in salmon. Then we decide in Denmark that we will impose stricter requirements on how much heavy metal there must be in a salmon caught by, let us say by chance a Bornholm fisherman. Wouldn't that be the case, sir? Jacob Lund would say: that is an overimplementation which could well be a little damaging to some Bornholm fishermen, and should we at least know that in the Folketing before we do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151844	Jacob Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151845	I agree, at least in this respect of openness and the fact that we need to know what we are doing before we do so, so we will take a political decision on what we will find out when we come to have that agreement. This is so different from how we implement it. But I do not understand this view of over-implementation. It cannot be included in my paragraph. However, we must, of course, have transparency about what we are adopting before we adopt it. I fully agree with that. We have plenty of companies, but we can easily stick to the salmon for that matter. There are still plenty of opportunities to fish salmon, although there are some other limit values for the dioxin content of the Bornholm food products. At any rate, I just think that we should have openness, and we are in complete agreement on that. Transparency and knowledge of what it is about is what is most important.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226151945	But we have to discuss it in committee. I can't hear sir. Jacob Lund in any other way than that we agree on that and I think that's a good starting point... that we should know what we're doing before we do it. I think it is a good starting point that we agree on this. Then I get it, sir. Jacob Lund, that Mr. Jacob Lund does not entirely agree that we need to know when we overimplement before we do so. I'm just saying that I think we should know if we overimplement before we do it. That's what I understand, sir. Jacob Lund doesn't quite agree with that. It may be that I misunderstand, sir. Jacob Lund, but we will have to take it during the committee work and see if we can arrange for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152020	A brief comment from Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152023	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Lars Barfoed for reading me the comments. I guess I misunderstood them. It may well be a longer semantic discussion, but that is, what it says is: Overimplementation affects Denmark's competitiveness and has significant economic and administrative consequences for business and individual citizens. It is, of course, a very general view which stands in stark contrast to that, Mr. Lars Barfoed himself says that we must assess this on a case-by-case basis, which I very much agree with. It is precisely an assessment that takes place on a case-by-case basis. Sometimes there will be a load, sometimes there will be no load. That is why, as I said earlier, it is simply a general view which may offend me a little, because it is of such a general nature. And I agree that it is precisely on a case-by-case basis that we assess whether what is stated in the comments here is correct. So that is more the discussion we have, and if we can sort of get out of it and agree on what the rapporteur is saying here, namely that it is the individual issues we are dealing with in relation to over-implementation, then I think we are in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152131	It's a good thing we're in agreement. Then all we have to do is agree on what we agree on, but perhaps we will do so in committee. I just have to say, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen therefore said that we wrote in the comments that overimplementing was unequivocally poor and clearly bad. That is not what the remarks say. That's all I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152153	Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152154	Yeah, and you can read that differently. It is quite true that there is no clear word, but there is the general statement that there will be a burden of overimplementation, and that is just what I challenge: that will not necessarily always be the case. That is my only comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152214	I mean, it says it affects competitiveness, and it does. It can then do so in different ways, but generally overimplementation affects competitiveness in different ways and to different degrees. Sometimes we are also in a situation where we say that we do. And competitiveness is getting a little worse, but it has some other good effects on the environment or health, or whatever, and then we do it. But we just need to know that we're doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152239	A brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152242	Thank you. I believe that the citizens of Viborg, who are now getting a billion-dollar investment from Apple, are pleased that we have had good demands on energy and have prioritised a green transition in Denmark. But I would like to use my speech to express my thanks to Mr Seligman. Lars Barfoed, for mr. Lars Barfoed points out some of what this discussion is really about, by raising the question of whether we should give priority to consumer safety over economic interests, in other words whether we should remove heavy metals in salmon, or whether we should take account of the economic interests that may be involved in having fish with heavy metals served to consumers at home in the evenings. This is a relevant political discussion in which I am quite sure that Enhedslisten disagrees with the Conservatives. But it also shows why it is so important to have openness about this, because we are far better off having a political debate in Denmark about whether or not there may be heavy metals in fish rather than a debate about over-implementation. That is why the Enhedslisten is in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152355	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Nikolaj Villumsen thanks me for my speech. It is rare, and that is why I should like to note it as a special anniversary. However, apart from that, I do not think I have said anything about allowing heavy metals in salmon to a greater extent than the European Union allows, or vice versa. I have just said that such issues are, of course, relevant to clarify. If we want tougher demands, we just need to know that we will. And then I say that it is sometimes sensible enough to do so because it benefits health or it benefits the environment or it benefits consumer safety or something else. Then it can sometimes be sensible to do so, and then we have to do it. We just need to know that here we are overimplementing. That is the transparency that we are calling for. It is now the case with heavy metals in salmon, moreover, that the European Union is demanding that the level should not be so high as to harm health.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152449	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152451	Well, I look forward to a continued discussion on consumer safety in relation to economic interests and, of course, it must be taken on an enlightened basis. That is why today's debate in the Parliamentary Assembly is so relevant. So I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152507	Well, so do I. There is just one element, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen skilfully avoids mentioning, but when we speak of competitiveness, it means jobs for Danish citizens. And that is where I hope we also agree that it must always be included in an overall assessment that if over-implementation is detrimental to competitiveness and thus means fewer Danish jobs in industry or in agriculture, or where I know it is an element that must also be taken into account. I hope so, as Enhedslisten agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152543	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226152551	After all, I can continue in the trail and thank Mr. Simpson. Lars Barfoed said that in the debate here he has actually received Mr. Helge Vagn Jacobsen to almost regret his rejection of the proposal and nod that we might be able to find each other in this area. On the whole, I would like to thank you for the debate, and I would particularly like to highlight Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's clear clarification that we need to know what we are doing and that this must be done on an open basis. That is why today's debate in Parliament is very relevant, and I have to say that I do not understand at all, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen's words that he does not think it is so relevant to take this discussion in Parliament. Our challenge is, of course, that we have been discussing this with the implementation of EU rules for many years without actually getting a hold on what is being done in this area. And I have to say that it has been revealed by my many questions to various ministers that there is no overview in the ministries. There's no record. We have no idea to what extent we are over-implemented or under-implemented or how we deal with things. My wish is that we should now create transparency so that we can have transparency about what are EU-relevant requirements and what are Danish requirements, so that we know what we are dealing with. As Mr. Jacob Lund emphasized in his rapporteur's speech that this is the whole prerequisite for making the impact assessments that diligent officials in the Ministry of Business and Growth have been sitting there with in order to get this guidance on impact assessments in place prior to today's debate. And I would like to pay tribute to that. I think it is a very good work that has been done because it has just been understood that it is not only about legislative proposals but indeed about announcements. I would like to thank the Minister for a very open and welcoming approach to discussing this further. In the course of the committee's work, we now need to clarify why it should be so difficult for the Minister of Justice to use the word, and thus to have powers of instruction vis-à-vis the Council of Ministers. We need to have a thorough legal review of why it should be so problematic, when the word should now be understood as meaning that a shepherd letter should actually be sent to the ministers so that they understand that the word should actually mean "must" and that you have to do so. That's the one we need to unveil. The second is that we need to keep talking about how we're gonna make sure that this is actually going to happen. For the Ministry of Justice's guidance on the quality of law has contained these provisions, and no one can answer whether you have actually followed the rules, whether you have followed them, and whether you have understood that it is actually a shell. I think it is really bad for our people's government that we are simply not able to answer whether it is actually being respected. So we need to find out what kind of registration is going to take place in the future, what kind of monitoring is going to take place and who is actually responsible for this being followed up. This is something that we need the Minister of Justice to offer and find solutions to, and I would like to sign for the Minister's commitment that we should have a joint solution to it. Furthermore, I very much agree with the Minister that we should not have large, chrome-plated bureaucratic models, but something that allows us Members of Parliament to say that we have taken decisions on an enlightened basis, with open eyes, and know what we are going to do and that we know the consequences of this and know what elements are included in the decisions we are taking here in the Folketing. Moreover, like several of my colleagues, I would like to point out that we have just received the figures for EU rules that have been implemented in Danish law in recent years. And there's the surprising figure, I think that for 2014 it's 9.1% implemented through legislation, and 90.3%. by means of notices. It highlights something that we need to have a better knowledge of what happens when implementing through announcements. What kind of things will the Danish Parliament be able to work with in the future, and how will we know how the implementation takes place? Otherwise, of course, we are completely out of touch with the follow-up to EU decisions. With these words, I would like to thank you for today's debate and I look forward to having a very good committee dealing with the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153102	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153121	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153144	Thank you. Let me start by saying what my basic position on this issue is. I think you should not smoke hashish; I think you should not smoke hashish and drive; and I think you should stay away from traffic when you are affected, and that is when you have smoked hashish. The de minimis or zero limit adopted by a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, which has considered that hashish driving in blood is an expression of a risk behaviour that we should not tolerate, I think should continue to be part of our legislation. The de minimis is based on a knowledge that the consumption of hashish generally affects the ability to drive a car, which is not so strange as it also affects the ability to do so many other things. Drinking and drug driving are a serious threat to our road safety here in Denmark, and there is nothing, as I started by saying, that in any way justifies going off behind the wheel to the danger to others in traffic and to the danger to themselves. That is why my basic view is that we should be extremely careful about relaxation in this area. The motion for a resolution proposes that persons who lose their driving rights because they are driving in hashly affected conditions should be able to recover the driving rights after a shorter period, and it is also suggested that the sentenced person pay instead of paying a fine for necessary blood tests. Thus, the proposal calls for a real decriminalisation of hashish driving, replacing the penalty with a requirement to pay the costs of the controls. That means that the sanctions that are being imposed today must be abolished. I think that is the wrong way to go. However, as in so many other areas, I have shown my willingness to discuss the motion for a resolution here. We have done so by having a meeting of experts in the circle of legal rapporteurs. I myself thought it was quite a successful meeting. A number of questions were raised, and I do not think it was made clear that there is no link between smoking hashish and driving can be dangerous. That is why we do not support the proposal here. I am aware that a number of cases are currently pending before the courts, which have been asked for blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. To give an opinion on the importance of passive smoking and the violation of the de minimis threshold, it is also some cases that have been mentioned in the media. Once the court has taken a final decision on that issue, the Ministry of Justice, together with the Attorney General, will examine the cases in order to assess whether there is anything in the decisions which may give rise to a re-examination of whether there is a need to amend the legislation. However, as I said, my basic positions on hashish and hashish driving are still the same, so we say no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153504	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153510	There is no doubt that you should not drive if you are too affected to drive. There is no doubt about that. We do not support this either in the SF, and we have also been behind a large number of the austerity measures that have been in this area. But perhaps I think that when the legislation is so uncertain that we do not have a real knowledge of when the impact will end and I really think that what we heard at the expert meeting was that after one day we were usually not affected anymore, but can it still be measured away?The minister does not think that wise legal policy would be to impose a sanction, so that at least the first time people are given a chance? So, doesn't the Minister think that it's a bad approach to the area to send young people who have smoked a party joint and then get fucked 4 days later out of education and work? Should we not impose a sanction in a way that motivates these young people to stop, and then we can let the hammer fall, for example. The second time?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153620	We do not have the same premise for the discussion, that is to say with regard to the kind of loose approach which talks about the fact that a party joint has just been smoked, I think that was the concept that was used and then drives. Well, you can't smoke weed. You shouldn't do that because it's illegal. That is why I am not going to accept the premise on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153641	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153644	No, I understand that it's illegal and that it's 100% people's own responsibility that they smoke. Unfortunately, however, I think that some people have not really seen the connection that they smoked on Saturday at some party. And we just have to acknowledge that a lot of Danes have tried to smoke at some point in their lives. In fact, we have a European record in smoking hashish in Denmark, so there will be a risk that people who do not have an abuse and who, what can be said, did not have the evil will, will be fucked a few days later on a very, very loose basis, where they are not even a danger to road safety. Wouldn't it be a better signal to send to these people that we're saying: well, the first time you do some clean blood tests, or whatever it may be, we can see that you don't actually have an abuse, you can reclaim the license, but the second time, mate, we'll let the hammer fall, because now you know it's serious?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153738-2	I must be quite honest and say that I do not need to send out any other signals than to stop smoking hashish and, of course, to stop smoking hashish and get behind the wheel of a car. And since it is not easy to clarify when people are affected to such an extent that their ability to drive is compromised, I do not see that we have a basis for relaxing. On the contrary, I think that, if we are concerned with signals, we should be thinking about what signals it can send if the Danish Parliament adopts the resolution here. Do you not think that some people will see it as being more legitimate to smoke hashish? I do not want to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153818	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. And then we go to the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226153829	Thank you. After all, we are debating here today a motion for a resolution tabled by the SF on driving in hash affected condition. We in the Left do not agree with the government in everything, but we do agree with the Minister for Justice that hashish is illegal and that therefore you should not take it, no matter how you do it; and that, if you do so, you should refrain from driving. But the problem did not exist if the legislation was complied with. So, of course, we understand this proposal that the SF has put forward, but we would like to maintain that it is our policy in relation to hashish as a drug, and we do not want to change that line. The motion for a resolution deals with two parts. One part does not actually concern what should be legal or illegal in relation to the consumption of hashish, but whether, if I understand the motion for a resolution correctly, there is proportionality between the offence committed, that is, smoking hashish and driving a car, and the punishment that is then given. We have, of course, had some discussions on this in the Confederal Group of the European United Left, and we recognise that we can challenge the question of whether there is proportionality in the fact that, if you are caught with traces of hashish in your blood, and that can also be, many days after you have been paid a monthly salary and lose your driving licence unconditionally for 3 years without the possibility of recovery. That punishment can actually risk keeping people in hashish abuse instead of getting them out of it. That is why we have said publicly and, of course, we stand by the fact that we are willing to discuss whether to look at the proportionality of the sentence. In other words, if you can find a model that ensures that we help people out of hashish abuse instead of keeping them in it, that is common sense in our view. But we are very firm that hashish is, of course, illegal and that, of course, it must also be severely punished when you violate the law in this area; and that, of course, it must also be punished if you sit down in a car and drive it when you are affected by hashish, with the consequences it might have for road safety. As the Minister for Justice also says, we are aware that there is at least a judgment in the Court of Justice which deals precisely with the question of the limit of the number of blood alcohol, that is to say, the zero tolerance here. There we want to await the outcome of that judgment when it is final and then the political debate can be held on whether to look at the proportionality of some of these things. And we are willing to do so in the Left. The second part, which is about setting up a system in relation to which limit values for hashish in blood determine whether or not you can drive the motor vehicle, we do not have such a warm feeling about it. However, we recognise that there can be a challenge to the proportionality of the penalty when it can actually lead to people being kept in their hashish use or abuse instead of getting out of it. And you can think about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154140	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154145	I do not think that the Left is quite as clear as the Left was when soon a few months ago there was a TV feature about this area. Now we are going to wait for a judgment to come, and I am not sure I can change that much, but I just have to ask quite clearly whether this means that the Left is not ready to discuss the proposal at this stage and that the Left is not ready to make a possible report as a follow-up to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154214	I think we could be interested in making a report, but there's a long time before the end of this assembly, and I wonder if we can finish it. As far as I know, the verdict I have at least been given before then. So I think there's room for it. So, what we have said in public, of course, we also mean when we come down here in the Chamber. But it is not a secret either that this is something we are discussing in the Confederal Group of the European United Left and that not everyone thinks that it is a problem that there is a lack of proportionality in the calculation of sentences in this area. Nor is it a secret that this was a punishment which the bourgeois government carried out and which was, of course, aimed at reducing the consumption of hashish and, what is to be said, a smaller proportion of people who were driving in hashish-infected conditions. Something then suggests that the legislation has not worked entirely as intended, and of course we have to deal with that, and we are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154310	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154313	I understand perfectly well that there are dilemmas inherent in this issue, but I would just like to know quite clearly whether this means that we can make a report before the judgment is given in the court or whether it should all wait until after the judgment has been delivered. I think that is quite important, since the Left is quite crucial to the majority that stood, at least before Christmas, in relation to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154338	Well, our starting point is to wait. Now the Minister for Justice said that there are several cases that I know of one, but we can, at the committee reading of this proposal, examine what the timescale is on it, and if it is 2,3,4 years or many months, then we have to deal with it politically. But if the SF sends this proposal to the vote today, we will vote against it on that grounds. But it is not the same thing that we do not want to be involved in making a report. It depends a little on what the report says, it is difficult to know, but we are not opposed in principle to making a report on this. However, we think it would be best to see how the courts interpret the question of zero tolerance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154416	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154422	With the proposal here, the government in this Assembly is required to ensure that the penalties for people who drive motor vehicles in hash affected condition become less severe and consistent. I would like to start by saying that we Social Democrats cannot support this proposal, first of all because too many people die in traffic as a result of drug driving, a number who have even been increasing in recent years. In addition, right now there are matters under way in the Supreme Court that we want to be conducted before we possibly amend the law with a view to proportionality. Like many other countries, we are also looking for new technologies that can carry out better and more accurate measurements. That is why we Social Democrats believe that it is essential that we wait for technological developments. Whatever the case, we cannot escape the fact that it is selfish and quite unreasonable to put others at the risk of being put behind the wheel in the situation of drugs, and with those words I have to say that we Socialists cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154533	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154539	First of all, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has fought a lot to tighten up legislation. We were able to do this with the previous government in this area... in relation to driving in an affected state in connection with the use of drugs. We got a zero tolerance, and we in the Danish People's Party do not want to change that. With regard to what is being proposed in the draft law, that there should be a shorter period of absence, that one should be able to get one's driving licence back if one was not affected any more, that is to say, if one had taken the driving licence for drunk driving, one could come and pick it up once one had sobered up. That's not how things work. Also, in relation to reducing the fine, so that actual costs can only be paid, I think it is hopeless to start graduated in this way. Where, after all, I would like to be a little bit positive about the proposal is in relation to information. Perhaps we could be better informed, because I believe that many young people may not be aware that it can actually be measured several days after smoking hashish. So there might be something in an enlightenment function. The second thing is, of course, where, for example. liquid cannabis is part of the medical treatment of sclerosis patients. I also think that there is at least a task to be done to see if we can perhaps draw up some guidelines for this. There is, after all, a wide range of medicines that are excluded; there is a long list of means. This could perhaps be considered, because it is clear that where it is part of a medical treatment, it should of course not have consequences where one is punished in that way. But overall we have the view in the Danish People's Party that you should not drive a car when you have been drinking alcohol, or when you have smoked hashish or consumed other forms of drugs. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154758	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226154814	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising a debate that I really think is important. I think we all agree that we should not smoke cannabis and immediately get behind the wheel. The two things must be kept far apart. If that happens, then we Radicals think it is fair that there is the severe punishment that an unconditional disqualification of the driving licence is. However, I have also received requests from people or parents to people who tell of cases where the driving licence has been withdrawn several days after cannabis smoking and where the person is no longer affected and is no longer a danger to other road users. As has been described in the inquiries I have received, there has been no abusers with a daily cannabis consumption, where very large amounts of THC could be built up in the fat layer, i.e. the drug you get from smoking or consuming cannabis. It's been an apartment smoker if you want to. I have tried, as most other rapporteurs may have done, to have this improved or rebutted, as in science. I have talked to a number of abuse experts, even after the expert meeting that has been mentioned here earlier in the debate, and the announcement is that there is not enough knowledge of this area, which is very sad in many ways, as we Radicals would like to make legislation on an enlightened basis. The good thing is that according to my information, a number of Danish professionals will now start some clinical studies to find out if you could track THC in my blood on Sunday if I smoked a joint today. I believe that the debate here has helped to get these studies under way, which I can certainly welcome. I think that we can legislate on a more enlightened basis. But we Radicals will therefore wait for these studies, although I can tell you that I am a little frustrated that they have not already been carried out at this stage. But if the studies show that you can be taken for drug driving in cases where you are not affected and where you are not a danger to other road users, then we radicals are very open to looking at whether there is a need for legislative change to ensure proportionality. You should only have taken the driving licence if you pose a danger to other road users. That is why we Radicals do not support this proposal on the current basis, although we believe that the debate it has helped to create has been beneficial. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155042	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155043	When the Radicals stress the need for more knowledge in this area, have the Radicals done anything to make sure that we can gain more knowledge and that some research is being undertaken? Or is there anything on the drawing board compared to that? Because I think it is not a radical policy either to punish people who are actually not a danger to road safety, even though of course they should not have smoked hashish because it is illegal and all these things. But at least I think it could be a path that we were trying to get a little smarter on this. It is of course no secret, and we also heard at the expert meeting that Denmark has a very, very low tolerance threshold compared to a number of other countries. So do you radicals have any plans to get a little more research into this?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155133	As I understand from my contacts in the professional environment, they themselves are now starting some further clinical studies. So the question is whether we need to push it too much politically. In fact, I think they can start it faster than we can from the political point of view. I am very pleased because I do not disagree with Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt that it is important to legislate on an enlightened basis. I miss the bell-cleared basis. I hope it will come, but I believe, as I said, from the conversations I have had with professionals, that it is on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155207	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155214	Well, we have to try to clarify with some questions whether there is any research going on or no research going on. At least I think it is important. I regret that we are putting young people out of order on a very, very loose basis. I would also just like to know whether it can't be because I usually know the radical legal policy as being very clever and sensible... be a viable path, this with the fact that you actually support some first-time smokers, or first-time offenders in this context, in quitting smoking by simply giving them a carrot at the other end of the process. I actually have a knowledge that such methods work on addicts, namely by simply saying that you can keep your driving licence, but in return we also require you to register for some treatment and take some tests that prove that you are actually drug-free or hash-free.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155305-2	Thank you for your kind words about radical justice policy. Yes, absolutely, we would like to discuss that, but it will probably be on the back of some deeper studies that show more about what the effect of a THC level in the blood is when you've smoked many days ago, and you're not a chain smoker, if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155330	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper who speaks for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155337	Thank you. I will be very brief. This motion for a resolution has been tabled on the basis of a large number of requests. I believe that all the legal rapporteurs and transport rapporteurs, yes, I am sure that all Members of Parliament have been given stories and stories about people, especially young men who have lost their driving licences, even though, in this situation, they have not been a danger to road safety, and we in the Enhedslisten are really, really sorry about this. We are very much in favour of having a sharp level of punishment when it comes to people driving cars in a way that puts other people's lives at risk, but we are, on the other hand, very little in favour of it if you can put it that way • having legislation that punishes people who have not put others in danger. Then it is true that there are many who say that smoking cannabis is illegal and that you could not do that. One could simply not do that, but as a legislator I believe that this is a matter that needs to be dealt with in criminal law, in drug law, and that what we have to do in traffic law is to ensure that we have a road safety law. I think it is unspeakable to start punishing people according to traffic legislation and to take away their driving licences if what you think they have done wrong has been to spend Saturday night at some cozy gathering 3 days earlier. It is quite legitimate that there are people who really, really feel that the legislation is unfair in this area, and it is no better for there to be stories about young people who then lose their apprenticeship and opportunities for the future, because the driving licence is smoking again, even though in no way they have been a danger to traffic and, moreover, they are doing their job well. That is why we also think that the best thing would be for the possibility to be removed or the minimum limit to be set, so that people cannot be deprived of their driving licences unless they are, in fact, a danger to road safety. But the proposal made here by the SF guarantees some people better. This will not be optimal, because road traffic legislation will still be used to some extent to punish people for a violation of drug law, but it is certainly better than nothing. And there must be great praise for taking this matter seriously and trying to take a constructive approach and see if you can find compromises for the benefit of the people who have ended up in a terrible, terrible squeeze. So Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155638	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226155645	The opinion as to whether cannabis, hash, should be legal or not, one can have different views on, and it is known that we have it here in the Folketing, but that is not what we are discussing today. SF has made a proposal on driving in hash affected condition. I would like to take a critical view of the title itself, because the term hash affected the state of affairs probably gives some people, including the Minister of Justice, a wrong idea of what is actually involved. What we in Denmark believe is that everything that can be measured in relation to an earlier time you have smoked hashish has an impact on your ability to drive. This is hardly correct. This is probably wrong, and it was also the impression that we were given when we were with the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs on a trip to Portugal and Colorado. So it would be strange, however, if the influence of having taken hashish is different in Denmark than in North America. After all, there are no arguments in terms of either temperature or such purely physical location, for Danes to be affected differently from Americans, or that it is different here than it is there. We therefore think that there are some very sensible elements to the proposal that the SF makes. We hope, in particular, that a study, if necessary research, will be carried out on the limit values which determine whether or not to drive a motor vehicle, because it will probably end up at least on the technical level with a different conclusion from that which the government has so far reached. Then it may be that the government still has a political interest in maintaining a position that goes against professionalism, but we must then take that at that time. In the light of the specific changes in the previous part of the proposal, we are also positive. We can do that. And I also think that we should be very careful about this a little mysterious notion that you can be punished for a crime in other cases and in other parts of the legislation. In other words, it is a bit like someone who has done something that they must not do and which is of course punishable in some context, that is, if any bread, we could take the blasphemy clause, which is so popular to discuss today, and then we imagined that if they then drove a car fourteen days later, they could get a special traffic penalty for it. Because it has just as much impact 14 days later as this one has. In other words, this is an untrue punishment for the citizens, and we do not want to be involved in this. So I think it's fine that we can disagree on whether cannabis, hashish, should be legal or not. I don't think we can reach an agreement on that today, and it's fair enough that there may be different points of view. Of course, there is clearly a period of time right after one presents a danger, and during that period there are, of course, good arguments for punishing one. However, I think that the way in which legislation is put in place in this country is far too unmanageable.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226160041	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur for the proposers will say anything. I think she will. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226160059	Thank you for the debate. Of course, I had hoped that a clear majority would have emerged to do something today, and I had that hope because several of the rapporteurs had expressed a very positive opinion on doing something here. So I had hoped that we would have been able to throw a rescue plan to some of the people who have actually been thrown out of their training or apprenticeships or whatever it may be, or have lost their jobs, on the basis that they are no longer able to drive a car. I think it is a great pity that we are not going to make it any further today, but I still think there have been a few positive moves in the debate. When the proposal is made in the way it is, it is because I have actually tried to try to find a model for something that could create a majority. I know, of course, that we have different views on how the legislation should be based in this area, that we have different views on hashish, and that is why I had hoped somewhere that we could have made a wise sanction that would give people a chance, but also support them in getting out of their abuse. This is not a proposal for which the SF can take credit. In fact, it is a proposal made by Drug Advice because they were here concerned about getting people in and getting them into treatment and supporting them in getting out of their abuse, and because they have seen unhappy examples that people have had their lives destroyed on the basis of a case where it is very, very uncertain whether they have been a danger to road safety. I have also noted that in Information today there has been a debate by a police prosecutor, Palle Lyngsø, I think his name is where he says he thinks this is a very, very serious and perhaps also too far-reaching sanction. I do not think it is every day that prosecutors are heard taking part in the debate in this way, so I also think we should pay attention to that. The left will await the judgment of the High Court. We must hope that this judgment will come quickly so that we can get on with this task. Because I'm thinking that if there's a choice first and power should change, then maybe you're losing interest in doing something about this. But that's what we have to live with. It may be, I think, that we might be able to make a report on this research. Now we need to clarify whether what the radical rapporteur says is correct, namely that there is scope for doing something in the research environment in order to find a more sensible way of setting a tolerance limit so that we do not hit the wrong ones. One could imagine that there might be a majority in favour of it. Then the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned something about campaigns, which I also think is a good idea, because the best thing would be that people were informed about this and did not smoke that party joint and lost their driving licences. I think that's a real shame for the young people. Otherwise, I just want to thank the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance for their support for the proposal. I'm really glad. I would also like to thank the Left for at least seeing some fundamental challenges in the way we have put the legislation in place now. However, we must recognise that we are not going to make any progress on today's debate. Perhaps we can move forward in relation to research, and that will then be a step in the right direction, because there is no doubt that it would be better if we had legislation that hit the right ones, that is to say those that are affected and that absolutely should not get behind the wheel and let the rest go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226160456	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226160510	I give the floor again to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226160527	Thank you. Now we have to deal with a resolution on one of the crimes that I myself think is one of the most cruel and terrible, namely rape. It is a crime that can have huge, incalculable and long-lasting consequences for its victims, and it is clear that we must do what we can to treat our rape victims in a good and better way. It must be gentle and professional, from the time the case is reported to the end, and there may also be help for the victims then. The SF suggests here to make negligent rape punishable. I understand the intention, but it also raises some difficult questions. The Criminal Code Council has dealt with this issue in depth, as I know the proposer knows, and has spoken against making it punishable. The Criminal Code Council points out on the one hand that it could be stated that it is permissive in itself to have sexual intercourse, where, for example, there is sexual intercourse. has been violent, but where the perpetrator has not understood that violence was essential for the victim not to resist, but where the perpetrator should have understood that it was not voluntary, and I agree with that. On the other hand, the Criminal Law Council pointed out, among other things, that: The fact that, even if sexual rape is punishable, it will not change the fact that the prosecution must be able to raise many of the difficult issues of proof such as today. In addition, the Criminal Code Council also pointed out that criminalisation of negligent rape could risk having the unintended consequence of the fact that conditions which are actually to be classified as intentional rape are instead subject to a milder provision on negligent rape. The proposer points out that in Norway, the only Nordic country in 2000, which has criminalised grossly negligent rape, there has been an increase in the number of rape reports. This is also reflected in the report by the Criminal Code Council. However, where rape reports have increased in Norway since grossly negligent rape was criminalised, the number of convictions compared to notifications was still at the same level in Norway as before the amendment of the law. The experience of Norway does not therefore seem to give the impression that it has become easier for prosecutors to lift the burden of proof. Another important experience from Norway, which I would like to emphasise, is that there is a tendency for cases which, according to Danish law, are likely to be punishable as intentional rape because of the nature of the violence or threat of violence, to be regarded as grossly negligent rape instead, and this could therefore have the effect of significantly reducing the perpetrator's sentence. With my knowledge of the SF, I am quite convinced that it is by no means the intention of the proposal here, but it is a trend that I think we need to be aware of. We therefore run the risk of rapists being punished more lightly because their actions are judged to be negligent rather than intentional. In other words, I think that Parliament should think carefully before criminalising negligent rape. I think our powers should be used to make life as good as possible for the victims of rape, and then it is clear that, when we look at the Danish authorities, we must always consider whether we can become even more capable. At the moment, experience is being gained with sound and video recordings of interviews, which are also an element of the motion for a resolution. There is also the focus of the authorities today on the training of those with both the police, the prosecution and the courts who come into contact with suspected rape victims. But I have no doubt that here is an area where we can get even better, and I think we should of course discuss how we can do that, but overall we cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226160948	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226160953	Well, I had a good feeling the Minister wouldn't support the paragraph of negligent rape. I am going to ask some questions about it, so I am not going to use my speaking time here today. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights held a hearing in December on exactly the same subject of rape, and there was therefore a consensus from the organisations involved that there was a place where the notifications had actually been registered for a number of years, which showed that about 6%. Of the women who came to the police to report a rape, they were not allowed to do so. I don't know what's in it, but it sounds pretty serious if the police don't take reviews. So one of the points contained in the SF's proposal is that there should be better statistics in this area. There is a challenge to distinguish between when something is recorded as an investigation and when it is recorded as a proper notification. So will the Minister help to provide better statistics in this area? In fact, I do not think we can live with the fact that in some way there are some statistics showing that 6%. does not experience being allowed to report such an event.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161106	In other words, let us wait until the committee's reading to see if there is a need for statistics that we do not have access to today. However, there is something much more serious than the statistical question asked by Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, namely if there are women who find that they cannot be allowed to report rape. I would like to see the material to support it, because it goes without saying that any crime must be reported in Denmark and, in particular, serious crimes. I am not aware of that issue, but I almost think that is the most interesting thing to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161135	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161137	Actually, I think it's gynecological section or something at the Rigshospitalet that's done this statistic, and they've actually been doing it for quite a few years, so I can send the statistics to the minister. I've already asked about this part, and the police circles don't have the experience of this. But I'm just saying that there are at least four organisations that have the experience that this is happening. That is why better statistics are needed in this area. Then I just want to ask you about the system of aid lawyers. Will the Minister ensure that there is a guard system with them? For a report has actually been prepared from the Crime Prevention Council, which shows that if you have an aid lawyer from the outset, the chance that it will end up with a conviction is significantly higher. And that's only 3%. of the case that the victim actually sits with the aid attorney right from the start. Will the Minister set up a watchkeeping system to ensure that there are also aid lawyers at the wrong times? The Minister is empowered by the Code of Procedure to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161235	I would certainly like to examine whether there are problems in this area, because it is clear that the rights of aid lawyers must be clear and visible and respected. It is typically women who are raped, and it goes without saying that when one is in the extremely vulnerable situation of having been subjected to one of the most cross-border crimes, one also has a special need for protection, which is why special consideration must be given. As I said before, all authorities must be aware that this is a special victim group, and therefore I give an undertaking to look at this area if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161321	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161331	Thank you for that, President. The SF justifies the proposal we are now considering, that in criminal proceedings we often take great account of the perpetrator and his legal certainty, but forget about the victim of the criminal act. In the Left we are very much in agreement with the SF in this fundamental consideration, and we also believe that more attention should be paid to the wrongdoers in criminal proceedings in Denmark. The proposal presented here by the SF places particular emphasis on the victims of rape. The proposers propose a number of administrative changes which, overall, will help to ensure better treatment and greater consideration for the victim of the rape. It proposes, among other things, that action be taken to improve the training of professionals and officials involved in rape victims. Among other things, it has to be done. help ensure that communication and advice are as gentle, considerate and professional as possible on the basis of the specific circumstances. It is also proposed that it be analysed why the police and prosecutors do not meet the objective of shorter processing times in rape cases. Several of these administrative changes proposed can be supported in the Left, but this is not something we really think should be legislated for. We also think, like the SF, that special consideration should be given to the victims of rape. Those who have been subjected to such a serious and offensive crime must feel safe and secure by addressing the authorities. And they must have the best opportunities to move on with their lives. However, the SF also proposes to introduce criminalisation of negligent rapes, which include: are justified by similar rules in Norway. After all, the Criminal Code Council touched on the concept of negligent rape in their report on sex crimes in 2012, and it is interesting reading if you are interested in the area and can understand the more legal terms of the crime. I would like to refer briefly to their conclusion, which is that, overall, the Council does not consider that there is a real need for such criminalisation in Denmark, and that a number of factors, including legal certainty, speak decisively against such a provision. Characteristic of a rape crime is that by violence or threats of violence, the perpetrator forces the victim to intercourse. So there must be a connection between violence or threats of violence and the actual intercourse. According to the report by the Criminal Code, this will apply regardless of whether it is a negligent rape or a deliberate rape. The difference will therefore be that in the case of negligent rape, the prosecution will have to prove that the perpetrator has disregarded reasonable standards of action in the situation, and I think most people can say this is going to be difficult, indeed, in fact impossible. And the difficult evidence in these cases will therefore lead to a greater focus on the victim's behaviour at the moment of the crime. The very questioning and handling of the case could therefore be more of an insult to the victim than a deliberate rape. That is why we cannot support that part of the SF's proposal, and it also means that we cannot support the proposal as a whole. In addition, it should be noted briefly that criminalisation of negligent rape can lead to an increased risk of false reports, leading to erroneous accusations and perhaps even ultimately erroneous convictions. The Left therefore finds the proposal and the reasons behind sympathetic, but because of the concrete proposal to criminalise negligent rape, the Left cannot, overall, support the proposal here from the SF. And I have to say that we have actually read the answer given by the Minister for Justice on this issue that there are some who believe that the police do not take up the reports but instead conduct them as investigations. It is true that this issue came up in connection with the hearing held by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I myself have taken an interest in it. And there we are actually satisfied that the Minister for Justice is replying that the National Police will call the organisations concerned for a talk so that we can jointly find out what is happening, because of course reports of rape must be recorded as reports and not just as investigations. So we welcome the commitment made by the Minister and the police in this regard. I should also like to say on behalf of the Conservative People's Party that they cannot support the proposal either. Unfortunately, they cannot be present in the Chamber today because of illness, and therefore they could not be present for the previous proposal, where I had promised them to say that they meant the same as the Left, that is to say also in the case we discussed before, and regretted that they could not be here. But it's because of sickness.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161811	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161815	I am very surprised that there is not much help on the part of the Left for rape victims. There is virtually nothing, as I just heard, in this proposal that is useful for anything. You would not even look at the fact that we are getting a relevant statistic. After all, it is a criticism that has been from a great many organisations for many years. So I just want to know if there is anything in this proposal that the Left will be included in a report on?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161847-2	After all, the SF raises some fundamental issues, but I believe that much of the content of the proposal, which we can support, is such a thing that belongs in a pool of rate rapporteurs. In relation to the setting up of courtrooms and everything else, it does not belong in a report in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs. These are sensible things, and we are happy to support them, but we do not think that we should change legislation, nor anything we should report on. It goes without saying that these are some considerations that we want to take into account and some things that can be promoted in the pool of rates or otherwise. So our starting point will not be to write a report on this in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs. However, this does not mean that we do not think that the SF raises a relevant debate, nor does it mean that we do not think that we should give greater protection to victims. We just believe that some of the things SF points out here do not belong in a report in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161944	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226161945	I can't believe there's actually very little that belongs in the pool circle. The thing about picking up in relation to the victims, etc. Maybe it belongs in the pool circle. But the statistics, the aid lawyer, the way in which the police are questioned, whether there should be the possibility of sound and video recordings, are all matters for the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and these are also matters on which the Folketing can decide. As far as I remember, the Left was out with a decision-making ceiling in relation to criminal proceedings, but there is no interest in doing anything in this area where even objectives are set. I just have a really, really hard time understanding that. I don't understand why the Left is pouring the rape victims down this board today. These are actually relationships that can help these people. I've had a whole series of meetings with organizations working in this area, and these are things they're pointing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162037	Yes, but, as I said to the SF rapporteur, it is not because we disagree with the parts of the content that are about better training and other things. In other words, the Minister for Justice has given an undertaking that better statistics will be provided and, moreover, that a meeting will be convened on this subject with the long processing times. Now, of course, some things have happened recently which can explain that this has not happened, but we are looking forward to such a meeting. And I think it might be a little wrong for us to report on it when the Minister has actually given commitments. If nothing happens in this area, of course the Left is prepared to look at making a report, but I think that the Minister, the Ministry and the police should just have the opportunity to deliver the things they have actually promised to do before we write a report on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162126	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162137	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here instructs the government in this Assembly to ensure improved conditions in a number of areas for rape victims. On behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I would like to give my full support to improving efforts for rape victims and for the commitments made in this area in the past by the Minister of Justice in this Chamber. All of us who know a human being who has been subjected to this atrocity know how intrusive it is not just in the immediate situation, but far into the future. That is precisely why we must always be able to discuss how to improve our efforts for rape victims and, as I said, the Socialists want to improve their efforts where they can improve. However, we are not sure that the proposed improvements are directly in line with the needs that exist in addition to those for which the Minister of Justice previously promised both meetings and a further statistical basis. It is, of course, crucial that we put in place where the improvement will have the greatest effect and hit the inappropriateness that exists. The form in which the motion for a resolution is presented here does not, in our view, ensure the greatest possible and necessary improvement in the conditions of rape victims. And a little wonder is also that these measures were not mentioned here during the pool negotiations earlier this year, where several of the proposals clearly belong. That is why we recommend that the Minister for Justice examine the possibilities for improvement that have been promised here from Parliament's platform and that, in this context, we have a discussion. With those words, I would like to say that we Socialists strongly support better conditions for rape victims, but not the motion for a resolution. However, we look forward to further discussion on the basis of the handshakes given by the Minister today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162345	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162348	I hope that the Socialist rapporteur will agree with me that rape victims are not vulnerable people, which is why this is not at all part of the pool negotiations. This is legal policy. The Assistance Attorney's Scheme is a legal policy. The Minister has a legal basis in the Code of Procedure for the establishment of a system of assistance lawyers. So I just want to know if the Socialist rapporteur agrees with me that only 3% will be achieved. If a defense attorney is appointed, so that he sits at the victim's side at the moment when the victim is interrogated, that is simply too little, then it is not good enough, especially when we know that this actually means that the chance of having the perpetrator convicted increases when you have an aid lawyer at your side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162444	Now it is not necessarily the theme to which I referred when I said that it could be raised here in the pool of rates negotiations, but we have to recognise that there is a great deal of scope in the pool of rates negotiations to address themes such as this area. And there I just find quite quietly that SF didn't do that earlier. As I have also made clear, we would be happy to discuss the issues on which the Minister of Justice has also given a hand in further discussion, but we will not escape the fact that such a serious issue can also be addressed here in the pool negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162524	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162524-2	Yes, you can take it up in the pool negotiations, but it's still not the right place to take it up. It's about vulnerable people. Should we take money from cash aid recipients and spend on rape victims who come from all walks of life? No, I don't think we should. This isn't gonna come up in a bet pool negotiation. Assistance lawyers are provided for in the Code of Procedure, and the Code of Procedure is well known to me under the auspices of the Committee on Legal Affairs. So I would like to see a position in principle as to whether it is too little when only 3%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an aid lawyer who, incidentally, has the right to be appointed at the moment when you are interrogated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162604	Well, let me repeat that we would very much like to see improvements for rape victims, and let me return to the fact that there is an opportunity in the pool negotiations to address such a theme here. This does not mean that we are not looking at it in this context, but there are several other themes in the wage-pool negotiations, which are not necessarily aimed at vulnerable citizens, but which are aimed at those who are in difficulty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162628	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Liselott Blixt as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226162638	I congratulate the rapporteur on having tabled the motion for a resolution. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that this is an extremely important area which is being neglected. It is a little strange to hear rapporteurs who may not want to see the right thing about the victims being helped. Unfortunately, we see too often that, as far as those who have been raped are concerned, this is something that is being dealt with right after it has happened, but if you get the perpetrator convicted is another matter. Because not many people report it. I would also like us to have a look at the types of abuse that are happening and I would rather call it sexual abuse because I think, unfortunately, that one of the mistakes when we talk rape is that we say: What is violence? When someone comes along and claims that he has been raped, it is said: 'Well, you don't have any bruises.' Violence is a lot of things. Violence is also psychological, you can be held to with threats, and that is perhaps one of the reasons why there is doubt as to whether you have been raped, and therefore, many women do not go further in reporting the abuse. I would say that it can also be about men. There are rapes from both sides, and sometimes the known and sometimes unknown perpetrators. Whoever it is, there are violent experiences for the person affected, and the need for help does not depend on the type of abuse or who has committed it. There are many types of abuse. We also see more and more these drugrapes with young people who go out and suddenly don't remember what happened. They also find it difficult to prove what they have been exposed to, or to say whether they have been involved in it themselves, and then they dare not report it. That is why we think it is a very good proposal, but we would also like to see higher penalties and minimum penalties for rape. We must do more to ensure that rapes are reported and investigated so that justice can be done. For rape is a violent act which has major consequences for the victims. So in many cases it is for the rest of their lives. In connection with a parliamentary hearing on 9 December, it was also stated that many rapes are not reported, and I find that very sad to hear. Therefore, Peter Skaarup has also called the Minister of Justice in consultation for among others. to hear whether the Minister does not find the high number of unannounced rape cases worrying and what the Minister intends to do about the problem in order to help the victims. We therefore agree with the proposal that there should be a greater focus on the victims, because this can be much better. There are seven points in the proposal, and I would like to take them with which we agree first. There is continuing training of the professional staff, which we consider to be extremely important. There is analysis of the case and better communication with rape victims, which we also support. There is criminalisation of negligent rape. Here, however, we believe that we need to assess how this can be done in practice. There has to be better statistics. Then there are two points on which we want more clarification. These are the improvements in the questioning of victims of rape, as well as improved counselling and interviewing services for rape victims. It is important that aid lawyers are appointed immediately, as I can also hear from the rapporteurs. But it also states that there must be a guarantee that rape victims can be interrogated by a person of the same sex. There we think: How important is it? Is it not more important to ensure that the hearing is carried out by an expert and at the request of the person questioned? So we are in favour, but at the same time, as I said earlier, we have also called on the Minister to consult. So we are awaiting further consideration in committee and, if nothing else, that something can be done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226163105	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226163115	Thank you for the floor, President. I will be very brief because, of course, we Radicals can support the intention of this proposal, namely that rape victims should have better conditions. That is why we are also open to discussing virtually all the points in the proposal in a further process. In particular, the point about aid lawyers is something that we ourselves have been thinking about and that we will be open to discussing with the proposers. It is clear that there may be something economic and so on that we need to have a closer look at, but we are, in this way, open to it and share the intention to provide better conditions for rape victims. There is, however, an exception, and that is the point of negligent rape. I think we should be very careful to introduce this into Danish criminal law. The experience of Norway has been poor, as the Minister of Justice has pointed out, and something even suggests that it may have led to a decriminalisation of rape. In addition, in many ways the subject of proof will be the same as when it comes to proving common intent, one might say. That is why we Radicals cannot support the proposal, but we are, of course, open to discussing a number of the elements, because we share the intention that rape victims should have better conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226163234	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226163248	I would like to begin by commending the SF for raising the issue. We have heard too many stories about women who are still faced with a reproachful attitude when they want to report a rape. We have heard too many warnings from crisis centres about such an old Nordic way of thinking when it comes to the treatment of victims of rape. The perception of rape in our society today is still too much surrounded by guilt and shame. To far too much women are still indirectly blamed for having been raped when they, for example, are being raped. they are asked what clothes they had on that day and when asked whether they should go home and think about it before trying to report it. That is unacceptable. There is a need for a change of attitude in society in general, including in the police handling matters. Also much praise to the SF for taking a legal policy debate that really focuses on the victims and not on the perpetrator's punishment, while pretending that it is for the victims that we are talking about the level of punishment for the perpetrator. For once, the discussion is really about the victim, and it is much needed. There is certainly a need for discussion, and several of the proposals contained in the SF's motion for a resolution should have been put in place a long time ago, for example on a watch-keeping system for aid lawyers. We have a great deal of sympathy for the proposals for better interrogation, further training and advice. We agree with the need for improved statistics, as well as the need for a critical review of procedures. We also have in the Enhedslisten a dream of being able to get a specially trained group of police officers to deal with rape cases and sexual crimes, where the victims are particularly vulnerable. And yes, as I have said, we also have great hopes of being able to get a security system for aid lawyers so that we can get help at any time of the day. If, however, we cannot vote in favour of the motion despite the enthusiasm of the House, it is because of the point of negligent rape. We have discussed it in our party, in the Enhedslisten, and there are many different views on it. That is why, when we reject the proposal for negligent rape, it is not a signal that we think it is a completely crazy idea to come up with. But it is a difficult discussion, and I think everyone agrees on that. There are things that speak in favour, and there are things that speak against. The two decisive arguments for us in the Enhedslisten have been, firstly, the risk that people who are currently convicted of intentional rape will be convicted under the negligence clause and, secondly, that there may be more focus on the victim's behaviour prior to the infringement, because negligence means legally assessing what the perpetrator should have realised because of the circumstances. And the indirect application of guilt to the victim we are very little interested in. At the same time, there has also been a change in practice following a Supreme Court ruling, which means that some of these very grotesque cases we have seen in the course of time, where the circumstances clearly indicate psychological coercion and indirect threats, and where, despite this, the perpetrators are no longer present. We would be delighted to vote in favour of it, because we actually think there is a collection of very good proposals here, but we cannot support it in its entirety. However, we would very much like to enter into a dialogue on a report, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226163722	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226163737	In many respects, this is a very fine proposal that the SF has put forward here. If, for once, I have to deliberately cut a sentence into two and take a little out of context, I would quote Mrs Pernille Skipper that it is nice for the SF to come up with a proposal based on the victims. Then I will stop quoting Pernille Skipper, because I think it is generally nice that some people come up with something that takes account of the victims, especially from the left. I think that's a really good thing. We are, in fact, open to six of the seven proposals. We think that much of what is here sounds very good, because we would also like to help those people who are subjected to rape and sexual abuse at all. However, as the debate has shown up to now, paragraph 6, which is, as it were, sticking in the eye. In fact, I was incredibly pleased with the radical rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Mikkelsens, speak, because I kind of agree with what he said. There is such a funny little curl on it that I have not really heard of paragraph 6 since I was a member of the Radical Left. At that time, there were people who had those thoughts too. Hopefully there isn't any more. Anyway, it's nice that it's sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen, drawing the line. We think that this careless rape thing is something you should be very careful about. There is a very, very great risk that innocent people will be convicted, and that must of course also be borne in mind when discussing legal policy. Then, of course, there are also the problems which the Minister of Justice went through with the risk that fewer people might actually be convicted, and that would be awful. I think we should go ahead with this in some sensible way, so that we can concentrate on the things that may be more supportive. And then I think SF should let others live with the problems caused by negligent rape. Well, I would say that personally I would fear very much that there were innocent people who risked being convicted if they introduced negligent rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226163957	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226164004	When I've been preoccupied with this subject, it's because it turns out that we may have a dark number of 2,000 rapes a year. Of them, 500 or fewer are reported and 60-80 of them lead to a judgment. It is incredibly few who are so lucky that it ends in a judgment, and I don't think we ever get over that because it will often be a claim against a claim. That is why I have been concerned: what can we do when these victims, who are still victims, stand there without being able to end a sentence to a perpetrator? Is there anything else we can do for them to be met as victims? I was at one point very inspired by a court philosopher. Jesper Ryberg, his name was. He said that what he had discovered in his research was that victims were much more likely to accept a lower penalty or no penalty at all, if the process towards it had been seen as fair and as proper, that is, if one had been well received by the police; if one had been recognized; if there were good feedback; and if there was a good explanation why the matter, like not really came into being, for example. that the case was closed because of the position of the evidence and not because it was not believed, but because they and the circumstances of the case were present. It actually inspired me to have a talk with the organizations in the area to hear: How can we respond to rape victims in a better way, so that we can create a good process around them when a lot of them will see that it doesn't end in a judgment? This is a subject which concerns me very much and which was also the reason why, in 2010 or 2011, I believe, the SF launched an investigation into the rape centres, which in fact also led to a better reception of the victims there, because it turned out that there was a very different practice in the centres for what they offered. I also note that the positions are a little mixed candy. Some people think that a great deal of the proposals are really, really good. I would like to thank the Minister for taking a closer look at the statistics. I think that is actually crucial. I think it is really unfortunate that there are so many organisations sitting at a hearing and saying that they have the experience that there are people who are not allowed to report. If you are not allowed to report, it may be difficult to get the help you need, and of course you should have the right to it. It would also be very nice if the Minister really looked at the system of aid lawyers. In fact, it is essential for more cases to end in a judgment. It's not okay that only 3%. experience having an aid lawyer at their side as soon as they are interrogated when it is so crucial for the further progress of the case. We have to do better than that. And the Minister has a legal basis in the Code of Procedure, according to which she can actually set up a watchkeeping system, and I very much hope that the Minister will look at that. I am a little surprised that the Left is not more concerned with the rape victims. That's what I imagined. I remember that the Left made a proposal that it has probably been in the summer of 2010 that there should be a higher penalty for rape. But that's not the problem in these cases. The punishment is high enough. The problem is that so few cases end up with a verdict to the perpetrator, and that is why I really had hoped that the Left would be more concerned about the victims' position in this when it does not end with a verdict. Something has been mentioned about the rate pool. There is one proposal that may be suitable for the rate pool. This is how we make conversation groups and so on. But in principle I do not think it belongs there. Rape victims are not vulnerable people, as rape victims come from all layers of society. It is not cash benefit recipients, early retirement pensioners or others to whom money is put in the rate pool, and therefore I do not really think it is a matter that belongs there. This is a matter that belongs in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I will try, among the various parties, to see whether there is a majority for one or the other in relation to the victims, but I can see that it looks really, really difficult at this stage. And the best thing I can cling to is that the Minister would also like to take part in looking at some of these things. We have a commitment that there is at least an openness to that, so I think that is really, really good. In relation to negligent rape, we must also try to exorcise whether the Norwegian paragraph may well be that in some cases it may have given reduced sentences in general, so that there are actually more victims who have experienced a conviction afterwards and could end up in relation to the perpetrator. Then it can actually have a value to go a little further along that path and look at it. I am aware that it is a debate that does not mature immediately, but in the SF we are ready to take it today, and we are happy to take it in the future as well. In fact, we believe that it is essential that more sentences be made in this area and that better help be given to the rape victims, who are not only about punishment but also about the initiatives that are actually around the person when they have been subjected to this abuse. I am sorry that there is no majority today, but we are continuing the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226164551	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226164608	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 10 March 2015. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr President. Søren Pind, to justify the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226164651	Traitor, what does that even mean? Is that just a word? The Left's answer is that it is far more than a word. It's the worst stamp you can put on another human being. It is a stamp that must tell everyone else that they are not worthy to be part of the community, to participate in community affairs, to be part of us. We are experiencing the second coming of symbolism in these years. In the world of terror, very little is random. The way to hit us is by hitting what says more than the mere act. Whether it is a young Jewish man murdered in front of a synagogue, a film director murdered out in front of a free speech event or, as September 11, two towers, where all peoples were trading across all boundaries. An important response to this conscious use of symbolism is a consciously equivalent strategy. When the Prime Minister, in the recent party leader debate after Paris, thought that there was nothing to understand, it is a sinister overall term for the government's approach to combating the immediate greatest threat of the modern world. There are no spiritual or cultural considerations. There is no real thought, but only an automatic reaction. You can't win a war like that, because we're alone the realization the government won't make itself. Of course, the means are also difficult to find. So treason is not just a word. It is a stamp placed on people who betray everything that is close to them and who lose the right to be a part of the community because their action and their choices are so malicious and contrary to goodness and natural loyalty that it can be no different. It is a stamp that serves to say to everyone else: Stay away; don't do like him or her. This government has chosen not to raise a single case of treason against people who have gone to Syria to support ISIL in Syria and Iraq. Although this government has taken on the enormous responsibilities, it has, among other things, taken on board. Left to send Danish forces to fight against the very same people. It is incomprehensible that the prosecution has not been asked long ago to bring a case. Not quickly enough could one send out forces when it became part of the West's strategy, but not a thought had been given what it would mean for domestic justice. Instead, when the debate was opened, the case was brought before the Criminal Code Council, when the case is probably an internal government dispute, where even the complete looseness in relation to the original basic positions that prevail is not enough...
ParlaMint-DK_20150226165016	There's three minutes to justify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226165017	Well, I'd better stop, but I'll be happy to continue another time, because there is more to say on that matter, but I have to read out a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that while Denmark is one of the countries in the world that has relatively delivered the most warriors to the terrorist organization ISIL in Syria and Iraq, the government has not taken legal steps to prosecute treason against those concerned. Not a case has been raised, although the government has allowed many so-called Syrian warriors to return to Denmark. The Danish Parliament therefore expresses very strong criticism. It is a dangerous and self-chosen inaction on the part of the government that calls for the fight against Danish and Allied soldiers not to be condemned as treason. At the same time, it frees people who are potentially dangerous from this abominable crime. This is unacceptable in a situation where Denmark is at war with ISIL. The proposal has been tabled on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226165111	Thank you. It will, of course, be part of the further negotiations, although this is the first time I have heard a proposal for adoption before the Minister had had the opportunity to answer the question. But we'll take that as a new formation. Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then it's the Minister of Justice first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226165133	But this is certainly due to the fact that the question is not raised to hear about the government's position, let alone the Minister's speech, to find the necessary common ground or to pursue a common foreign policy. So I guess that detail was more revealing than what you might see first.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226165155	May I suggest that you hear the Minister's statement which has been called for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226165201	I shall avoid going into it any more, I must say polemical debate, which the Left is proposing with the justification for the proposal here. I simply think that the subject is too serious for the somewhat youthful approach to the issue, which, unfortunately, I think the rapporteur of the Left is exhibiting. Because this is a serious issue. The government I think we are doing that on behalf of the entire Danish community............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The crazy idea of creating an Islamic caliphate, which is what ISIL is fighting for, has no place in a free and democratic world, and I find it quite incomprehensible that any citizen can support the ideology and atrocities of the movement. I welcome, even despite the rapporteur's speech today, the fact that the Danish Parliament has given its consent to the Danish military contribution in support of the action against ISIL, and I welcome the fact that we have thus described ISIL as a terrorist organisation. ISIL is listed on the terrorist lists of the European Union and the United Nations, and the United Nations Security Council has Resolution No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. condemned ISIL's terrorist acts and continued gross, systematic and widespread violations of international humanitarian law. When it comes to the so-called Syrian warriors, i.e. those who voluntarily turn their backs on Denmark and who renounce democracy and freedom and instead leave for, for example, Syria and Iraq to take part in the fighting, there is every reason to distance themselves from them, and they are currently one of the greatest security risks to Danish society. Their actions are, from start to finish, abominable to us, and we run the risk of achieving, in addition to their thoughtful purpose, concrete and military skills which, unfortunately, can also be translated into a Danish everyday life and reality. Overall, this means that those concerned may have both the will and the ability to commit terrorist attacks in Denmark, and we know from PET that this group constitutes it at present. most important factor in the threat picture against Denmark. This is a threat which we are all obliged to take seriously. That is not least why we in the government have put forward a number of proposals to deal with the problems of Syrians. This applies to the bill we have just adopted on the inclusion of passports. This also applies, of course, to the presentation of the comprehensive terrorist plan, in which we want to strengthen both our open police and our intelligence services. We want to strengthen general preparedness and we want to increase the capacity of our authorities. We want to do what we can to ensure effective protection against terrorism in Denmark. We want to do what we can to ensure the safety and security of the Danes. Please, sir. Søren Pind, take the discussion about treason. Because in my optics there can be no doubt that if you leave Denmark, join ISIL, assist Denmark's enemy or directly attack our soldiers, you are a traitor. It must be said so that it can be heard and understood. I do not think there is any doubt about this. And I also think it is necessary that we from the Folketing send the signal: no Danes should be able to participate with impunity in armed struggle against our Danish soldiers, and we must find the solutions necessary to prosecute those concerned. As you know, the Penal Code contains a number of provisions which, depending on the circumstances, can be used to punish persons taking part in armed struggle against Danish soldiers. And you can violate several of those rules by doing the same thing. This applies to section 114 of the Criminal Code on terrorism. This applies to section 114 e.a. of the Criminal Code. to promote the activity of groups or associations which commit or intend to commit terrorist acts. As the questioner knows, the penal code does not use the term treason. On the other hand, Article 102 of the Penal Code provides for assistance to the enemy during the war, such as: includes serving in the armed forces of an enemy military force. That provision was last amended in 1952, inter alia. in the light of the experience gained during the Second World War and the occupation. It has to be said that this provision bears the hallmark of having come into existence in a different time, and doubts have been raised as to what can almost be understood by war, as the world has unfortunately developed since 1952. Therefore, on several occasions, and I would like to repeat it today, on behalf of the government, I have, of course, expressed the absolutely clear political position that participation in armed struggle against Danish forces is treason. However, the clear statement should not prevent us from being sure that the legal basis must also, of course, be in order at the same time. That is why we have asked the Criminal Code Council to work on this issue here. It will be some time before the Criminal Law Council has completed its examination of the overall mandate on armed conflicts abroad. I think we need clarification on what concerns treason, and that is why I asked the Criminal Code Council on an earlier occasion to give a partial opinion before the summer on the very issue of participation and recruitment to armed conflicts abroad, to which the Danish State is a party. The sub-opinion should therefore address the specific issue of the participation of Danes in armed conflicts against Danish or Allied soldiers. As I have already said, and I repeat it very much: if there are Danes who turn their backs on our society, join ISIL, fight against Danish forces, they are traitors. In conclusion, I would just like to say that we are in an extremely difficult time. The terrorist has hit our open, free society. The investigation is still going away. I would like to appeal to the authorities to complete their investigation. I would also like to appeal to the decisions we take both on top of the terrorist attack in our own midst from 14 to 15 February and on top of the other terrorist attacks we have seen in comparable European countries that we think well and thoroughly before making more fundamental changes to our legislation and therefore to our society. It should not prevent us from expressing ourselves in the Folketing, but we should do so on an enlightened basis. And I would also like to call, to the extent that and with the forthcoming election campaign in mind, that the Left is able to do so in a memorable and united manner. I think that makes the decisions stronger, and I think that is what our people expect of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226170044	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it's the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226170054	When we come together today for a debate on questions, it is important to remember that with the terrorist organisation ISIL we are faced with an opponent who has a completely insane ideology and a barbaric view of human beings. Denmark and the defence are actively contributing to the fight against ISIL in Iraq, among others. with the deployment of F 16 fighter aircraft and through the training of Iraqi security forces. Our people are doing a great job, and we can be proud of them. The defence contributes to the fight against terrorism against Denmark, and the government has just presented 12 new initiatives to strengthen the fight against terrorism. Several of the actions strengthen the defence intelligence efforts against extremists who will be hurting Denmark. In order to strengthen the efforts of the Defence Intelligence Service in general to obtain and analyse information on terrorist threats from abroad, the government wants 415 million to be allocated. kr. over the next four years. I would like to follow up the Minister for Justice's speech by stating, overall, that we must, of course, take care of our soldiers when they are deployed, whether the enemies they are fighting come from Denmark or from abroad. As Minister for Defence, I am very concerned that we protect our Danish soldiers, who go out into the world and solve dangerous tasks under difficult conditions. I therefore fully agree with the remarks made by the Minister for Justice, both on the issue of treason, but also on the fact that Danes should not be able to participate with impunity in an armed fight against Danish soldiers. In addition, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned, the Government has asked the Criminal Code Council to assess whether the rules in force provide adequate safeguards in order to counteract participation in and recruitment to armed conflicts abroad, as well as to propose possible criminal sanctions to strengthen efforts in this area. In this context, the Criminal Code Council will be able to include the Military Criminal Code in its deliberations, if the Council considers it appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226170343	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Pind, who is also the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226170359	Thank you, President. First of all, I regret that I had to change the introduction and my own rapporteur's speech. I'm sorry about that. It wasn't the intention to create a new generation, sir. President, I would like to stress this point. It was simply and now it has been heard from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament; I have been heard admitting this error. I will make every effort to ensure that this does not happen again for many years. However, this gives me just the opportunity to add a few things to my speech, because there is no reason to say it all again, and with the approval of the President, I would also like to assume that the proposal for adoption will nevertheless be included in the further negotiations. Thank you. On January 15, the Minister of Justice was presented with a question by the Ekstrabladet; at least it was published in the Ekstrabladet on January 15. The question was: Does the Minister of Justice not have any influence on the prosecution? The country's Minister for Justice replied: yes, but there is a great deal to be done before you, as a politician, have to engage in specific criminal matters. We need to be careful not to lose our heads. It was on a question as to why the Minister of Justice had not asked the prosecution to raise a case for treason. That's the whole point. For the government, this isn't enough. The Minister of Justice can stand on this platform and say: there is no doubt that this is treason. Nevertheless, when it comes to a question of raising a case, a great deal needs to be done. Even in a situation where the Minister of Justice himself stands on Parliament's platform and says: there is no doubt that it is treason, then you will not file a case. That's kind of the difference. That is the difference, even in the seriousness of the situation, because that makes the seriousness of the situation nothing. That is the seriousness with which we look at it, that when the doubt is as clear as the Minister of Justice himself indicates, it is also important that you resort to the tools you have and act on it. But the government thinks there's a lot to do. So it's not enough as it is. I have to say that the Left is vertical, deeply and deeply disagree. As I tried to say before, it is a use of symbolism aimed at us who say and do so much more than the individual action. We have to bring that too. And when, according to Professor Jørn Vestergaard, this inaction even means that in the intervening period, when you have to think about what you have no doubt about, yes, that is what the government is doing, it is thinking about something that it is not in doubt about. In fact, it risks letting people go free, because the government itself has expressed some kind of doubt as to whether the treason clauses can be used. Then there is a very worrying passivity towards people who go and do as they please. It is a pity that you do not want to understand, it is a pity that you do not want to act. It sends some unfortunate signals to the people who are leaving and it has had a consequence. In the magazine The Economist, you can see an overview showing that Denmark is, relatively speaking, one of the countries that delivers the most so-called Syrians because you have watched; because you have taken the time to think about what you have no doubt about; because you will not try to understand spiritually or culturally what the matter is about. That is why we wanted this question, and that is why we have made the proposal for adoption which I have read out before. I therefore look forward to Parliament's debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226170821	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226170833	If you shoot at Danish soldiers, you're a traitor. Participation in the struggles of extremist organisations is seen with social democratic spectacles completely unacceptable. We are strongly opposed to this type of action, and it is also our clear view that this is a position shared by all the parties of the Folketing. Thus the political conflict as to whether it is unacceptable to take part in war against Danish soldiers is not present. Precisely because we are looking at foreign fighters with such earnestness, we welcome the fact that this summer the government launched significant austerity in the area of austerity, which allows the passport to be taken away from those who might be on their way to joining these cowardly and extremist groupings. In this context, may I not say that we Socialists are at the same time annoyed that the Left did not want to go all the way, but put an expiry date on the law which is precisely to ensure that young people do not go to war in the future too. If there are foreigners living in Denmark on their way to war abroad, going to war to fight perhaps against Danish soldiers, yes, then they should not expect to return here. In the same rebirth, the Criminal Code Council was asked to make an assessment of further measures that could solve this terrible problem. The Folketing is aware that in particular the part dealing with the national frauds is treated as the first. The Minister for Justice has made this clear in the past; the Minister for Justice has made this absolutely clear today. As I started by saying, these people are traitors in our eyes. Whether or not they are traitors in the legal sense is investigated, and if there are shortcomings or gaps in the legislation, they are sought. Already today we can be judged for participation in the struggles of extremist organisations, and it is worth noting, even if the investigation is ongoing. These are penalties at the very hard end, for example following the legislation on terrorism, but, as I have said, we certainly do not stand in the way of ensuring that the national frauds can also be used and ensuring that the legal basis for this is there. We Social Democrats have also noted that the Minister for Justice has launched a study into whether a definite ban on entry to countries such as Syria can be implemented, including whether it has a concrete effect. We are open to action that can solve this terrible problem, which can solve these people who are intolerablely involved in the struggle of extremist movements. In this context, let me once again make it clear that we Socialists will not stand in the way of effective methods and tools to stop these young Danes. But we are also concerned about the effect. And may I not call for this to continue to be the focus of the forward-looking discussions we have on this so serious problem. This issue is simply too important to make it a battle between democratic political parties here in the Folketing. We stand together in this fight, we should stand together in this fight. It's a fight against anti-Democrats and extremists. I know no one disagrees with the fact that the actions of these people are and remain totally unacceptable. In those words, I have read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Socialists, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption The Parliament strongly condemns ISIL. The Folketing finds it quite incomprehensible that any human being can support the ideology and atrocities of the movement and considers it essential that Danes who commit serious crimes during armed conflicts are prosecuted and punished for this. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government attaches high priority to the efforts of those involved in the armed conflict in Syria and Iraq for ISIL. The Danish Parliament notes in this respect that the Police Intelligence Service is constantly aware of whether persons joining ISIL can be prosecuted. The Danish Parliament notes that the Criminal Law Council generally seeks clarification as to whether the applicable penal provisions are sufficient to counteract participation in terrorism and other crimes abroad, including, for example, support for ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171328	The proposal for adoption which Mrs Trine Bramsen has read out is part of the further negotiations, as is Mr Bramsen's report. Søren Pind's suggestion. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171341	Thank you. I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur how she feels about the fact that Law Professor Jørn Vestergaard calls the government's wobble and doubtfulness in this matter, in relation to whether the paragraph can be applied, as something that can lead to impunity for the traitors concerned. He is quoted in Politiken on October 4th last year: "But, the professor adds: "If I were a defense attorney for someone who is being charged under paragraph 102 (the traitor clause, ed. ) having been in the Middle East and fighting the wrong people, I would say in court that it may well be that the court believes that it is treason according to paragraph 102, but there has been a great deal of doubt about it, so it is no wonder that my client has thought that it was not treason. ▪ What does the rapporteur think about the government's action in this regard, which, according to the professor, has created doubts as to whether the paragraph can be applied at all in itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171430	As the responsible rapporteur, I am committed to ensuring that the legal basis is there to call people traitors. We are a community governed by the rule of law, and we must continue to do so, which is why it is of course essential that we have a legal basis that is in order before we start judging people. I would like to help call people traitors, but I also want to help ensure that we have the necessary legal basis so that we can be held accountable for its totally unacceptable actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171504	Sir. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171504-2	This is understood, and that is precisely why we have called on the government to order the prosecution to bring a case so that the precise clarification can be made. The only place where such clarification can be made is not in the Criminal Code Council, it is in the courts. So why do we refer to a place where clarification will not be provided?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171524	As a citizen of a community governed by law and as rapporteur for a party celebrating the rule of law, I think that the right way to do this is to get the Criminal Code Council to investigate the legal basis and that, as a politician, therefore, we do not begin to impose on our prosecutors the obligation to conduct cases. So this is about being a citizen and a politician in a rule of law where there are methods that should be followed and where politicians should not be involved in the work of the prosecution authorities and in the work of the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171559	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Marie Krarup as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226171612	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Left for raising this question, which is very important. Denmark is at war with the Islamic State, which is why we have sent F-16 aircraft to the area, which is why we help fight Islamic State by military means, and that is why it is treason if, as a Dane or a Danish citizen, you fight with Islamic State or otherwise assist Islamic State. The Islamic State is our enemy, and an enemy must not be helped in any way without serious legal consequences. Therefore, it is quite logical for the Danish People's Party that Chapter 12, § 102 of the Penal Code can be used to punish returned warriors who have fought on the side of the Islamic State. And if, due to legal subtleties, it is not possible to do so immediately, then at the speed of lightning, one must get the legal profession under control and put forward legislative proposals that make it quite clear that it is a serious crime to break one's fundamental loyalty to one's homeland by fighting with its enemies. Until the lawyers are in order, a great deal of energy must be invested as a government in emphasising that fighting on the enemy side in a war in which Denmark is involved is a serious crime. That is how it should be, but that is not what we have seen. What we have seen is a government that cannot find out whether we are at war or not, and a government that does not want to take responsibility itself, but shoots the whole problem to the corner by letting the Criminal Court sit and nerd the case for many, many months as if it is the Criminal Court that decides whether Denmark is at war or not. As I read section 19 paragraph 19 of the Constitution. 2, it is not the Criminal Law Council, but the Danish Parliament that decides whether we are at war. Thus it is also a decision for government and parliament, who are our enemies and who are not. And so it is also this political decision that is behind who are traitors and who is not. It is the responsibility of the government, as the Danish People's Party, to see it run away by making it a very, very difficult and nerdly legal question, whether it is a criminal offence or not. But it's not. No matter what words we will use, whether we are in war or armed conflict or international armed conflict, and whether our enemy is a state or an organization, it is quite easy to decide who our enemies are: they are the ones our F-16 planes are allowed to bomb. And if Danish citizens help them, they must be severely punished. If it wasn't so easy to identify who our F-16s are gonna bomb, I'm gonna be seriously worried about their assignments. Then it's madness to send planes with deadly weapons. So it is not an option that we do not know who we are at war with, it says all logic. So that's why it's not a nerdy legal issue. And if the wording of Chapter 12 of the Penal Code does not correspond to the present, the Danish People's Party will table a motion for a resolution to introduce terms such as armed conflict alongside the word war and expression as international organisation in armed conflict, etc. instead of the word enemy. It just can't be that hard. If it turns out to be so extremely difficult for the government, then I suspect that it is simply the underlying thinking of the words enemy, traitor and war that one cannot accept; that one might think that it is old-fashioned and wrong to demand loyalty from one's citizens; that one disagrees with the premise that just packing lunches for the warriors of the Islamic State is a crime because they are fighting against our Danish soldiers; that any sympathy to the Islamic State is wrong. For that means that we demand that people with Danish citizenship support Denmark, that their sympathy lies with Denmark. This is, in my opinion, the crucial premise behind our state construction, the nation state, and our democracy, that is, that the people who have citizenship in Denmark also support Denmark, or at least do not help our enemies in action. That premise must be established over and over and over again. It must therefore be difficult to obtain Danish citizenship, because we must be sure that people can be trusted before they get it, and therefore the people who have Danish citizenship and help our enemies must be severely judged. There is a modern idea that national belonging is past and irrelevant, that only respect for human rights and international conventions are important, and that the nation state is thus a somewhat difficult intermediary between the individual and the conventions. This is a view we in the Danish People's Party are very opposed to. We believe that the nation state is absolutely essential to our freedom and we will fight for its preservation. It is therefore very important that it is made quite clear that the lack of loyalty expressed in acts of wartime is punishable very much by criminal penalties. Therefore, in the Danish People's Party, we would like to express our strongest criticism of the government for not having taken care to get this area under control so that we can have traitors convicted as traitors, and that is why we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226172130	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226172137	Thank you. It is now actually Mrs Zenia Stampe who is our rapporteur in this area, but since she cannot be here today, I have been raised to read the following aloud on her behalf: we are today discussing the legal basis for Danish citizens who go to Iraq or Syria to fight with ISIL against the international coalition of which Denmark is a part. In concrete terms, questions are asked as to whether there is a need to change the country-slayer paragraphs so that the so-called Syrians can be convicted of treason. In the Radical Left, we are also very concerned about the legal basis for the Danish Syrienskriger. We strongly condemn ISIL and the Danes who are fighting on the side of ISIL, and we also hope that greater clarity will be given to the legal basis applicable to Danish Syrians, so that it will be easier to prosecute and punish them. That is why we are pleased that the Criminal Code Council is seeking clarification as to whether the criminal provisions in force are sufficient to counteract participation in terrorism and other crimes abroad, including, for example, support for ISIL. If the conclusion is that the existing penal provisions are not sufficient, we are very open to looking at changes. But whether it is the national frauds or other provisions of the penal code that are going into play, we are not in a position to decide. What matters is not what we call the crime, but that it becomes quite clear that fighting for ISIL is illegal and punishable. However, we are also aware that such a provision can be full of grey areas and dilemmas, not least in relation to the demarcation, for what type of armed conflict would it have to be applied in relation to? What specific activities should be punishable? And should it be a criterion that Denmark should be a participating counterpart in the conflict? It is therefore important that any further development of the existing provisions be undertaken on a thorough basis. We therefore await the conclusions of the Criminal Code Council and look forward to continuing the discussion on this basis. That was the speech by Mrs Zenia Stampe, and I should also like to say that we can support the proposal for adoption presented by the Socialist rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226172336	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Sanne Rubinke as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226172347	In the SF we also regard it as a very serious problem that people born and raised in Denmark may go to Syria and Iraq to participate in acts of war alongside extreme Islamists. This is contrary to our view of what is right and wrong. It is deeply worrying that so many are radicalised in Denmark and are willing to fight for a brutal movement like ISIL. These are beliefs which are completely incompatible with the Danish social model and with the values we stand for, such as democracy, freedoms and equality. Of course, we should not accept that Danish citizens or residents with a residence permit for that matter go down to fight the international coalition of which Denmark itself is a part. It is also very difficult to understand why that choice is actually made at all. We should therefore, of course, take a clear political stand against citizens participating in attacks on Danish soldiers or some of our allies and, incidentally, also civilian victims of ISIL. Denmark has had more Syrian warriors in proportion than other European countries. A previous inventory has shown that only Belgium has supplied more Syrians than Denmark compared to its population size. Of course, this is serious. That is why, in the SF, we also support the government's efforts and tightening up legislation against Syrians, foreign fighters, in general. The government's bill contains among other things. the possibility of withholding persons by depriving them of their passports, by issuing an exit ban or withdrawing a residence permit, and where an infringement could be punishable by imprisonment for up to two years. It is important that we prevent more people from leaving, and in this way we also strengthen our own security, because returned warriors pose a serious threat to security in Denmark. We need a broad palette of tools. The tough measures in the bill must be applied, and they must be followed by preventive action as part of the government's action plan for de-radicalisation. It contains a number of preventive initiatives with which we are very pleased, including: a hotline as an entrance to helping parents and relatives. There are several possibilities for action, both before people leave, but also in relation to those who come back. In SF we have subsequently put forward 17 proposals to combat radicalisation and improve the safety of Danes. It is also about strengthening efforts in prisons, giving the police better tools and extending preventive social action. There is enough to tackle and a series of handles that we need to focus on if we want terror to come to an end, and we will. That is why we still do not believe that this is the right time to be able to express our opinion on whether the provisions on treason, i.e. Articles 101 and 102 of the penal code, can be applied to Syrian warriors or other so-called foreign fighters. Thankfully, and thank God, we have the terror paragraphs and tightenings going on. We are open to looking at this, but we are, as I said, as we understand the government is, in doubt as to whether these provisions can actually be applied. The important thing for us is that there should be no doubt that we regard it as treason to go and fight in this way. We are concerned that it is a criminal offence that we should be able to be punished and we should be able to be severely punished if we take such actions. Whether it should be after a terrorist paragraph or a so-called national fraud paragraph, we may in fact be a little less concerned about it. What we are trying to do is to clarify whether the country frauds can be used in this case or whether other changes actually need to be made. We support the text adopted by the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226172731	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226172736	I am aware that it is very important for the right that people who go to war with the Islamic State should be convicted of treason, and I must admit that I have little difficulty understanding it. I do not find it difficult to understand that people like that want to be convicted. The actions of the Islamic State against the civilian population and both military and civilian hostages are absolutely horrible, and it goes beyond my understanding, not only that people can make themselves do such a thing, but also that you can even want to go down to contribute. And if Danish citizens in any way participate in the atrocities of the Islamic State, then they must be prosecuted and punished for their atrocities. What I find difficult to understand is that the right is apparently more concerned with how we punish them for a moral failure towards Denmark, treason than how we get them punished for involvement in war crimes, terror, ethnic cleansing, mass rapes, the murder of men, women and children, hostage takings, and what else can be mentioned. I think that's such creepy deeds that it should be what we used our energy to get people punished for. The Government has asked the Criminal Law Council to look at how we can solve some of the problems that are in relation to punishing people for their actions when they participate with ISIL. I think that is important. It's really, really hard to collect evidence from war zones. It also means that it is very hard to lift the burden of proof, and we in the Enhedslisten think it is very important to try to do something about that. We will, for example: I would very much like to set aside money for a special effort group, if you would like, under the Public Prosecutor's Office for Special Economic and International Crime, so that the investigation and evidence collection may be improved. And that is what we want to do, focusing primarily on punishing people for those atrocities and not for a moral failure towards Denmark. If the Criminal Code Council also looks at whether the country fraud clause can be used, then it is fine for us, but we would very much like to make it clear that when you support something as scary as ISIL, the moral failure to Denmark is one of the least that has been committed. And we are much more concerned that it is the scary acts, murders, ethnic cleansing, etc. people are being prosecuted for. I would like to say, however, that if it is true that the Criminal Code Council has been asked to postpone the rest of the work in order to be able to start with consideration of the country-dangerous clause, then we think it is a bad priority, but obviously there is nothing we can do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173110	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173117	I think I needed to understand what you can judge these people for right now, but that's probably fine. I was missing one thing from the rapporteur: in other words, we support the government's proposals for adoption, despite criticism of the government for having done something wrong with the Criminal Code and so on, or what is the situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173142	Yes, as the Socialist rapporteur read out, it is a proposal for adoption that has also been tabled on behalf of the Enhedslisten, so it supports the Enhedslisten. Well, I don't know if I was expressing myself unclearly, or if Mr. Søren Pind is not aware of it, but participation in murders, war crimes, terror, ethnic cleansing and rape is in fact still gone something that one can be punished for, fortunately, since under Danish law. And what we think is the crucial problem is whether we collect enough evidence to actually punish people for those atrocities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173218	Sir. Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173221	But that's the whole point of raising the national fraud debate. Because there are the problems of proof in relation to all the other things that Mrs Pernille Skipper raises. Nevertheless, Denmark is one of the countries that has delivered the most Syrians, and at the same time we have not been convicted of any such crimes. because you do not want to apply or cannot find out how to use the country-slayer clause. Right now, the Criminal Law Council is considering it, and there is even now a law professor who says that the mere fact of thinking about it can prevent one from actually judging by it. Does it not give cause for surprise that not one person has been convicted for the time being?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173256	No, there is no wonder, because it is difficult to lift the burden of proof of acts committed in war zones. I don't know where sir. Søren Pind has the idea that it should be easier to prove that you have gone down and participated in the fight with ISIL than it is to prove that you have gone down and participated in the fight with ISIL and helped carry out some of the actions I have mentioned. Well, I don't understand why one is easier to prove than the other, and I think it's something, sir. Søren Pind made it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173331	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173334	I'm sure it's nothing, sir. Søren Pind's made it up, but something that's the basis. But we can have that discussion later. What I would like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is that we are not concerned about using the national fraud clauses and that the government's proposal, which the Left voted in favour of, was rejected in relation to taking the passport from the Syrian warriors and the proposal put forward by the Left in relation to a genuine entry ban in some of these areas where there is a great deal of terrorist activity. These are both proposals which, with greater or less effect, we can discuss this as an effective protection against some of these Syrian warriors and Danish citizens who are participating in these struggles. The obvious question I have to ask Enhedslisten: When you say no to all these things, yet say that you will do something, what exactly is it that Enhedslisten will do to protect Denmark from what is currently the greatest terrorist threat, namely that 110 people, some of whom are Danish citizens, have travelled from Denmark to Syria and thus return and pose a security risk in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173436	Well, now I mentioned an example in my rapporteur's speech, which I am sure Mr. Karsten Lauritzen heard. He just wanted to test if I could still remember it myself. It was that we would very much like to help strengthen the Attorney General for Special Economic and International Crime, so that perhaps we can improve the possibility of lifting some of the evidence problems that exist. Because we think it is a huge problem that people who have been involved in or supported ISIL cannot be prosecuted; we think so. In addition, we have also proposed that, for example, we should: go in and support some of the democratic forces that are actually fighting in Syria and Northern Iraq directly from the Danish state, and that attempt is also being made by diplomatic means to raise this matter with Turkey, which is supposed to be Denmark's real, very good friend, but still has a border that stands pistols for Syrian warriors who travel from Europe into Turkey and then pass the Turkish border into Syria and Northern Iraq to join ISIL. Perhaps some of the capital we have could be used for Turkey there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173542	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173544	Thank you for that answer. The Enhedslisten's answer is so among other things. strengthening an international organisation or public prosecutor's office. I think to be honest, there's more to it. And I am very surprised that Enhedslisten says that we must prosecute these people, but have not reached the conclusion that even the government has come to, namely that Danish legislation at this stage may not be enough. I have to ask Enhedslisten: will you completely rule out the possibility that you will be involved in looking at Danish legislation when the Criminal Law Council makes its statements? We must remember that criminals in the gang environment are also known, for example. Great A has traveled to Syria. And I think that most Danes can see a need to perhaps tighten up Danish legislation a little so that we can ensure that what they are doing in Syria is actually something for which they can be judged.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173632	The rapporteur from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173634	Well, I'm sorry, but that's just something mysterious to say. We are all interested in stopping those people who have the mad thought of going down and supporting a murderous, fascist organization like ISIL. And we are in the Enhedslisten extremely concerned about condemning them for any actions they may commit if they leave. We are in complete agreement. There are some problems of proof, and I do not think that is something we can change in such a way with a snap in Danish legislation, but could we, so we would like to do so. What we disagree about is how we do it best. In addition, we have a number of other proposals on how to prevent people from actually taking their place, which we think is one of the most important things. And I'm gonna keep my mouth shut now that I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173722	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226173731	Thank you. This is an important issue, and I really believe that the people expect a united Parliament to condemn it if there are Danish citizens taking part in wars against our own soldiers. And as far as we can see, it is, in fact, a unanimous Parliament that condemns it. That is, of course, the good thing, and that is why it is perhaps very good that the Left has raised this question, which is both a point of law and a question of defence. That is also why there are two ministers to answer that question. So if we agree that we condemn it, if there are Danish citizens who go to Syria and fight against the soldiers we have sent out into the world to defend our values and democracy etc., then that is a good start. Then the big question, and that is where the waters apparently separate: what do you do about it, since we know that a number of Danes actually do it? We are even in a situation where we are relatively the country that delivers most of the kind that has a behavior that should call for the greatest distance. That is where the water separates, and it is, in fact, a rather unfortunate signal to send to the people who would like to always stand behind our soldiers when we send them out, that we are actually not quite so clear on what we are doing with these people who are basically failing and committing treason. Do we have a government that dares to use the things that are needed to reach a situation where we can say that those who do so can be judged for their action? And when you take such an action as is outlined here, it will always end in my optics in one place, namely that it is to perceive as treason. That is why we need clarification: can people who take such a detestable act and return to Denmark be judged? That is what the question is all about, that is, what the government's view is of it. We note that nothing has happened so far, and that is why we are also included in the motion for a resolution put forward by the rapporteur of the Left to the Danish Parliament, which also criticises the fact that the government apparently does not have a tool or is ready to point out a tool to do something about it, apart from some fine intentions and somewhat blurry statements. When you do not have a clear speech, there is no saving that there are two ministers answering the question. That is why the main question that remains unanswered is whether we have a government that will basically not take the steps needed to ensure that these people can be judged for treason. For their work is treason, there is no doubt about that. That is why we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226174057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226174106	Thank you, Madam President. In the Conservative People's Party, there is no doubt that we must punish traitors. And Article 101 and Article 102 of the Penal Code, called the laws governing fraud, do so, among other things. punishable to provide assistance to Denmark's enemies in connection with war and other hostilities. I think it's obvious to make it a crime to stand on the side of the IS against Denmark and our allies in the coalition. Unfortunately, it is not quite so easy to lure a clear answer out of the government. The question is highly topical. We have just sent F-16 pilots and with them a number of others from our defenses in war where they risk meeting young men from Denmark who have armed themselves and declared themselves sacred warriors in IS and as opponents of the West and I choose to say in IS instead of ISIS and ISIL and everything else. But we are still left with the question: Does the Danish government believe that you betray Denmark if you as a Dane go down to Islamic State and for example. shoots at Danish fighter planes and their pilots? If the government believes that this is treason, then we must look at whether the legislation is sufficiently precise so that the Danish IS warriors can also be convicted of it. The Foreign Minister has tried to minimize the matter by saying that it does not matter, because we do have legislation on terrorism. And yes, we do, but does it make a difference? The prosecution will be able to claim a violation of both the terror clause and Article 101 and Article 102 and, if the Islamic State warriors cannot be convicted of terrorism, it is well that we can then have them convicted of national fraud. Much has changed since 1952, when the paragraph on country fraud was last amended, including the approach to war. And if it is necessary to make it clear that the provisions on country fraud also apply to so-called armed conflicts, let us look at it. It only requires the government to agree to betray Denmark if you take the side of Islamic State and shoot at Danish soldiers or at those with whom we are in coalition. But the government won't really tell if it is. In those words, the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal for adoption put forward by the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226174332	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's time for the ministers. No, neither the Minister of Justice nor the Secretary of Defense would like to speak. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners who will be given the floor again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226174359	The government chooses to answer the question silently after the speeches by the rapporteurs. We can do that, but unfortunately this shows that there is no answer to what all the bourgeois parties have said. Not a single case has been raised... you wait. It has been established by a law professor that the waiting period damages the ability to convict those who commit the crime. And then we can sit here and wait, even though the government says that everything is clearly clear, namely that it is treason. This must simply be something the Danish people cannot understand. However, one might look for the answer in the government's own proposal for adoption, which does not say a word about treason. It has of course also had to embrace Enhedslisten, who doesn't think that what with treason really is something to spend time on. There's gotta be everything else. There we think it is a pity that the government did not want to promote this matter, so that with the full blessing of a very, very large part of the Folketing, it could have cut through any doubt in order to test whether the paragraphs really work to raise criminal proceedings on treason and to get the final decision. And it does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Criminal Court; in any case, it falls under the jurisdiction of the courts. That's a great shame. I would like to thank the other bourgeois parties for having helped to promote this debate and the proposal for adoption. We have not got anything out of it yet, but it is my hope that it will happen before too long. At any rate, I can guarantee that this is a matter that the Left will pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226174600	Thank you, sir. Søren Pind. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I have to say that the vote on the proposals for adoption, as mentioned earlier, will not take place until Tuesday 10 March.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226174626	The first rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226174645	This bill is about liberalising and simplifying the free-care housing law. The Free Care Housing Act was introduced in 2007 by a Left Government. The law was introduced because the Left believes that citizens themselves should have an influence on where they should live. The individual citizen knows best himself what suits his or her needs. It is quite fundamental for the Left to have this freedom of choice. We trust that the individual can make the right choice. The Free Care Housing Act specifically increases the choice of nursing homes by allowing companies, self-employed institutions and foundations to run nursing homes in competition with the municipal nursing homes. We in the Left have therefore waited with excitement for this bill. I would like to tell you now that we have been positively surprised. I would like to commend the government. This bill is, in fact, an extension of the freedom of choice in the area of nursing homes. The Left, of course, supports this. There are several parts of the bill that deserve to be highlighted. First of all, the draft law provides for the liberalisation of access to the free-care housing market. The rules in force in this area provide for a maximum of 500 new free-care accommodations to be set up annually. This quota shall be abolished in order to allow free access to the market for certified free-care accommodation providers who have suitable premises. When the annual quota is abolished, this also means that the requirement for tendering is abolished every 10 years. According to the rules in force, free-care homes must be open to competition every 10 years. This requirement has been a major obstacle to the establishment of new free-care homes. Potential free-care providers may, with some justification, fear that after 10 years they will have to dispose of the property. It may quite stop them from entering the market. Another part of the bill that deserves to be mentioned is the changed settlement model. Today there is a national settlement model with three rates for the settlement between the free-care providers and the municipalities. The tariffs are determined on the basis of cost analysis in the municipalities' corresponding offers. However, we often see that municipalities do not really know the full cost of running nursing homes. According to Danish Occupation and Selveje Denmark, there are examples that only wage costs are included in the cost analysis. This does not include the costs of setting up the institution itself, the rent, maintenance and the entire central administration, and it distorts the settlement model. At the same time, practice has also shown that the three tariffs are probably too inflexible. This bill introduces a new settlement model. In the first place, it is possible for free-care providers and municipalities themselves to negotiate transfer prices in place. If the parties cannot reach an agreement, the transfer prices shall be calculated by the local authority. This must be done on the basis of the average cost of the locality of similar offers. In order to ensure transparency, a guide clarifies the costs to be included in the analysis. At the same time, rules will be laid down for the municipal council to be able to provide the basis for their cost analysis. Finally, rules will also be laid down to allow free-care providers to verify the cost analysis carried out by the municipal council. It seems to be a sensible model, but it is a complicated area. So in the Left, we believe that there is a need for a partial evaluation of the settlement model after two years. The proper functioning of the model is essential for the free-care residential area. There are also other parts of the bill that deserve to be highlighted. For example: there are administrative facilities for unaided free-care accommodation, and various simplifications are also made concerning the provision of accounts and the withdrawal of certificates. It is possible to operate free-care homes in rented premises and in newly acquired buildings without conversion. This is all something that helps to make it simpler and more flexible in this area. However, we have a concern, and that is that it should no longer be possible to get 100 per cent. State guarantee to buy a property for free care homes. It is a problem if the mortgage in an outlying area estimates that the commercial value of the building is 0 DKK. However, we are willing to see whether this can be met through the possibility of renting rooms for free-care homes. There can be no doubt that there is a great deal of work in the Ministry to support this bill, and that is why we in the Left believe that it is natural to create a ministerial follow-up group for the first five years. The follow-up group may submit annual progress updates to the committee so that progress can be monitored. The Left supports the bill as we see it as an improvement in the liberalised free-care area. And on behalf of the Conservatives' rapporteur, I must say that the Conservatives also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226175152	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. No one wanted to make a brief comment. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen as rapporteur for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226175203	I have to say that, as the Socialist rapporteur is unfortunately unable to be present, I have promised to read out the rapporteur's speech, and it says this: the 2007 free-care housing law opened up the way for private people to establish and operate free-care homes. After the scheme has now run for a few years, the scheme has been evaluated, and it is in the light of the evaluation and the Government's desire for change that we are today going to deal with this bill on free-care homes. One of the points in the draft law, which I would like to highlight in particular, is that we are proposing to change the settlement system for free-care homes. The current settlement system is both inflexible and inappropriate. Today the rate is set on the basis of a national average, and this means that some municipalities will pay a cost far higher than the cost of a citizen in one of the municipality's own nursing homes. That is not fair, and the Socialists are therefore very pleased that we are proposing that the municipalities and private suppliers should be able to agree on a price for the services provided by the free-care homes and where local considerations can be taken into account. Another point of the bill, which is worth emphasising, is that the municipalities can agree on the authorising right of the nursing homes. This means that the municipalities can better manage the overall capacity of nursing homes and thus make the best use of the municipality's resources. For the private suppliers, this means greater security in relation to the operation and therefore it has been a wish of both the municipalities and the suppliers. When the draft law on free care homes was adopted, it was the social democracy's concern that the necessary coherence was not provided for the elderly. It is a good thing that we are now getting this relationship right. In addition, the draft law provides for free-care accommodation to be set up in rented premises, for the abolition of the requirement for re-supply every 10 years for free-care accommodation, and for a ceiling to be set on the amount of State guarantee to be granted for the construction of free-care accommodation. In addition, there are a number of simplifications and administrative facilitations. With the legislative proposal, we therefore remove some of the problems identified by both municipalities and suppliers. On the socialist side, we are particularly pleased that we are changing the settlement system and the authorising court. With these comments, I should like to say that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226175425	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226175440	Thank you. Our rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, has unfortunately fallen ill, so I have been asked to read out her rapporteur's speech. In the Danish People's Party, we were in favour of the free-care law being voted through on 25 January 2007. In January 2012, Rambøll came up with an evaluation of free-care accommodations, which showed that across existing and potential suppliers as well as municipalities it was emphasised that the legislation is difficult to interpret. The general message was that the law is so complex in terms of understanding that it in itself constitutes a barrier to the spread of the free-care housing system. It must be the case that when a municipality has searched a citizen for a foster home or similar housing form, one also has the right to choose freely to enter into a rental agreement with suppliers of free-care accommodation. The purpose of the Free Care Housing Act was for elderly people and people with disabilities to be free to choose where they would live and whether it should be public or private. We want a wide range of offers for our elderly and people with disabilities. The ideal thing is that a caring citizen is free to choose if they want a special care center or community that is operated in accordance with their previous life pattern, values and outlook. It's a big wish for many people. Unfortunately, we have seen and heard several stories about young people with disabilities being placed in a nursing home for the elderly, and we find this inappropriate in the Danish People's Party. To date, settlements have been made under a tariff system. Municipalities have not been enthusiastic, as they believe that free-care homes have a better economy than municipal nursing homes and institutions. The Danish People's Party has learned that the current settlement model poses a problem as it is too unmanageable and does not take sufficient account of the general cost development in the municipalities. We consider it reasonable that suppliers of free care homes should receive the same price as the municipal supplier of similar offers. There must be a level playing field. The Danish People's Party is open to discussing a new model, but we have doubts as to whether what the Minister is proposing is good enough. Dansk Folkeparti wants a model that gives a true picture of all costs associated with each operation offer. For the present national tariff system, Selveje Denmark proposes the introduction of regional tariff systems. At first sight it seems like a good idea, which we would like to look at in the Danish People's Party. The opportunity to run nursing homes and communities under the Free Care Housing Act provides a fantastic opportunity to organise care and care on the basis of the individual's wishes and needs. It is therefore important that we have fairly simple rules to operate institutions so that initiatives do not drown in bureaucracy and endless negotiations on the economy. The Danish People's Party considers it crucial that in the future there will be an economic opportunity to create free-to-air homes and that the existing ones can survive in the long term. We would like to ask about the state guarantee, which may not exceed 75%. of the total principal amount and the consequences that may result from it. Can we risk credit unions not going into such a loan arrangement? The Danish People's Party also wants answers to the possibility that health care under the Health Act, which is not currently covered by the law, may be covered. Then there may be an opportunity to create more hospice sites. We want answers to exactly what is happening in relation to the changes in the law on individual housing subsidies. There are several questions we just want answers to before we decide to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226175808	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226175816	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Radical Left could not be here this evening either, so I have been given the task of presenting the rapporteur's speech. Bill L 139 is based on the fact that an evaluation has been carried out on the Free Care Housing Act. Against this background, the government wants to make some changes, and we are now discussing these changes. One of the things that we in the Radical Left welcome about the bill is that a new settlement system is being prepared for the provision of care by the free-care provider under the Service Act, something that both the suppliers and the municipalities support. It is also a good thing that the central tariffs are being abolished. The new settlement system ensures that there is a link between the cost level of each municipality and the settlement between the free care provider and the municipality. Another thing that the Radical Left welcomes is that the demand for care and care to be offered every ten years is now being removed. This requirement has created uncertainty for all the parties involved. We also make access to the free-care home market easier, with the ceiling for the annual growth of non-supported free-care homes being removed. In addition, we make the rules more flexible, in relation to which properties can be used as free-care homes, by allowing free-care homes to operate in rented premises, which are bought by a free-care accommodation provider who subsequently wants to set them up as free-care homes. If you are to have access to the market in the future, the only requirement is that the supplier has sufficient premises and that the supplier must be certified by the Social Security Authority. However, we do not change the rules whereby 225 new free-care homes can be supported every year. Today, free-care homes can only be established through the conversion of private buildings or new buildings, and several have expressed the wish that the municipality should be able to sell abandoned nursing homes to the free-care providers, for example, and we now make this possible. In addition, the Radical Left also supports the minor amendments included in this proposal. These include, for example, the simplification of legislation and some administrative facilitation for the owners of non-supported free-care homes. Against this background, we support the bill as a whole. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226180029	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur from the SF, Mrs Sanne Rubinke.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226180041	Now it is the case that, in the SF, we have never seen a need to have the free-care housing law or to have free-care homes. In the early summer of 2014, when there was last a discussion of the future of free care homes when Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution B 91 was discussed, we said that we look with great sympathy at the fact that there are both municipal and self-serving non-profit-care homes, because we want a diversity of offers and an opportunity for civil society to play along. We still think so. At the same time, we called on the Minister to look at the possibilities of changing the notice so that the rates and costs in the free-care homes are in line with the municipal care services and the 10-12 per cent. other self-serving care centres currently run by private organisations. Fortunately, this seems to be the case in this proposal that we are debating today, and of course the Minister is to be thanked for that. It doesn't work out for you to set the price of nursing homes in here. This must be done in the municipalities, so that we avoid unequal competition and overpayment of private offers, but also so that payments to free-care homes do not destroy municipal budgeting in the area of the elderly. This is happening in several municipalities at the moment. There are at least examples in the municipality of Jammerbugt, where a free nursing home is envisaged in Brovst. According to SF's local councillor it will certainly mean a great deal of money in extra costs if the tariffs followed the current legislation. So there you sit right now and you're glad these rates are being changed. In many places we have seen examples of overpayment • often about DKK 70,000. on average per year; resident. This legislation will correct that, and we are delighted about it. But this isn't just about tariffs. It is also about the possibility of being able to make sensible local planning and dimensioning of the offers, the sensible use of taxpayers' money, and that is, of course, all in order to have the utmost care and care for the money. That is why we actually said last year that as long as one obviously has to have such a thing as free-care homes, it is at least very important that the municipalities are fully involved in planning and placing them. We are concerned that it is still the Ministry of Social Affairs alone which approves the individual projects in the case of housing in Group A, they supported housing. Worse still, the revised bill removes the ceiling on the construction of self-funded, unsupported free-care homes. The latter seems to us to be in danger of completely destroying municipal planning and also giving free rein to larger groups that can enter this market with profit making in mind. We do not want this because we do not believe that care for the elderly should be run as a profit-making business on a large scale. As I said in my introduction, we are very much in favour of non-profit organisations taking part in this process with self-serving institutions. It is an old-fashioned and proven model in Denmark, which is operated to most people's satisfaction and with operating agreements with the local authorities. But it's something quite different that this law gives free rein to, and it's not for the benefit of the elderly, for the employees or for the municipalities. And who really benefit from this? It is of course of no use that, at a time when both government and bourgeois opposition are imposing strict financial management on the municipalities on every possible occasion, this area will be released, so that any certified supplier can set up nursing homes also where the municipalities have already closed up nursing homes in order to adapt capacity. We acknowledge that in practice, after 10 years, rebugging would be very difficult to manage and sometimes also undesirable, but by removing that element from the law, it means everything else equally less competition, in fact. As can be seen, we have serious concerns. This is because we have never been in favour of free-care accommodation, but, as I have said, we would also like to limit the non-communal offers so that they could only be established as self-serving institutions with the operating contract of the service or registered social-economic services in order to ensure a value-added that remains in the offers. We do not buy the premise that more free competition should contribute to the welfare of the elderly, and the welfare of the elderly is basically what should be at the forefront, even when it is a proposal like this. Does this have the effect of facilitating the free enterprise of setting up new free-care accommodations? Hell, yeah. Does this make it possible to ease the economic imbalance between municipal nursing homes and free-care homes? Yes, it does, and we appreciate it. Does this have the effect of strengthening the welfare of older citizens? No, I don't think so. Does this proposal contribute to improving the opportunities for municipalities to plan and manage the economy sensibly for the benefit of a strengthened care of the elderly? I don't think so. Does this proposal contribute to strengthening the influence of the municipalities on the burden of expenditure that they are actually required to bear? No, unfortunately, on the contrary. All in all, we are sceptical and unfortunately we cannot say 'yes' or 'no' today. However, we look forward to continuing to discuss matters in committee and have some requests for amendments and modifications to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226180605	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. And then it's sir. Lars Dohn as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226180613	Thank you. I was yesterday with the Committee on Children's and Education in Sweden to see how things are going when companies with a commercial purpose are going to teach and educate children, so I am a little vaccinated against driving that model; that will also be shown in my speech here today. It would take three years for the evaluation of the free-care housing law to be implemented, and one might say that really is to have taken the time of reflection. At the same time, there have been harmful effects on the economy and care accommodation capacity of the municipalities, which the evaluation and the replies given at the time testified to; it has seemed undisturbed. Therefore, the Enhedslisten had looked forward to action being taken against the problems caused by the law to municipalities and ultimately to citizens and taxpayers. Unfortunately, this new draft law, L 139, shows that the government is in no way going to deal with the serious problems caused by the free-care housing law, and I have to go back a little back in history to when that law was introduced. That's when both S and R voted no. I do not know what has happened in the meantime, but the Socialist rapporteur said at the time, and I quote, that this proposal increases inequality, shortens municipal democracy and is the choice of a centralist model in which the minister is given more power. At the same time, the Socialist rapporteur also said that this is yet another example of the government and, in this case, the Minister for Social Affairs choosing a market model in developing our welfare societies. We do not see the treatment of our elderly as a business, but as a shared responsibility. I don't know what happened in the meantime. Developments have shown that the Social Democrats were right at the time: overpayment of free-care accommodation providers has taken place and more bureaucracy has arisen in the municipalities as a result of the law. In addition, problems arise in managing the capacity of the local authorities in which the Ministry allows free-care homes to be established and in effectively depriving the citizen of the free choice, which is otherwise the hypnotic mantra of the bourgeois. The free-care housing law, in which only the free-care provider has the right of authorisation, shows that the free choice is either hypocritical populism or that it is understood alone as freedom for business owners, and that is not what we need. In this situation, a social democratic government should be expected to intervene and abolish a law that promotes market thinking at the expense of people's care needs. Unfortunately, the amendments have a direction towards more market rather than less market; that is deeply disappointing. The amendments will lead to the market gaining ground in the care sector at the expense of equality, at the expense of the tenants and at the expense of the municipalities' ability to take account of all the citizens of the municipality. If you take the specific amendments on paragraph by paragraph, you will see that they pose a number of problems which we are very critical of. These are problems which have also been clarified by the responses received. Some of the problems that will arise are such as increased market access by abolishing the quota system and by allowing free-care homes to operate in rented premises. This is something like the abolition of the balancing rent, that is to say the introduction of something that is all equal to a higher rent for the residents, and it is also the settlement system that aims to eliminate overpayment of the free-care providers. Even if the model and its consequences are finally to be bored out in an upcoming committee work, we can already see the problems. First of all, it has been admitted that the free-care homes must be settled in line with the historical and long-term costs of the municipality for the provision of services to resident citizens. This means that everything else will be equal to a slower adjustment of the cost level in the free-care homes than in the public sector. At the same time, the proposal does not address differences in the care intensity of the municipal free-care homes and services provided. I know from the past that, because of their sovereign authorizing rights, free-care homes can take citizens who fit in with their business concept.You have to use such a word when it's commercial enterprises... depending on what can earn the most money for the supplier. If the free-care homes absorb fresher citizens than the municipality's homes, it will result in overpayment if the system does not take account of the differences in care needs. It is of course no surprise that we have tabled proposals in the past on the abolition of the free-care housing scheme, but we would like to go into the work of the committee, among other things. We have a split vote, so that we can vote in favour of the things that may be positive in this. But summa summarum: The proposal has difficulty getting Enhedslisten support.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226181143	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then that is the last speaker in the rapporteur's line, sir. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226181156	Thank you. This is a proposal from the government that I can commend. In fact, it is a good liberal proposal that gives greater freedom. I was just beginning to worry about getting lost by being enthusiastic about the government's proposals, but now it helped with Mr. Lars Dohn's concerns on behalf of the Enhedslisten: When he's worried and I'm excited, there's like balance in it again. So it's pretty safe. But we would actually like to praise the government, and I hope it will not destroy everything for the Minister that I stand here and commend the government for wanting to abolish the quota. For an essential element of this is, after all, to abolish the quota for free-care homes which is in the law. We have, in fact, been proposing this for a long time from the Liberal Alliance, so I would like to go so far as to say that we are not just supporting the bill, but that we support it wholeheartedly. We can mention that, in the same way as the Danish Free School Act provides Danes with better and more versatile schools, by creating better conditions for the creation of free care homes, the law will also provide Danes with better and more versatile nursing homes in their old age or if they are affected by disability. In fact, we in the Liberal Alliance are confident that most elderly and disabled people, possibly with their relatives, are better able to choose the foster home that suits them than politicians and officials are. Therefore, there must be a free choice of care accommodation once the municipality has searched the elderly or disabled person into a care home. In this way, competition is being created between different providers to provide the best possible care accommodation for the money that has been allocated, and in this way there is also the possibility that there may be differences between nursing homes and that they can meet different needs of the individual elderly or disabled. We are not all the same, and so we are not getting the same, because we are getting older or because we are suffering from disabilities. The elderly and the disabled are different, and they have different perceptions of what a good foster home is. That is why we must not think that one kind of public foster home is suitable for everyone. On the contrary, there is a need to recognise the diversity of the Danes and their right to be different. That is why it is good that this law will no longer provide a quota for the number of new nursing homes to be set up. The bill also contains a new settlement system so that municipalities and suppliers of free-care homes can jointly agree on a tariff or so that the municipal council can set a rate based on how expensive the municipality's own nursing homes are. The calculation of the municipalities' own costs must be based on the guidance provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs. We in the Liberal Alliance are very excited about how the tariff calculation will work in practice. Frankly, we fear that the municipalities will tend to underestimate their own spending on their own nursing homes so that they can get away with underpaying suppliers of free-care homes. But there is nothing else to do but see how it will work in practice. If we see examples of municipalities underestimating their own costs of running nursing homes so that they can underpay private suppliers of free-care homes, then we will crack it down and demand it stopped. But we hope for the best and keep an eye on whether the opposite should happen. All in all, it is a good bill from the government which we can both vote for and which we have thus even gone so far as to commend. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226181530	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs who is allowed to pick up.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226181549	I would like to start by thanking you for a good debate on the legislative proposal, which, as several of the rapporteurs have said, contains a large number of major changes. It's a complicated bill, I admit. In September last year I sent a statement on the evaluation both to the Housing Committee and to the Social Affairs Committee, and in the report I also mentioned the most important of the legislative changes that I am now proposing. One of the very important changes is that I now propose the establishment of a completely new settlement system for the provision of care and care by free-care providers under the Services Act, and I have the impression that virtually all the rapporteurs have praised this. This has been a strong wish of both the municipalities and the suppliers. This has also been necessary, as there have always been many shortcomings in the system we know today, which is in fact based on centrally established national tariffs, and there have been many stories about overpayment and underpayment, and what do I know? Instead, we propose a system based on the need to link the local level of costs and services in each municipality to the settlement of the free care provider, so in short, these things are connected. The settlement system is one we've agreed with KL. We have also had it tested out in a number of municipalities before we proposed it, and there is also in this legislation that after two years we evaluate the settlement system, among other things. Thanks to sir. Leif Mikkelsen and also Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, so that, if there are any shortcomings, we are prepared to look at that part of it. Another change is that we remove the current requirements for the provision of care and care every 10 years, and I think all the rapporteurs have said, at least, that this requirement is inappropriate, because it entails a great deal of uncertainty, both for the residents and for the staff there and for the suppliers who are, and this means that a supplier has to sell off its business if another supplier wins the offer. And what about the citizens, who are, of course, at the heart of this? We facilitate access to the free-care home market so that there is no longer a ceiling on the annual increase in unaided free-care homes. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm said that there has been room for approx. 500 free-care homes a year, and the 225 have been supported. And then the rest, namely 275, has been a quota that could be obtained for unaided free-care homes. That quota has never been used up, and before mr. Lars Dohn now swings completely into the ideological layers of air, so that his feet cannot reach the ground at all. Lars Dohn does. I just want to say that 94 per cent. It is actually the case that there are 1,368 free-care homes today, and the 1,289 of them are non-profit. So in relation to what Mrs Sanne Rubinke said, that is right, very many people almost all, except 6%. It may be the OK Fountain or all sorts of others, but it's non profit. So in this way, virtually no one is dragging money out of it at the moment, I would say to Mr. Lars Dohn. In addition, and this is new, access to the market will then be conditional on the suppliers being certified by the Social Security Authority and on their having suitable premises. There is no change in the rules whereby 225 new free-care homes can be supported each year. I apologise for having had a little cold as it is today, free-care homes can only be established by new buildings or by the conversion or conversion of existing properties belonging to private individuals and which, when converted, are inhabited by people with a need for care. I know that in some places there has been a strong desire for the municipality to sell decommissioned or decommissioned nursing homes and nursing homes with or without residents to a free-care accommodation provider that will drive the homes on a private basis. We are now creating the opportunity for this. In addition, I propose a number of less significant changes. Among other things: I propose some administrative relief for the owners of unaided free-care homes. I propose a few simplifications of the legislation and, of course, I also look forward to the committee reading. A question was raised about the mortgage, and I think it was Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker who asked the question on behalf of her party's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. And it is now the case that if a mortgage institution estimates the property to have a modest value in relation to the purchase price, then the consequence should be that no loans are granted. The purpose of this restriction, which we have put into the law, is to enable the State guarantee to slow down the construction of certain free-care facilities with a very, very low value assessment. And I must also say that the 75% that we have laid down in the law is now established on the basis of actual guarantees provided for free-care homes and general old-age housing. On average, state guarantees for free care homes amount to 65 per cent. of the loans. It is in order that we do not get into a situation where, in short, we give support to something that does not have the value we give support for. And we are higher than the average, one might say, the state guarantee that exists today. Mrs Hjermind Dencker raised the issue of the settlement model. And I would like to say that the model proposed today ensures that there is a link between the transfer prices to the free house providers and the cost-based level of service that exists in each municipality. And, of course, we also need to ensure that citizens who wish to have a free-care home can choose one, even in cases where no agreement has been reached. Therefore, the bill determines how the settlement price should be fixed if the municipality and the suppliers cannot agree, and notice that there is also a right of appeal, and that this settlement model, as I said, will be evaluated after 2 years. I believe that the fact that we have the KL on the ground here will ensure that we get it in, and there is, of course, a right of appeal to it. Then, of course, there have been claims that free-care providers are being overpaid, and in relation to the new settlement system, I would say that it does not include the existing free-care providers who are already there now, because they are, of course, moving on to the system that has been agreed, and that is that the individual supplier has undertaken to provide both personal and practical assistance under the Services Act at a certain price for 10 years. We can't touch that in relation to that part of it. Then there was a question of whether we would take the initiative to give the municipalities influence over the establishment of new free-care homes. It was Mrs Sanne Rubinke who asked that question. Yes, it has been a basic premise from the outset that if you want to have free-care homes, it must be private nursing homes that are operated in competition with the municipal care provision. After all, this means that municipalities must not be able to veto the creation of free-care homes. It would be that way if you agreed to that idea. And one of the municipalities' concerns is that an increase in the number of free-care homes can challenge their capacity planning, as Mrs Sanne Rubinke said, but that is what we are bleeding up for now by allowing municipal authorising rights to be agreed, and so I do not think there is any need for us to change that part of it. In short, it is a complicated proposal and I look forward to answering any questions that may come along, and I thank you for the positive treatment on the part of the Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182336	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182339	Thank you. It is not so many years since the law was introduced. And now the minister is a minister in a government whose aim is to reduce inequality. It has not gone so well for that purpose, because it has to be said that, in relation to what the Socialists have said in the past about this, it is a step in the wrong direction. In other words, when I am accused of having placed my feet firmly in the air, I must refer to what the Socialist rapporteur said when the law was introduced: this will increase inequality, short-circuit municipal democracy, and the choice of a centralist model in which the minister is given more power. It is then another minister that we now have another example of the government and, in this case, the Minister of Social Affairs opts for a market model in developing our welfare societies. Then I ask: what the hell has happened to that relatively short period of time? And why is it that the government is not trying to achieve its own goal of reducing inequality rather than moving further along the market path?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182448	Well, that's actually what I'm gonna say to sir. Lars Dohn, that here we are introducing a completely different settlement model that ensures that no overpayment can be made. It is fully anchored in the daily municipal system. There is, of course, an appeal for it, and I am taking that as a major step forward and an improvement. So that is the question: do we want free-care homes or do we not want them? We have then decided in the government that, with the development that has been there, we have also been able to follow developments that are 94 per cent. In fact, of all the free-care homes, non-profit organisations that establish themselves here, we need to find a way to deal with it. I don't believe there's gonna be a lot of that, sir. Lars Dohn's horror scenario • unsupported free care homes. I simply do not believe that. The quota that was has never been used up. What it is all about is really creating decent, real conditions, both in one way and another; both in terms of the settlement system and in terms of how we handle it with the supported free-care homes. In fact, I believe that we have found a model which gives both parties fairness and which I, as a Socialist, can also defend.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182552	Sir. Lars Dohn for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182554	Earlier today we have had a third treatment of an excellent model which provides more general housing in the large cities. I would like to quote from the information manager today: 'The policy is to want to, and the government and its parliamentary majority have happily had the courage to do so here, in the context of the law we adopted earlier today. It goes on to say: "It is sad to think about how much genuine social reform the government could have got through during this term if it had not fearfully declined to use its majority. A similar fear is hardly to be expected of a potential. future bourgeois government. ▪ This law may later this year be left to a future bourgeois government that will not hold back.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182642	First of all, it is always good to be able to read what others have written, so you are free to think for yourself. Having said that, I would like to say that I am perfectly capable of defending this legislation. I think it is a good thing that we come up with proper, reasonable terms for the settlement system and that if we want free-care accommodation, and we have said so, we would like to ensure proper conditions also for those who provide free-care accommodation. As I said, the fear which my party had in the past, namely that some people would withdraw capital from it, has not proved to be justified by that part of it, because it is in fact the case that non-profit organisations are working on it here. Compared to how many elderly homes we have and how many nursing homes we have, it is a tiny drop in the ocean, and so, I would say to Mr. Lars Dohn, it is also important that it is under the current government that we adopt this because it cannot then be moved again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182732	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Urban and Housing Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182750	The first rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182817	Thank you. When our rural rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Danielsen, has no opportunity to be present, it is instead...
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182827	I'm just being corrected. Actually, it's the minister first. That's the order. I'm the one who switched. So I apologize, and then it's the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs. The Minister could have saved a trip up and down the stairs there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226182858	I had to go down anyway to pick up my speech, and I wanted to pick it up quickly. But I thought it might be, it was a completely new practice that we were about to implement here in the Folketing. Having said that, we must now deal first with a motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. With the proposal, the SF calls on the government to carry out mandatory impact assessments of legislative proposals if the draft law is deemed to have significant positive or negative consequences for rural, peripheral or island development. The Government is invited to explain it in the draft law's observations as part of the basis for the Danish Parliament's consideration of the bill. I would like to begin by commending the SF for a number of motions for resolutions and for joining us in this area. It's good to see. As a minister for rural areas, I am naturally concerned that strong forces both here in the Folketing and around the country focus on finding solutions to the challenges facing rural areas and peripheral areas today. There is no doubt that this government has seriously put rural areas and urbanisation on the agenda. It is not our intention simply to reverse this urbanisation that we are currently seeing. It is not an end in itself to get people to move exclusively to the countryside. On the other hand, it is our ambition that everyone who wants to live in the countryside should be given the opportunity to do so. In short, we need a country in balance. A large number of initiatives have been taken which have helped put action behind the words, and the government intends to continue its efforts. Our position has been clear since the government took office in 2011. We want a coherent country, both now and in the future. I have sent that message several times, among other things. from this place as late as December at the examination of B 17, which was also a SF proposal. That is why I have worked hard to get initiatives going to ensure, among other things. employment and resettlement in all regions of the country. As I have said, we have launched a whole series of initiatives which I will not list here today. However, I would like to say that we are very aware of the need and of the challenges. This is among other things. That is why we have established the ministry for which I am Minister. With a rural ministry, we have ensured that both across the government, but also across the many areas of work, there is naturally coordination within the government and the Folketing for the benefit of the citizens of rural areas. That is also why we have worked with determination on sound framework conditions and on providing financial means to ensure rural areas in the future and also to ensure that they are attractive to citizens. Coordination and cross-zonal attention are essential for policy action in favour of rural areas, outermost regions and islands. In the current practice of adopting legislative proposals, there is already an opportunity to carry out what is called an impact assessment. It can be seen in the Guide on Quality of Law, and it is stated in chapter 7. 1: • Both legislative proposals and administrative proposals should be assessed with a view to identifying significant regional consequences. For all legislative proposals and administrative proposals with significant regional implications, a more detailed assessment of these consequences should be carried out. The guide therefore calls for the Council to assess the proposals so that it can give rise to a more detailed impact assessment which the Council ministers, with their professional skills, will be fully qualified to carry out. I believe that the practice described in the guide is both sensible and adequate. The proposal we are discussing here today will, in my opinion and in the opinion of the government, lead to unnecessary bureaucracy of the legislative process, and the government and I do not think that is appropriate. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183242	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183248	Now it is the case that legislation is being adopted which at least affects islands and rural areas, in a very large number of ministries. Each of them can make a great deal of sense, but when you put them in some pile on top of each other, you suddenly created a very, very toxic cocktail that affects our rural areas in a really bad way. I think this has been the case with a lot of legislative proposals. My intention with this is really just to raise awareness of how legislation affects our rural areas and that there should be an automatic in it. So can the Minister justify why it is important to carry out automatic gender equality assessments of legislative proposals, while there is no automatic in us also starting to look at rural areas, which have been badly challenged in these years?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183335	When you have decided to make gender assessments, it is because a majority in the Folketing means it. That is quite the reason why I should like to say so. Indeed, there is an opportunity in existing legislation, and virtually all legislation in Denmark affects our rural areas or peripheral areas. This is going to be an unnecessary red tape. Today, in fact, there is an opportunity if there are things that particularly affect rural areas, and I do not think that it should be imposed on the government to make unnecessary red tape of all legislative proposals. There will be a large number of legislative proposals which will, of course, affect people in rural areas but will not change the conditions, and that will then have to be explained every time. In short, we need really, very much extra time on the basis of SF's proposal here. What is being proposed today is that if there are specific initiatives that have a particular interest or affect rural areas in a special way, then you can do so. That is why we do not believe that we should adopt the proposal that the SF is making here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183429	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183431	However, it is not intended to spend a lot of time on something that is not needed to make an assessment of. Because if you consider that it does not affect rural areas, then you should not do anything further. My point is just that rural areas are challenged in these years, and I think it would be very good to have an automatic in that every time we make a bill we have an understanding and an awareness of how this bill affects the outermost regions. Then it may well be that we choose to adopt it anyway, even if it has an impact that we basically do not like. The challenge is that I do not always believe that there is the same consciousness in all ministries. And then again there is the challenge that the ministries are in Copenhagen, they are not in the outermost regions, so it is not certain that you are as concerned about this agenda as they are around Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183523	Now I think that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is doing it, underestimating the work we are doing in the government to actually ensure that rural areas have proper conditions. We have been working on this for these years, even though the Ministry is in Copenhagen. However, I must not say that it is already part of today's assessment of both legislative proposals and administrative proposals in order to identify significant regional consequences, i.e. that the SF will add something on top of what already exists. It already says in the legislation today that for all legislative proposals and administrative proposals with significant regional implications, an impact assessment should be carried out. And if this resolution is adopted, it will mean unnecessary bureaucracy of the legislative process, and that is why we cannot vote for it. But it is certainly not out of a lack of interest in rural areas, where we really are passionate about making a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183614	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183618	Thank you. After all, the Minister just took the opportunity to beat himself up a little: never before has there been a government or a minister who has done as much for rural areas as the one we have now. I assume that the Minister is fully aware that what makes rural areas live is that there are jobs, that as a family you can set up, earn a living and feed your family. This is the prerequisite for living in the countryside. And we have seen and see rural development because there are no jobs. We see a tormented agriculture whose accompanying companies, like the abattoirs, are closing down. So does the Minister think there is reason to beat himself up and say: never has so much been done for rural areas? Yes, it is true that if they were to be dismantled, then things are going very well, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183706	I'd like to say to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, that there has never been a rural minister before, so I can safely say that no minister has done so much for rural areas. Having said that, I would like to say that it is clear that our rural areas have been challenged in these years. They are challenged by a financial crisis for funding. They are challenged by the fact that there are actually fewer and fewer jobs in agriculture. 2.6% feeds on agriculture, horticulture and fishing. Just when we were young it's still a few years ago there were 55-60 000 farmers and a much larger downstream industry with machinery stations, blacksmiths, carpenters, electricians, etc. Today we have become so effective, and in these years there are 12 000 farms, and in 5-8 years there may be 5 000 left. This means that there is a decline. What we have done is that we have improved the framework conditions. What we have tried to do is to create conditions for growth through local resources, through a food action plan, through an energy action plan with 40 to 50,000 jobs, by focusing on tourism, supporting what may be out there. And by the way, I just want to say that none of us can force people to stay there. That is why we must make it attractive to be there, and that is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183809	Sir. Mr Leif Mikkelsen, on behalf of the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183811	Yes, and we are over-implementing EU rules and fertilising 37 per cent. less than the Germans and so on, so we are very well on the way to helping rural areas where agriculture still matters with accompanying industries etc. But that is because of the framework conditions for our business community. Workplaces have been removed from Denmark for a number of years, which also happened before the time of the present minister. And what is the real reason why we see this distortion of Denmark and the migration from the country towards the city to an extreme extent, so municipalities must sit and budget with a decline in population • is our tax burden in Denmark, it is our tax burden, it is an imbalance between the private and the public sector. So the day the Minister makes proposals to correct that, the Minister can count on our vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183858	I would say that we have gone much further than the resolution here. Having said that, however, I would like to say that we are always willing to stand for a debate on rural development. I believe that the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democrats take a very different view of how we develop our society. After all, we do not entirely agree that there should be as much savings in the public sector as Mr. Leif Mikkelsen claims. There are some important differences here, and that is why we are in politics. We do not agree with the fact that you have to fire almost one in ten public employees in order to save as much money in the public sector as Mr. Leif Mikkelsen has proposed to improve the framework conditions for a few. That would significantly increase inequality, but it is a completely different discussion that we can take another day.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183934	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, and this time it is true.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226183944	Normally it is said that the third time is the lucky time I just hope that this is the second time. Well, I'll try again. As our rapporteur cannot be present, I am going to give the speech on behalf of the Left's rural rapporteur, and I must start by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservatives. Today we are discussing B 46, which is a proposal that the government should carry out an impact assessment of the impact of legislative proposals on rural, peripheral and island development. I would like to start by saying that I think it is remarkable that the SF, which, as a government-leading party, has had every opportunity to implement initiatives that would lift rural areas, has so far failed to do anything in this regard. But better late than never. And it is all the other equally gratifying that the SF now 31⁄2 years into the reign of the Red Block has opened its eyes to rural areas. However, having waited so long for the SF resolution on rural areas, the result that is being discussed today is, frankly, somewhat disappointing. Unfortunately, it is another proposal that does not address initiatives or solutions to ensure positive rural development. The proposal is that an official work in Copenhagen should assess the consequences of a bill in rural areas. We in the Left do not agree with that. The consequences for rural areas are not economic consequences in which two lines can be placed under a fait accompli drawn up by an official work. In addition, it will be very resource-intensive if an official body is to assess the impact of all legislative proposals on all rural areas. It is a political task to assess the consequences of a legislative proposal; consequences which the political parties assess very differently. For example: according to the Minister for Finance, the Government considers that the Train Fund DK is the initiative which is the government's greatest victory for rural areas. That is not how we see it in the Left. We believe that the consequence of the Train Fund DK is that trains will travel through rural areas and stop only in the largest cities. When SF's then tax minister, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, centralized rural tax centres, considered SF that it would have no particular impact on rural areas. We do not agree with that either. On the contrary, the Left wants an active relocation of state jobs. We believe that this will help to create growth and development. These are just two examples of the impossibility of the SF proposal. We want more people to take political responsibility for rural areas and more parties to come up with concrete proposals on what can be done for rural areas. The Left does not support the proposal, nor do the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184227	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen as rapporteur for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184236	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the SF for highlighting with this resolution the conditions of our rural areas and islands. There is no doubt that this is a matter of great concern to the Socialists and myself personally. I believe that here in the Folketing we have a great task in securing a Denmark where there are reasonable conditions, growth and opportunities for a good life in all parts of the country. In the Social Democratic Party we are very concerned about securing a Denmark that is linked and in balance. Our rural areas and islands are challenged, especially in terms of settlements and jobs, as has also been mentioned. In order to meet these challenges, we have established a ministry in this area, which means that the government has a daily focus on creating better conditions in our rural areas and on our islands. With this resolution, the SF envisages that the government should carry out mandatory analyses of the impact of the bill on our rural areas and islands. That sounds very good, but impact assessments are already part of the legislative process. As the Minister's speech also indicated, there is now an opportunity to carry out impact assessments of both legislative proposals and administrative proposals, if deemed necessary. That is why I and the Socialists believe that the SF's proposal will merely lead to unnecessary bureaucracy of the legislative process, and ultimately it will not benefit our rural areas and islands. That is why the Socialists cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184412	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184419	Some of what was used in the argument put forward by the Minister was the fact that it can already, if it turns out, when we have examined it in all ministries' areas of responsibility, that it is not done, so it does not use it, will the Socialists help to see whether there should be an automatism in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184441	Of course, I've been thinking about this. At any rate, as may have been the case with the SF rapporteur, I have thought: well, all right, you can actually do that, so why doesn't anyone take advantage of it if it is needed around here? In fact, as politicians, I think that we should seize our own bosom and that it is now up to us to look at the rapporteurs from the Rural Committee to ensure that, where we think it is appropriate, an assessment is made of the impact on rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184513	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184516	But that was not quite an answer to my question. I think the rapporteur knows that, with all the rapporteurs in here and all the legislative proposals circulating in different forums, we rural rapporteurs cannot keep their hands on everything. At any rate, as rapporteur for a small party, I cannot keep a complete eye on what all my colleagues are doing at any time. So I would like to ask again: if it turns out that it is not actually being used very much to make such an assessment as is possible today, will the Socialists help to consider whether there should be a greater automaticity in it? I think we need to create a greater awareness of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184556	Over the last few years, it has become apparent that we in the Rural Committee have developed a way of working, in which we are actually looking at quite a lot of legislative proposals, which are dealt with in all sorts of other ministries and other committees, and in which we then choose to go in and take part in our own committee. In fact, I think that we already have an entrance there, by looking at what proposals are in the various resorts, in other words, looking at what some of them we think have an impact on what is happening in rural areas. In fact, I think we can say that again... I could catch my own bosom. In view of the fact that we have a parallel discussion in the Rural Committee of those proposals, we could ask for an impact assessment if that is what makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184642	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur, and then it is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226184652	The proposal here is to include in legislative proposals consequences for rural areas and islands, just as they do today with economic consequences and environmental consequences. Of course, we politicians cannot always understand the economic consequences of a legislative proposal, so it makes very good sense for us to have officials to figure it out. Similarly, we do not always know whether a dying seed breed lives in an area where we intend to expand a motorway, so it makes sense that there are people to help us with the environmental consequences. But when it comes to rural areas and islands, I cannot really think of just one case where deterioration was not predictable. When you close state jobs in the province, of course, it generates less working conditions for the other jobs, and then it gives worse conditions for school and leisure life. Yes, and if you add less money to ferry operations, that means, of course, less settlement and occupation on our islands. So the impact on rural areas and islands is actually very straightforward and transparent. But if at times they are not, we are fortunate enough that our rural areas are teeming with talented and committed people, whom I feel deeply privileged to have come to know in the time I have spent in Parliament. Those people always tell us if there is legislation on the way that has consequences for them, whether we have asked for their opinion or not. I'm really happy about that, and I feel really comfortable with that. If we were finally to leave that task to the officials in the ministries, there would be two things we should pay particular attention to. Firstly, having to examine the consequences for rural and island communities of some officials is a greater task and a very time-consuming task, which will of course also be associated with financial burdens. In addition to the other proposals that the SF is spitting out right now, this is not funded either. The second thing we need to be aware of is that whatever the colour of a government, the officials of the ministries are certainly not for rural areas. After all, the officials of the ministries must make the bill negotiable, so when they have to register consequences, they are only obliged to write the direct consequences and not necessarily the indirect effects that they may have. Such descriptions will never be complete, and they will never give a true picture of the real consequences. Because they will never be able to tell us that if five state jobs are closed in a small town, then the electrician will have to dismiss his apprentice because there is no longer enough work for him or that the badminton club will have to shut down its youth department because suddenly four children are moving from there. We would never know such things if we agreed to this bill. But we are told this by the people who live there, because they know that much better than the officials in Copenhagen. It is good practice for a resolution to be tabled to do so on the basis of a need arising. And I just cannot think of a single deterioration in rural areas that has been made without knowing the consequences of this. And if the SF is going to bother to lead back just the last 10 years, I guarantee that, in relation to every deterioration in rural areas, we have had consultation responses from people in rural areas and on the islands who have warned against it. And if you ask me who I would rather listen to the officials who sell the goods, or those who live in rural areas and islands, who have to live with the consequences thereof, then I know who I will get my knowledge from. That is what I want from the experts who live in rural areas and the islands. The people who live and live there will tell if I'm about to screw up, and I know they will. Their knowledge of rural areas is quite enormous, and there is no greater among officials in Copenhagen. These are the ones I want to listen to, which is why the Danish People's Party cannot, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185124	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185129	But does the Danish People's Party not think that it will be a bit time-consuming if we go around all rural areas and all islands and ask high and low? I agree that there is an opportunity to give a hearing, and I think that is a very good thing, but sometimes it will be a little coincidence whether people actually discover a bill. And then you're in a jam when it's adopted. So couldn't it be a very good idea if some kind of recommendation was made for each bill? Then we can always discuss whether there should be more or less derived effects. We can try to correct that and design it as we think it should look. That is something we can discuss politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185210	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I cannot think of just one example of a deterioration that has occurred in rural areas, which was not known when the proposal was adopted. I am not going to ask those who live in rural areas and islands, because they are well aware of what we are doing in here, and they are really good at coming for themselves, and they always do, whether we ask for it or not. So we don't have to go out looking for knowledge, because they're good at informing us. I trust them very much, and we have an ongoing dialogue with them all the time. Actually, they're the very best at assessing this. However, I would also like to say that the legislation that comes into being in this area is so straightforward that we politicians know that. SF is welcome to give examples of proposals where you can say: Here we did not have a Chineseman's chance to figure out that it would have consequences for rural areas. If you could just give me one example, we'd have something we could talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185309	Thank you to the rapporteur for DF. Then it is Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig from the Radical Left as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185323	Thank you for the floor. Once again, we need to consider a resolution which focuses on the issues that exist in our outermost regions. It only shows that the problem of Denmark being in imbalance is a concern of the Folketing, just as it concerns both the Radical Left and the government. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 46 is that every new legislative proposal, which is deemed to have significant positive or negative consequences for rural development specifically, in the outermost regions and in our islands, must carry out an impact assessment or assessment, if you like, of the impact that the bill in question will have. Like previous motions for resolutions, a resolution has been tabled here which is very sympathetic in its zeal to do something for our rural and peripheral regions and islands. In the Radical Left, however, we believe that the proposal will not solve any specific problems in our rural areas, but that it will be far too far-reaching to have to carry out an impact assessment in every legislative proposal because of the red tape that will result from everything else being equal. The Radical Left believes that we are well covered by the guidelines that already exist in this area. They are also mentioned earlier, but this is the case with the circular of 16 September 1998 in which the Prime Minister's Office has laid down rules for mandatory comments on a draft law which, among other things, includes: covers the following: an assessment of economic and administrative consequences for the state, municipalities and regions; an assessment of significant economic and administrative consequences for the economy; an explanation of administrative consequences for citizens. In addition, the Ministry of Justice, in its June 2005 Guide on Quality of Law, has stated that in addition to the mandatory requirements which I have just mentioned, other consequences of a bill should be mentioned, for example. the consequences of regional policy. In view of both the mandatory requirements and the other consequences that should be identified, I believe that further measures such as impact assessments are an unnecessary red tape measure. The Radical Left and the government have just tried to debureaucratise where we have been able to do so during our reign. The Radical Left cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185533	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Lars Dohn as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185542	Thank you. I cannot add so much new, but I would say that it is commendable that the SF wants more attention to be paid to rural policy. However, I would like to say that with the organisation of a special rural ministry and a rural committee, I actually think that in many ways we are very well running. There is a lot of talk about committees as Parliament's workshops and that things are going very quietly there. But that cannot be said of the rural committee. There is always unrest and discussion, and it has to be said that delegations from outside are diligent to come. I do not really think anything is happening that we are not being made aware of. For example: organisations such as the Joint Council of Rural Regions are very good at pointing out if there are problems in rural areas. That is why I think it is crucial whether we are covered by the circular on the quality of legislation and I have not yet come across the need to tighten it up. If the authors of the motion for a resolution can come up with proposals which show that things are not being dealt with properly, then we must have that discussion. But at the risk of agreeing with the Minister, I believe that we should be careful not to create a legislative bureaucracy which is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185731	Thank you, sir. Lars Dohn. Then it's mr. Mr Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for LA.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226185744	Thank you. It is a very sympathetic proposal. However, it may not really matter, because it is not a paper tiger that is needed in relation to rural areas. And perhaps it is not the many patchwork solutions that we have tried over time with different forms of funding and what I know when there are some basic problems that are a barrier to people settling in rural areas. The basic problems stem from the framework conditions we offer to the professions that should be there. You can attend all sorts of meetings at the moment. The rural associations hold many general meetings, and the banks hold general meetings and then try to listen to those in the Jutland area. Their message is that it is about the framework conditions, and that is what we are talking about everywhere, in business, etc. And what are framework conditions? It's taxes and charges. These are the costs they have, which hamper and affect the industries that should be in rural areas and provide jobs there. Then it doesn't help anything that we're sitting in here with a paper tiger and saying that we'd better take a look at it in the legislation, and then we'll find a little subsidy and so on. That is why, of course, I am a little saddened that not even a minister understands what is in the Liberal Alliance's plan, which I mentioned, about what is really useful. It has even been calculated by the Ministry of Finance and approved by the Minister for Finance and his Ministry, and even the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs must surely acknowledge that this is what needs to be done. When the minister falls due to say that he won't fire one in ten, as sir. Leif Mikkelsen will, it really does testify to either lack of understanding or ignorance or what is worse, sir. Minister. In fact, I think I will consider whether we should not send that plan to the Minister so that we can really sort this out. We point out, of course, that it is necessary to achieve a different balance between the private and public sectors by means of natural departures in the public sector, so that every time 20 retires, and this will happen many times in the years to come, 17 employees are employed. Then it's solved, and then we'll get 124,000 jobs in the private sector, so we'll have that much added value in Denmark. It is a liberal society that will move forward, Minister. This is probably not in the cards for the Minister, and that is also why I say that it is no use doing anything before we get that choice and change the color of the government so that some of these plans can be implemented, and some of these tools can be used so that we can have a society that is moving forward. In fact, it is doubtful that we are twisting Denmark so badly. And I'm going to make the great admission from this Parliament's platform that it's not just this government that's guilty. There has been a serious slip under the VKO, and that is also why, as we approach the election, I will be a traveler to warn against a VKO majority again in the future. That would be a scandal. That is why it is very good to vote civilly and not secure the VKO a majority and then get the policy that we had for 10 years, which provided 40,000 more public sector employees and destroyed the framework conditions also in rural areas. So it is quite clear that there is enough to do, Minister, and that is something else that is needed, other than the resolution we have here, that we have to look at it when we deal with a legislative proposal. So we can't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190115	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190120	However, it was an excellent election campaign post here from Parliament's platform, a little advertising from the Liberal Alliance. I can see that there is no support for this proposal, and I take note of that. However, I think that I will nevertheless try to examine the extent to which such a statement is used in the various ministries. So I can give an assurance from the Chair that it will be a task for the Minister to obtain information on this from the various ministries. I would just like to say to the rapporteur of the Left that I do not think it is quite fair that one should be sent to town with such a somewhat polemical speech about SF's efforts over time, when the SF's rapporteur cannot ask about it, which is the custom of not doing when someone has been sent to town with other people's speeches. And I'll take note of that, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, who is the chairman of the committee, has actually had similar thoughts at some point. So maybe we're not that far apart, but maybe still when it comes to it. Thank you for the debate. I don't think the last word has been said in this case. Now I am going to keep digging, and maybe we will have another debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190237	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190241	It is simply because I am a little curious to hear what the SF's background is to make this proposal at all. So I would like to hear from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt: can the rapporteur make a statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190310	There may be a great deal of proposals where we actually know this in advance. But I think it is quite different when you have a bill and a warning black and white that it will have this effect. Because sometimes I think that you close your eyes a little to the consequences of some of these laws. I can mention briefly: municipal reform, judicial and police reform, for example. the new closing law. It is quite possible that we may have a feeling that something has consequences, but I think that when it is black and white, it means something quite different. We just need a completely different focus on it. Because I think that these proposals individually make real sense. We all want super hospitals where we can get the best cancer treatment, and of course we have to go for it. But when we make super-sickhouses and municipal reform and police reform and all sorts of other reforms and bring them together in a heap, it will actually be a poisonous cocktail for our rural areas. I think there has been a whole new awareness that we must therefore do more for our rural areas, according to the debate that has taken place in recent years, about the cohesion force in Denmark. That development has just accelerated, and this simply underlines the need for us to do more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190426	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190427	The rapporteur now mentions the reforms. To them we were given consultation answers which indicated problems in rural areas as a result of the reforms we adopted, so there we have not passed laws in ignorance. So I would like to ask more directly: since, under this government here, SF helped to centralise the tax centres and environmental centres, which we under the VKO decentralised, was not SF aware that this would have consequences for rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190503	We may have been aware of this, as we have been aware by a large number of other legislative proposals. But I think it is much, much harder to take a decision that goes against, if it is that it is black and white, that it has the expected effect here. And I say that it may well be that we choose to do some things with our eyes open, but this is about all the rapporteurs being aware that this is about the cohesion of our society. And I do not think that awareness is as present with a tax rapporteur or a health rapporteur or whatever it may be as it is with us working on it in this committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190544	Thank you to the rapporteur for the draftsmen of the SF. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150226190602	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow Friday 27 February 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
