ParlaMint-DK_20151211100005	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Karina Adsbøl (DF) and Karin Nødgaard (DF): Request no. F 10 (Will the Minister explain the current remuneration system for care and network care families, focusing on the fact that several foster families have experienced a direct or indirect threat of termination of the care contract or having their foster child moved if they claimed help or support for it, including explaining whether the Minister will make changes in the area? ) The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151211100026	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. I should like to ask whether anyone wishes to speak before voting on this derogation. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211100044	The vote shall be taken on the consent. The vote will end. In favour of 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The consent is thus granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211100125	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? This is what Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen, as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211100155	As I have also said at both first and second readings, we find it very, very unfortunate that this draft law is being rushed through, and not least a legislative proposal with so many unresolved issues, and I will come back to that. I think it is a sad tradition to think that policy can be rushed through in this way. It can be said that it is both a problem for quality that is such a reason why we have a period of consultation, it could be that someone had thought some thoughts that had not been thought about in here and that is also a problem for the people's regime. For the people's regime means, among other things, taking the time and allowing people outside Christiansborg and outside the ministries to come with the kick-in. In addition, we have two main anchors, you might say, in relation to the content of the bill, and one point is about legal certainty for travellers. I find it very, very unfortunate that it is casual DSB employees or Scanline employees who have to check travellers' passports and visas, and the staff themselves say that they are not trained in it and that they do not have the conditions for it. The second point is that it is an unfair situation to place these employees in and, as they also say, they do not have the prerequisites, and they are concerned about their safety, etc. In fact, I find it rather incomprehensible that we should be rushing through without engaging in a factual dialogue with the transport companies and with the employees. I would also like to make a few comments on it, as I see it, to see rather inadequate cooperation with the German authorities, which I think the Minister has provided in this context. About 2:00 a.m. 23.30 last night, the Folketing received a number of written answers, and in one of them, namely in reply no. 46, the Minister writes that on 4 December the Minister had a meeting with the German Minister for the Interior, and that was the same day as this bill on carrier liability was put forward. Nevertheless, the Minister did not discuss the proposal on carrier liability with the German Minister. So we simply did not use the opportunity to talk about the otherwise quite obvious logistical challenges, in other words how this is to be done in practice, when on the one hand we have a German police who say that they cannot have Danish DSB employees who check passports on German platforms, and on the other hand we have a DSB who says that they do not want passport controls inside their trains. It is strange, then, that the Minister did not use the meeting on 4 December with the Minister for the Interior from Germany to discuss this issue here, and it was even on the same day as this bill was put forward. In the past, the Minister replied to a question about the meeting on 4 December. 11 and the reply states that the Minister discussed the Swedish proposal on ID control and the possible consequences for the Danish-German border cooperation with the German Minister. The bill we are discussing today is probably one of the immediate consequences of the Swedish ID control, but in the reply that came late last night, the Minister then writes that the Minister at the meeting with the German Minister for the Interior did not discuss this bill that we are discussing today. I would say that in view of the major consequences which this particular bill will have for Danish-German cooperation, I think it would have been appropriate to discuss it with the German Minister. One is left with the impression that the government has deliberately failed to make contacts with the German governments in Berlin and in Kiel, which could have been good neighbourly. Instead, we must also understand that these answers had to be made by the Schleswig-Holstein Minister for Justice Anke Spoorendonk himself on Wednesday evening to call the Danish Foreign Minister to get and present the Schleswig-Holstein Government's criticism of the bill, and I know this from the answer to Question No. 42. I think this is a strange way of dealing with your neighbours, and I wonder why you seem so indifferent to the fact that you are now adopting a legislative proposal which you simply do not know how to implement. In fact, it can be said that the obvious lack of contact with the German authorities is in many ways a major problem in this government's approach to the refugee issue, namely that it is impossible to see how necessary it is to cooperate with other countries and how necessary it is to take advantage of the Community. Because, of course, we cannot each in Europe deal with this crisis, of course we need to cooperate, and of course we also need to cooperate with the Germans. But, as I said, the unitary list is voting against. We see severe legal problems for travellers, we see severe problems for transport companies' employees, and we are deeply puzzled by the lack of respect for the people's regime, which I think this urgent procedure is an expression of. I therefore believe that the most recent answers that have been given also indicate that we have been rather indifferent to our German neighbours and have not made any effort to try to get good cooperation going.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211100757	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next person who has asked to speak as rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. I would like to ask people in the Chamber to be a little quieter. You can always have conversations in the sidelines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211100826	Thank you for the floor. I have also asked for the floor because I would like to regret that we have to deal urgently with this bill. We have also said this during the first and second readings. I still find it difficult to understand that we cannot get support for the audit note that we have indicated that we can revise the law in three months' time. I find this disgraceful when it comes to the fact that this law has such far-reaching consequences for the employees who are about to check passports and visas from people who want to enter Denmark. I find it very problematic that there are still so many unanswered questions as to what it is like for these carriers to check. There are still questions about how we get these employees taught, how the carriers are taught their employees how to know the difference between a false visa and a valid visa. I think it is problematic, as we have already heard from the speaker from the last rapporteur on the German authorities, where we know that the German authorities will not accept that Danish carriers stand on German soil and control, which means that we can see some situations for us. I do not find that difficult to imagine where people enter the trains, and that is when the Danish carriers have to check. Then there will be a situation where there is uncertainty or where you can see that a person does not have a visa. How and how do we get this person out of the train? Can the German authorities help with this? I think it is regrettable that we are rushing to legislate in this way, and I think it is regrettable that we think it is necessary at all that this should be done in this way. Then I also continue to think that there is a lack of answers to the situation that we really cannot receive refugees who do not have a visa. We can do that if they enter Denmark illegally, and I still think there are no answers to how the Danish authorities intend to deal with it in relation to refugees who, in other words, have the right to enter Denmark, but will be rejected at the border. In other words, they have to enter Denmark illegally. How will the authorities deal with this issue? I think there are too many unresolved issues and therefore the alternative cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101113	There is one person who has asked for brief comments, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101119	Thank you so much. I asked some questions about yesterday's alternative, which could not be answered, and I hope I can get an answer today. When the alternative rapporteur talks about asylum seekers being rejected at the border, that is wrong, because they cannot. But asylum seekers can be rejected before and if the alternative thinks it is a problem, I have to repeat my question from the second reading: will the alternative then lift the visa requirement for asylum seekers coming from a non-Schengen country to a Schengen country by plane?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101156	Thank you. As I think I answered yesterday, there is a problem with this legislation, namely that you have to reject people. You cannot be allowed to reject them on German grounds, they must enter the Danish train in reality, and thus you have a situation where you have to, what to say, let them out of the trains again, and so I still see that as a problem. Then I can hear what the rapporteur of the Left is asking, and there we are more open than the Left is, yes, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101228	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101229	So, just to find out what it is, Mrs Josephine Fock says: does that mean that the alternative means that the rules we have today on carrier liability when transporting other nationals from a non-Schengen country to a Schengen country should be abolished? It can be answered with a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101257	At least I think they should be reviewed so it is not a yes or a no. But we need to look at how we deal with the whole refugee situation we have in Europe. That is what the alternative has been calling for all along, namely that we think there should be common solutions for. We do not think that this type of legislation does not work either if we get temporary border controls helping, when we want to shift responsibility from us, when it comes to pushing the problem away from us, when it comes to allowing other countries to take on these tasks. I mean, I see a situation where we're really going down to the bottom as fast as possible, right? And that means that it will be the external Schengen borders that will have to be maintained here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101344	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left. I should like to point out to the ministers that we can pull out in the sidelines and talk so that we can hear what is being said here from the platform. I give the floor to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101403	Thank you. Now that we are about to vote on implementing another urgent legislation at a time when our diplomatic relations with our neighbours, with Sweden and Germany seem to be getting worse and worse. The dialogue is completely absent, and the questions from the affected, the operators, which this bill is about, ferries, trains, buses, hauliers, all the employees, continue to fall in. The answer from the government and the support parties is that they have to deal with this on their own. This is not legislation where we decide how things are to be done. No, no, it's just a practical task that the operators themselves have to handle. In practice, they are asked to commit illegal acts, either in Sweden, in Germany or in Denmark, but they also have to solve the practical problem themselves. So the majority is now implementing urgent legislation that no one in the majority can explain how to work. In the Radical Left, we also take very seriously the situation in which Denmark and Europe are in. That is why we proposed a review clause for this bill, so that the law could actually come into force, but that at the same time we could have a proper legislative process where operators could be consulted and where, as they have chosen to do in Sweden, we have a proper dialogue with those who will be affected, and with the words of the Swedish Minister, we ensure that we have clear rules. It would have been incredibly nice if it were also the ambition in Denmark. We were prepared to vote in favour if we had had a review clause of three months so that we could have done it properly, but the Minister and the majority would not have done so either. It is really, really a pity that we have to implement legislation that we do not know the consequences of which no one can explain how to work and where we wipe out the responsibility completely of the people who are in the situations, the operators who now have to carry out tasks they have never tried before and which they do not have an idea of how to carry out when it should actually be a responsibility of the authorities. So we are voting against.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101650	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short remarks, and no one else has asked for the floor for the debate, and that is why we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101712	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. You don't have to run, we're gonna make it all. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 77 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101800	I think we are just giving the Members of Parliament the opportunity to leave the Chamber in good order, so we have the opportunity to move on to the next point. The debate is open. The first to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen. I would ask Parliament to be quiet again so that we can hear the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101849	All I have to say on behalf of the Social Democratic Party is that we take note of the Ombudsman's report and that we support it. Then I would like to add that we note that the Children's Office is finding its framework, and we would like to emphasise that we in the Social Democratic Party are very positive about the developments that the Children's Office has had in recent years. That was right when we created it in its time, and there is a need for the Children's Office, and therefore we look forward to following it forward. In those words, we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101933	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211101941	Thank you. I can also support, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the recommendation to take note of the Ombudsman's report for 2014. It is, of course, an exciting work that has been put before us, and in particular I would like to sign up for the fine section that is, in relation to the ministerial service rule, which I think is very interesting, which may lead to some other work at a later stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102011	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102018	I, too, can confirm that the Left supports the recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102024	Short and cash. Thank you. The next speaker is not Mrs Pernille Skipper, but Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102036	We were actually of the opinion that the Ombudsman's report was being dealt with by the fact that only the rapporteur of the largest party made a comment, but I would like to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that we also take note of the Ombudsman's report.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102052	Thank you. Does anyone from the Liberal Alliance want to speak? Yes, there is. Sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102107	We had the same impression as the Enhedslisten, but we also take note of the Ombudsman's report.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102113	Thank you. Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102119	The alternative would also like to take note of the Ombudsman's report, and now that I have the floor, I would like to say that I thought it was a very, very good hearing that was held on the Ombudsman's report, where it was clarified, and I was very pleased about that. So the alternative backs up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102134	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102140	Thank you for the floor. I know that we do not usually take the floor here, but the Ombudsman's report and the Ombudsman's institution are a very important institution. I think it's important. There seems to have been a wind of it at these times, and so I would like to say that I think it is both an excellent report and a very good piece of work. I am very pleased that we have an ombudsman institution in Denmark. Not only do we take note of that, but we also take note of it in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102211	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Jonas Dahl from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102217	I should also like to say that we take note of it from the SF, with the excuse that I have not read the report, but our rapporteur does. I understand that we fully agree with what other parties have also said.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102230	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102239	We are not going to put an end to this agreement. We can also support the recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102244	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just need to make sure, for the sake of good order, that the Minister does not wish to speak. Yeah, that's correct. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. I should like to ask whether there is a request for referral to committee. This does not seem to be the case and, as this is not the case, the proposal goes straight to the second and final reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102319	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur in the rapporteur's series is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102401	The draft law that we are going to work on here today, which is called L 73, is about making a great deal of adjustments to the Health Act in order simply to promote the implementation of the law in everyday life and to provide clear and unambiguous means of administration, whether here at Christiansborg, in the regions or in the municipalities. In fact, parts of this bill have been first dealt with in the past, but it was set aside because of the parliamentary elections, which is why it is now being re-examined. There have also been some additional elements, and I just want to review them quickly. Before I do so, I would like to say that the Socialists support this bill. The first element is that the regions are given the opportunity to delegate competences in connection with the conclusion of contracts with private hospitals and clinics. The second is that detailed rules will be laid down for ambulance crews, equipment and interior fittings, regardless of whether ambulances are required to operate under public or private conditions. The third is that local authorities are given the opportunity to provide transport services to patients to their own doctor or to medical practitioners as an alternative to the possibility of travelling allowances that they currently have. The fourth element is that the regions are given the opportunity to provide patient participation committees with diets and other allowances for lost earnings. The fifth and penultimate element is that regions and municipalities can set up and lease premises in health houses to a wider stakeholder group than the law allows today. The last element is that the Board for Patient Safety can lay down rules for hospitals, clinics, practices and other elements of the health service, in relation to the fact that the Board has given instructions, and here you can now say how these instructions are to be advertised and shown to the public in the future. This is a bill of amendment that makes real sense. It provides clear guidelines and clear procedures for making the law and the many legal complexes work in everyday life in municipalities and regions. That is why the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102634	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102645	It is really nice that the first rapporteur has listed everything, because then I do not have to do it. Because it is six different proposals that make us more transparent, that we have greater patient safety, and that is why the Danish People's Party also supports the proposal. I would say that what has probably filled the most in this bill is whether private ambulance companies carrying out rescue duties around major events should have the same training as other ambulance services • those in the cart and the same equipment inside the cart. It was a case in which, unfortunately, someone could not be helped by the ambulance company who was present at a certain event, which made it possible to see that there was a law that needed to be changed a little. And that is why we are very pleased that this is something that is being put in place. It has to be so that when you see an ambulance that looks like an ambulance, you also have to be sure that they can do the first aid and the lifesaving that is needed. We support 100% of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102804	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211102820	Thank you for the floor. After all, today we are discussing the law on amending the Health Act. The draft law is partly a resubmission of an earlier draft law, namely L 127, which was not finalised due to the elections this summer. The re-submission concerns a clarification of the regions' ability to delegate the powers to Danish Regions to conclude agreements with private hospitals and clinics. The draft law paves the way for a secure legal basis, and this is absolutely necessary, because the Ombudsman has cast doubt on the accuracy of the current rules. The referral also concerns the authorisation of the National Health Service to lay down rules on injunctions to public or private hospitals to publish an injunction on e.g.: the website of the processing site, and the re-submission also specifies the possibilities for the municipalities to provide transport services to e.g.: own doctor or specialist as an alternative to travel allowance. But there are also three new initiatives in the legislative proposal. There will be a new bill for private ambulance services. It is often seen at major sports events and concerts that the organisers make arrangements with private ambulance companies for presence during the event. And it is both sensible and commendable that we should be concerned about the participants. Unfortunately, we have experienced a tragic incident in which a private ambulance company, which was not part of the region's pre-hospital preparedness, far from meeting expected professional standards, had fatal consequences. False security is no security. We are now being tightened up so that in future the same requirements will be imposed on the equipment, manning and fitting-out of the private ambulance companies, which are not part of the pre-hospital preparedness of the regions, as are the public ambulances. You need to be able to feel safe when health professionals provide services, whether it is a private player acting on his own or an actor forming part of a regional preparedness. Yesterday we had a question debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly, where the focal point was medical coverage throughout Denmark. One of the challenges that we discussed is that it may be difficult for municipalities and regions to rent premises to practitioners in the health houses that have been established. As you know, the government has concluded an economic agreement with Danske Regions, and part of the agreement is based on a common ambition that the practitioners should work more closely with other practice groups, hospital functions and municipal health services. And here are larger medical and health houses one of the cornerstones. For this reason, the group of people who can move into health homes is also extended to be, for example, health centres. ergotherapists, clinical dental technicians, masseurs or other professional groups associated with health care, but not necessarily having an agreement. Such an initiative, together with other initiatives, should ensure that medical coverage is also available throughout the country in future Denmark. Last but not least, the regions are now being given the opportunity to pay allowances and compensation for documented loss of earnings at meetings of the patient consultation committees. On the left side, we can fully support the bill as presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103140	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103148	Thank you. I don't think I can do it that far. Last time we dealt with three of these six proposals, the then Health rapporteur on the Left, who is now the Minister for Health, said that it is always exciting to see what the Minister is making up when you choose to take six completely different things and put them into a bill. And I can see that the Minister has learned the discipline, and that is something with clearer rules in our health care. That's quite fine, too. It is quite true that these are six completely different amendments to the Health Act. For many, we consider them to be quite obvious and reasonable. That's why I just have to tell you that we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103237	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103258	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal. As has already been shown, there are six points in the proposal. I'll only go into the biggest of them. On paragraph 2 on ambulances: we think it is reasonable and reasonable that private ambulances should meet the standards of public ambulances. Citizens do not distinguish between private and public ambulances, but expect an ambulance to be an ambulance and to comply with common standards. For the Liberal Alliance, it is important that private and public actors have a level playing field, such as accreditation, control, publication, transparency and terms given in invitations to tender, etc. We note that consultation answers have been taken into account and that a transitional provision will be introduced. On paragraph 3 on transport arrangements: I think it is good that the municipalities can provide transport services instead of transport allowances. However, care should be taken to ensure that the cheapest system is always chosen and that patients do not have to be driven longer than is considered reasonable. Many outpatient cancer patients have great pain and difficulty sitting up, for these patients can be a major challenge with even the fastest and shortest transport back and forth to the hospital. This should be taken into account if transport is offered instead of transport allowances. On paragraph 5 on the rental of premises in health houses to a wider circle of people associated with health care: that makes a great deal of sense. This allows citizens to be better served, as several specialties are collected in the same house, and it can be more attractive for health professionals in outlying areas if a professional team is assembled under the same roof. Last but not least, the municipality can get an income instead of having empty rooms. I do not think I need to go into the other points. We support the whole proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103500	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier of the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103508	Thank you. In the alternative, we also support this bill. I do not want to go into all the points in detail either, but I would like to mention a few elements which I think are important to highlight. In relation to the proposal on the transport system, we are in favour of allowing municipalities to decide for themselves whether to pay transport subsidies or to provide transport services. However, a little in contrast to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, who thought that it should be the cheapest solution one chooses, we take up Danske Patienter's hearing answer, where in this way they point out that it would be optimal if it were left to the patients themselves to choose whether it should be one or the other solution. Indeed, we very much agree that patients have very individual needs. Some can promote themselves and prefer it, and others prefer to be promoted. So we would like to call for consideration to be given to making it possible for patients to choose for themselves. When it comes to allowing allowances to be paid in connection with the involvement of citizens and organisations of interest, I would just like to acknowledge a great deal for it, because if there is something that we support in the alternative, then it is that people are involved in health care and in making decisions in health care. So it is a really fine step in the right direction that you can actually get the allowances for it. The proposal to increase the possibility of renting out premises in the health houses also supports yes, I have said that we support it all but we would have liked the Minister to have been quite brave, it might be said, to also include complementary practitioners, also known as alternative practitioners, as some of those who can rent themselves into the health houses. When I say that, it is because we know that more than half of the Danes have actually frequented alternative treatment. It is very, very widespread, and it would be a really nice signal to send to all the Danes who make use of alternative treatment, that in fact one who treats is also able to rent oneself into these health houses. It could also send a good signal to the health world about a fine balance between the traditional system and the alternative system. So we would like to encourage that. I think that was the only comment I made overall. We support the draft law and very much recognise the elements in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103738	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103746	This is a bunch of proposals which the rapporteurs before me have presented so well, so I do not think there is any reason to repeat it. But I really feel a bit like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur who said that it is quite obvious to do these things. Moreover, several of the elements are also the re-submission of a draft law by the SR government. So I just have to tell you that the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103813	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103818	Thank you. As several have said, it is a re-submission or large part of the proposal is a re-submission of a proposal from an earlier session, where SF also supported it. We are still doing this despite the marginal changes that have taken place, and that is why I do not think we should tire each other out with too much debate. Against this background, I can only say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103840	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211103850	Thank you. I am the deputy rapporteur for Mette Abildgaard today, and I would also like to say that we support the draft law, which is, after all, an adjustment of a wide range of different elements of the Health Act, and we support them all. I am not going to repeat much, but one small point: it may be that the draft law lays down the legal framework for the staffing of ambulances, equipment and facilities and rules for the training of ambulances. It is, of course, as I understand it, a direct consequence of an accident at Charlottenlund Travbane, where a private ambulance company ended up receiving some criticism from the Health Service for a lack of effort which had tragic consequences. We think it is important that there is confidence in ambulances and ambulance rescuers and that there is a high quality of the work they are doing. It was just one element, but, as I said, we think it contains a large number of positive elements, and we thank you for the legislative proposal, which we look forward to voting through.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211104000	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211104017	I would also like to thank you for your comments and for the debate, although it has been relatively brief. But it is also gratifying to note in a short time that there is very, very broad support in the Danish Parliament for the bill. I am also pleased that Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur has noted that we have made an effort to find common denominators for these various elements of the bill. For it is no secret that part of this is a resubmission of elements from an earlier proposal, as well as a number of additional sub-elements in which the common quantity may seem difficult to find. Nevertheless, these are some important changes that we hope will now be able to make. And, overall, it is also my expectation that we will have better opportunities to give citizens and authorities the opportunity to navigate in health care. But thank you for a good debate and good input. I shall, of course, make myself available if any questions arise during the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211104125	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211104144	The debate is open. I shall begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly, who will fairly be able to find the next team of papers. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211104214	Thank you again for the floor. Now we move on to a slightly different theme. And now that we are discussing the legalisation of medical cannabis here today, I am also sure that we all, regardless of how we might look at ordinary cannabis, hopefully do so on the premise that patients want the best. I also believe that we all take seriously patients' reports of positive effects on medical cannabis, and it is my clear starting point that if the medical use of cannabis meets the requirements, which we also place on medicines in Denmark, then it should not be rejected just because it is cannabis. Conversely, it is, of course, also important and a very central and fundamental principle of our health care that there must be sufficient scientific evidence on the efficacy, safety and quality of a given product if it is to be used medically. At any rate, there were a number of rapporteurs who put great emphasis on this in the debate we had yesterday on another matter, and it is to be hoped that that view will also apply today. The ambition for our health services must and must be that patients are sure that they have access to safe and secure treatment of high professional quality. In other words, the government's starting point is pragmatic and with a focus on patients' safety. As you know, the concept of medical cannabis can be understood in two ways. Firstly, where ordinary or raw cannabis in the form of e.g. dried plant material from the cannabis plant is used for medical purposes. Secondly, where authorised medicinal products containing active substances from cannabis are used for medical purposes. The latter, i.e. all authorised medicines containing active substances from cannabis, are actually available today. It is medicinal products containing cannabis that have been tested in clinical trials and where there is the necessary scientific evidence that the medicinal products are safe, effective and that there is evidence that the quality is in order. In addition, under certain conditions doctors in Denmark are able to prescribe so-called magistral drugs. This allows the pharmacist to manufacture medicinal products containing active substances from cannabis. Whether that opportunity has been used is well enough, I am quite open to looking at, because here we are dealing with a setup where there is a framework for patients' safety and for safe treatment. The latter is absolutely crucial for the government. However, when it comes to common raw cannabis, according to the Danish Medicines Agency, there is very little scientific evidence of positive effects in relation to the treatment of a given disease in people who use common cannabis. And what is at least equally important: We lack the necessary knowledge about the quality, safety and efficacy of the products, as well as knowledge about dosage and side effects of the products. These are all demands that we in the Folketing always say we have to make. This is what we need to do to ensure that patients receive good and safe treatment. So what the alternative is proposing today significantly lowers the bar for patients' safety. The Agency cannot therefore recommend the introduction of such a system as is envisaged in the motion for a resolution. And I have to admit that it is not quite clear to me what kind of arrangement it is, it is actually the alternative. The motion for a resolution is certainly not very specific, and I also understand that the alternative would now like to table amendments to its own motion for a resolution, and so we must understand that today we are dealing first with a motion for a resolution which even the authors themselves do not think is quite equal. Well, at least we have something in common. Another thing that is not quite clear to me is how the alternative will finance the proposal. One might wonder at this point why a party which otherwise prides itself on wanting to give priority does not indicate funding. In this respect, the alternative could, of course, take the lead and propose in concrete terms where we need to save, because regardless of how a system might be combined, it is also a fact that it will cost a great deal. There are both start-up and operating costs, and depending on the solutions chosen, it may be two-digit millions for the establishment and operation, which may potentially amount to up to 7 million. kr. In any case, legalization must require that a setup be worked on for example. ordination, distribution, dispensation, monitoring of doctor's prescription, adverse reactions reports, data registers, etc. The cost does not include the cost of the products themselves. And if you want to spend public money on cannabis subsidies, of course it will be expensive. Here, too, it may be two - digit millions, depending on the number of people to be treated. With the financial law that has just been concluded, we in the government have given priority to a number of areas which we consider to be very important. That is, for example, the case. the elderly medical patient, hospital overcrowding, cancer patients, to name but a few examples. And I note that in the Financial Law negotiations no one proposed or wanted to prioritise medical cannabis. So I also think that all of you who support the proposal must tell us how to find the money. Apparently, it did not seem to be important a short time ago. However, regardless of what the alternative really means by the proposal, and regardless of what the proposal actually costs, I think that we in this Chamber should focus on safeguarding patients' safety and listening to professionalism. That is what everyone in the Parliamentary Chamber yesterday put so much emphasis on and said was so important. It will be interesting to see whether that view is also valid today. It is not only the Danish Medicines Agency which cannot recommend a special scheme such as that proposed in the motion for a resolution. I note that the Medical Association expresses a very clear professional concern. The Medical Association has written to all the Danish Parliament's health rapporteurs and to me as a minister, and it is not every day that the Medical Association finds occasion for it in this way. They have written to us:..." The Medical Association does not temporarily consider that there is a medical basis for establishing a separate system for the prescription of so-called medical cannabis. The Medical Association will therefore encourage the Folketing to refrain from adopting the motion for a resolution in its present form. I do not even remember when I last received a letter from the Medical Association stating that they directly recommend the parties of the Danish Parliament to refrain from adopting a resolution in its present form. The professional advice given to us politicians is thus clear: the current proposal of the alternative cannot be recommended. Therefore, I think it is not only inappropriate, but also questionable, if the Danish Parliament opposes such clear recommendations and decides that there are some patient groups who and in what way we do not know which cannabis is to be offered. What we offer Danish patients in Denmark should always be based on a thorough health professional assessment, so that we ensure that health care is provided at all times with high quality and with a high degree of safety. If, as in this case, there is no such medical basis, it is in fact similar to a general legalisation of ordinary cannabis, at least in part. There are many good reasons why we in Denmark have a general ban on cannabis. In the case of cannabis abuse, there is evidence of adverse effects. This concerns, among other things: on psychotic reactions, impairment of learning ability and increased risk of inter alia: mental illness. If there is any new and more scientific evidence in this area, I believe, of course, that patients should benefit from the latest knowledge as soon as possible. It is our responsibility and our duty as politicians to ensure this, but it is also our responsibility to ensure that, for the things we offer patients in a publicly funded Danish healthcare system, we have made demands on efficacy, safety and quality. The proposers themselves mention in the resolution that the active substance in cannabis can, for example, relieve muscle cramps in sclerosis, nausea in cancer patients and stimulate the appetite of AIDS patients. According to the Danish Medicines Agency, we have had this knowledge for a long time, and this knowledge has also led to the authorisation of several medicines. I can only call for more research to be done in this area, and I can assure you that we will follow professional development closely from a central point of view. However, as long as we do not have the necessary knowledge of the products, it is therefore essential, for the sake of patients, that we follow the clear recommendation not to introduce some special scheme, which we must therefore understand cannot even support in its present form. It is well to note a special scheme in which neither the doctor nor the patient has the assurance that a given product is safe, effective or manufactured under safe conditions. Against this background, the government cannot support the alternative resolution. On the other hand, we are completely open to discussing increased research on the efficacy, safety and side effects of medical cannabis. We are also quite open to looking at whether the possibilities have been exploited well enough in relation to magistral drugs with active substances from cannabis. What matters to us is patient safety. I hope that today we can all agree on that, too, is what we keep in mind when we are going to continue working on this proposal and which I can understand the parliamentary parties yesterday were touchingly agreed on is absolutely crucial. I hope it is today too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105344	Thank you, Minister. Two have asked for brief comments. The first is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105350	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I am glad that the Minister mentions yesterday's debate, because if we look back, we can at least also remember if we want to be more parties that mentioned how important it is to involve patients in relation to the health priorities we take. That is also the reason for this motion for a resolution. The minister mentioned patient safety several times. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: what is the greatest danger to patients: that they go to the black market and buy illegal drugs, which we do not know what they are in, how clean they are, how many pesticides and heavy metals are in, what concentration of cannabis there is in, or that patients can go to a doctor or to a pain centre and get cannabis that is quality-adjusted, where we know what concentration is and where there is no danger of there being all sorts of other means in than what you are buying?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105506	What is crucial to me is that we ensure that patients have access to high-quality active medicinal products and to adequate information on medicinal products. I think it would be important at any time that the patient should not go to the black market, as the questioner says, but there are a number of authorised medicines with active substances from cannabis today. It is medicinal products that have been tested in clinical trials where there is scientific evidence of efficacy, safety and quality. These are the ones I think patients should have access to so much. They do today, but that is not what the alternative is proposing with this motion for a resolution. I also believe that this is the reason why the Medical Association has found the opportunity to send the letter they have made, which clearly advises against all parties in the Folketing to vote in favour of the alternative's proposal, which I also notice that you want to change because you do not quite think that the first one had been put forward was quite good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105607	Mrs. Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105609	If you read the Jyllands-Posten this morning, you will see that Tina Horsted, head of the National Hospital's Interdisciplinary Pain Center, says that the medicines that we have on the market today • which I completely agree with we have; we have among other things. Sativex and Marinol do not meet the needs because they do not have enough cannabinoids in a composition to meet the needs of e.g. The pain patients. So we have a challenge with regard to the two preparations. The same doctor, Tina Horsted, told us this morning at News that she is very soon publishing a scientific study in which 33 different clinical trials have been studied and found that 16 of them show a significant positive effect. Does the Minister deny that research, or does the Minister agree with me, that in this research we are at least also taking care of patient safety?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105709	I don't deny research at all. On the contrary, I stand here today and say in my speech that I would like more research. I am also saying that I am quite open to looking at whether we should look at the existing options for magistral medicinal products in relation to medicinal products with the active substance from cannabis. That's what I'm reaching out to. What is proposed from the alternative is completely different. This has nothing to do with what the proposers are asking me now, and that is why I say yes to more research. I say yes to the fact that there are committed researchers in the Rigshospitalet who are actively working on this for the benefit of patients. But I also say no to the fact that we are embarking on some experiment in which we do not have safety, quality, knowledge of the effects of what we have to give to patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105759	There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105803	Thank you. I would like to know a little more about what the Minister is going to do so specifically to gain more knowledge, because that is a fine indication, but it is very little concrete. There are some very interesting reports from the hospital's pain clinic. I have also read the Jyllands-Posten today and note that the chief physician says that her experience is that patients tell very widely that they have much better effects of the drugs they can then only get on the illegal market today, i.e. these Dutch drugs and cannabis oils, by the way, than they have of the two approved medicines. So what does the Minister suggest we do to gain more knowledge so that we can go a little further and achieve a goal of getting some medicines that are more effective than those we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211105854	It is quite true that there are a number of interesting things going on in different places, among others. In the Rigshospitalet. The Danish Medicines Agency has also informed me that the company that is currently producing the cannabis medicine Sativex is also engaged in several clinical trials on the medicine in several European countries with humans, where pain coverage in cancer patients with Sativex is being investigated, probably with a view to extending the indication of the medicine. I think it's interesting what's going on at Rigshospitalet. It would then also be politically desirable for there to be even more going on at times. There were, among other things, I think it was last year, set aside money under the research reserve for research into medical cannabis. I knew no one was looking for them. That is why it is perhaps also a question of us having a political debate about the fact that, if we want to become wiser and know more in this area with the aim of patient safety in mind, we also sit on the table and discuss how we could do it, instead of saying that we are just getting on a train where we know neither the direction nor the route of what we need to start offering patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110004	Mrs Brix to the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110006	I regard this as an invitation, which I would at least like to accept, to discuss how we can move forward. It is quite true that Parliament's parties agreed to open up research into medical cannabis in connection with the research reserve for 2015 and that no applications were made. I can inform the Minister that we in the committee asked the researchers of the Rigshospitalet about this. You had not heard of that possibility at all, and it is deeply regrettable that there are researchers who had even more projects and could also report on colleagues who had medical cannabis projects, but no one had been told that that possibility existed. Now you are faced with having to find some money for the research projects you are currently doing, and it could be a place to start that we in the parties of the Folketing got together and found a way to provide a basis for funding for that research.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110100	I agree with a number of the points made by the rapporteur here. I know that the Innovation Fund opened the funds in February 2015, i.e. the funds from the research reserve, the 35 million. DKK, which has been allocated, among other things. for research into the use of medical cannabis. I would have liked to see even more medical experiments started on the effects of cannabis for medical purposes, because this is the way we can ensure that the necessary scientific evidence is provided that cannabis may act as a treatment for people with a given disease. So a clear 'yes' to what, as I said in my speech, is called 'yes' to more research, to become wiser in this area. And that is one of the things that I also think is relevant for the parties to continue to discuss, rather than, as I said, simply blindfolding themselves by giving patients something, while we completely deviate from all other fundamental principles of our health care in terms of quality, safety and efficacy requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110201	There are four more who have asked for brief comments. First, Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110207	Thank you. In the Minister's speech, the Minister came up with a scare picture which has also made this debate in recent years a debate about: is this free hash, or is it called medical cannabis? The minister says that if we legalize medical cannabis, it's the same as saying that we legalize cannabis. So I would like to hear from the Minister: at some point we did it legally to get prescribed heroin, but has it been the case today that heroin can be released on the streets?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110240	Now I think it is the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party who is contributing to scare pictures. I said in my speech that medical cannabis can be understood in two ways. One part is the raw cannabis in the form of dried plant material, and the other is the one where it is authorised drugs containing active substances from cannabis used for medical purposes. There are a number of medicines authorised in Denmark that are used in our healthcare system, where I think it should be possible to discuss whether there is also sufficient knowledge of the medicines authorised in relation to those doctors who may have to prescribe them to their patients. I would very much like to discuss these things. But medical cannabis can be understood in the two ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110321	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110323	Now it is at least the case that we have an incredible number of medicines. I can just mention benzodiazepines which are addictive, where we have a pharmaceutical industry that actually makes people addicted to medicines. So what we're talking about is medical cannabis for some of the sickest people. The Minister also mentioned that there is no research, and I am a little puzzled about it, because it is very easy to see when you break up that there is some scientific evidence that cannabis can be soothing, appetite stimulating and painkillers. There are German studies showing that it reduces the spasms and muscle conditions of sclerosis patients. Is that something where you just say there's nothing? We've been discussing this for many years. We did the same with medically prescribed heroin, and yet we came to the realization that this was something that could benefit some people. Is it not at all something the Minister is thinking about when he goes into such a proposal here and looks at how we can do better for those patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110421	I know that there are no approved medicines in Denmark that do not meet the requirements we make of medicines in Denmark in relation to the safety of documentation and quality. After all, there is a clear reason for this: patient safety. The fact that we do not have to approve medicinal products in Denmark, where we do not have the necessary documentation on the effects of these medicines, is the clear starting point and has been that since we were given the pharmaceutical law in Denmark, I think it was in 1975. That is why I also say that when it comes to areas where we lack knowledge, where we want more knowledge, we have to go the way of research, and we also have to go, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. These are some of the things that I would very much like to invite to discuss with the Danish Parliament's parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110512	Mrs. Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110521	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your speech. There is something I find a little difficult to understand in the Minister's arguments. After all, the Minister seems to imagine that the alternative is now opening up completely to the black market. That is not the point of the alternative proposal, and I think the Minister is also aware of that. What we are just opening up to is all the data we have from patients who are actually going on the black market today. I am sure that the Minister has received as many e-mails as we have received since this motion for a resolution has been tabled, from patients who are just saying to us: how glad we are that you are presenting this motion for a resolution, because it is a relief and because we can feel that it is doing us good to have this treatment and because we can feel that we do not have spasms. There are all kinds of patients who write and say this is an advantage. I find it incredibly difficult to understand that the Minister will then not be able to legalise it by a three-year trial, in which we will then have exactly examined and verified that patient safety comes into focus, and so we will have legalised the treatment that very many of these patients are receiving illegally today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110634	I think we all take seriously the patient's report of positive effects on medical cannabis. And what is the alternative proposing? It is, of course, precisely in this area that we must ignore what we do in all other areas when we talk about patients' safety: we need the necessary knowledge about the quality, safety and efficacy of the products, as well as knowledge about dosages and side effects of the products. In other words, the alternative proposal is that we should reduce the bar for patients' safety considerably. That is also the reason why the Medical Association is calling on the parties of the Danish Parliament not to adopt the motion for a resolution from the Alternative, to which I have noted that even the alternative does not quite support the motion for a resolution that has been tabled because it now wants something else. It also says that there is a need for us to perhaps discuss this a little more thoroughly, rather than embarking on some kind of husa project in which we derogate from all other principles that we usually pay tribute to here in the Parliamentary Assembly in the field of health. I therefore appeal to the parties of the Folketing to sit down and discuss this seriously and not to gamble with the safety of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110754	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110757	But that is exactly what the alternative is calling for. It is that we need a permit that our patients out there, as we know using these drugs illegally today, can do so legally while we have the entire area examined. In fact, I think it would be a really good piece of legislation if we could put it into effect. That's why the Alternative has spent time listening and figuring out how to put this precisely, so we get all these things in. In fact, I think that is what is in this motion for a resolution today, on which I can hear a great many parties supporting it. So I find it hard to understand why the Minister is casting doubt on what is in the motion for a resolution. I think that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110856	It is quite clear to me that it is proposed today that we derogate from all the principles of health that we normally salute across the parties of the Folketing, namely that we make demands on the quality of safety and the impact of the products that are given to patients. I think that is an important principle to stick to. This is the principle that the alternative suggests that we should depart from exactly this area. At the same time, I also appeal to the use of the opportunities that are available today for cannabis, and I do not think this is always very clear in the debate, to give those medicines that have been approved and that contain active substances from cannabis, where we have tested all these things, and where we have a certainty and knowledge of what we are giving to patients. After all, there are a number of those who are approved and can therefore be given to patients in Denmark. I also say at the same time that this is an area where more knowledge and more research are needed, but that is just not what the alternative is proposing. It is proposed to significantly lower the bar for patients' safety in relation to the standards we otherwise have in our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110954	The next brief remark is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211110956	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. Does the Minister not think that it is the involvement of patients to listen to all the patients who buy cannabis every day for self-medication to endure their daily pain? They just have to buy it on the criminal market. Is it not the involvement of patients to listen to them, and is it not for the benefit of patient safety that they should be able to buy these products controlled and based on a knowledge of the content and quality, instead of having to go out and buy the products without really knowing what they contain?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111045	I certainly listen to patients and also to their reports of positive effects when using medical cannabis. I take that very seriously. I also think that this is an area in which we need more research. At the same time, I also note that there are currently a number of authorised medicinal products with active substances from cannabis which meet the requirements of our healthcare system, namely that they have been tested in clinical trials and that there is scientific evidence of efficacy, safety and quality. That is what is crucial to me when it comes to offering patients something in public health care, namely that we have knowledge about the safety, quality and impact of the products, because that is what matters to how much we value patient safety. Is it the same as there's no reason to get smarter in this area and thus listen to the patients? No, it certainly isn't. I think we should do that, and so we should take their reports seriously on a serious health basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111154	May-Britt Kattrup to the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111157	I hear the Minister say that it is important that we listen to patients, but how do you listen to patients if you cut them off from what many have shown they want? After all, it is not us politicians who have to develop the product. It is not our job to produce it, so we are just allowing doctors and pharmacists to determine the content of these products. It is they who ensure quality; it is not because, as politicians, we need to be wise about it. We just have to give them the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111234	We are listening to the patients and, therefore, what they want, namely that we take care to look into it. We do this by going the way of research. The path advocated by the Liberal Alliance is to ask: why do we not let the doctors do it? Why does the Liberal Alliance think that the Medical Association writes to all parties of the Folketing and clearly advises against voting in favour of the motion for a resolution? Well, they do that because they say that it departs from all the fundamental requirements we normally make in the field of health when it comes to our patients in a publicly funded health service. I think you should read that letter from the Medical Association. I am also listening to them, but I am also listening to patients, and that is why we need to learn more about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111315	Sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111318	Thank you. A lot of very sick people are sitting today hoping that things will go really, really well for this proposal. Medical cannabis should have been adopted long ago by the Folketing, because there are so many sick people who no longer want to be criminals because they need their medicine. In Israel, in Finland, in Italy, in Germany, in the Czech Republic and in Canada and in several US states, medical cannabis is offered, so although we may lack evidence in Denmark, there is good experience from other countries. Several people even start producing it themselves. Does the Minister really believe that these countries, which are not banana republics, but countries with which we usually compare ourselves, will continue to offer medical cannabis to their own citizens and compatriots if it did not have an effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111407	It is true that there are some countries around the world, including some states in the United States, where, despite insufficient evidence of the effect, the use of ordinary raw cannabis for medical purposes has been allowed. The experience of these countries has not provided significant new evidence of the effect of common raw cannabis on people, but is it the same as not following the experiences of those countries? No, we follow them closely. That's one of the things the DEA does. A system has also been introduced in some countries, for example: the products from Bedrocan can be prescribed by doctors through permission. This has been done in Finland, for example. The experience of those countries must be used and incorporated, and we must do so on the basis of a premise of scientific evidence, and therefore also on the basis that we put patient safety first. We also need to look at whether we are taking advantage of the opportunities that exist in Denmark, for example. For magistral drugs, well enough, as it is today? It's one of the paths you can go if you want to go on this track on a serious basis because then it happens within a secure framework. That is what I am making myself available to in the Folketing; it is so with an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111525	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111529	The minister says she takes patient reports very seriously. Here in Jyllands-Posten, Friday, December 11th, there is a patient report: that would change everything. I have a six-year-old son who I have to say no to all the time because I'm too tired. My pain is unbearable. That is, for example, the case. A hell of a job getting dressed. At the same time, I know that a single suck of a joint makes the pain go away. It's hard that it makes me a criminal if I just want to feel better, says Carsten Wu Sønderskov. What is the Minister's position on this patient report?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111606	I am, of course, impressed, and that is why, in my speech today, I stress that in Denmark there are a number of authorised medicines containing active substances from cannabis. I have a very pragmatic view of this. I'm not gonna stand here and say, "No, we don't want medical cannabis." That's not what I'm saying at all. All I am saying is that when it comes to patients' safety, I think that the principles that all parties in the Danish Parliament usually pay tribute to and take the lead should also apply in this area, of course, in combination with the fact that we have to go the way of research, in combination with the fact that we have to look at whether we are taking advantage of the opportunities that exist today. That's what I'm open to, but with patient safety in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111649	The last point too short is Mr Beazley's report. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111655	Thank you very much. I would like to come back to this with evidence and ask the Minister if it does not make the impression that there have been several studies at the National Cancer Institute in the United States which actually show evidence in exactly the area of pain-solving effects of THC and CBD in a group of patients who are opium-resistant, and that we therefore also allow this proposal to go further in helping a specific group of patients who cannot be helped by any of the medicines available today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111733	In other words, from the motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative, it is impossible to understand what kind of patients should actually be offered something that I understand they should no longer be offered, but that it is something else that they should be offered, because they want to table an amendment to their own proposal. That's one part of it. As far as the use of evidence is concerned, I would say that this is one of the things we are following very closely. This is one of the things that the Danish Medicines Agency has a great deal of attention to. And what the Danish Medicines Agency says is that there is insufficient scientific evidence of positive effects in relation to the treatment of a given disease in people who use common cannabis. However, as I mentioned earlier, and as I have now said a few times, is this the same as not following the area closely and going the way of research? No, it's not. I'd love to see you do that. I think that is a very important contribution to getting wiser in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111822	Sir. Nikolaj Amstrup to the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111825	Thank you very much. We are very pleased to hear that the Minister will also follow this area closely. Does the Minister not think that the proposal here could be a step on the way to an even greater opportunity to investigate the area, including in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111848	I think this proposal is a step in the wrong direction. And I have to understand somewhere that the proposers of the alternative also think so since they have chosen to say: we would actually like to table some amendments to our own proposal, firstly, we do not quite think; we would like something else anyway. You can't realize what kind of patients this is, so there's so much confusion in this. And, as I said, I do not think it is a joke that the Medical Association writes to all parties of the Folketing and warns directly against voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. It is not because the Medical Association thinks it is a step in the right direction. I guess they also think it is a step in the wrong direction. I am concerned that we are taking a step in the right direction, and it is to me that we put patient safety first and thus go the way of research and always ensure that the opportunities we have today have been exploited well enough and look at them in a constructive discussion between the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111933	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line. The first in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211111946	Thank you for that, President. See, for some years now we have had a very good discussion here at Christiansborg and a careful discussion of medical cannabis. What is absolutely crucial for the Socialists, regardless of what we are discussing in the health debate, is that we want the best treatment for Danish patients. That is why we are working very constructively on this issue too, that we want to help pave the way for even better treatment of patients, including cannabis, if it turns out that this is what is needed. We would really like to support research from the Socialist side and the fact that we are generating new knowledge, that is to say that we are getting further documentation in this area. I would therefore like to begin by saying that I wish we had already received more research in the last few years to support this direction. I also wish that we had already had several approved medicinal products on the market for the benefit of patients. What is crucial for us Social Democrats is that good patient care goes hand in hand with the right and very high patient safety. We attach great importance to the medical arguments, which is why it is important in this context to say that raw cannabis, which is referred to in this context, is not approved anywhere as a medicinal medicine, either in Europe, the United States or other parts of the world. What is it that is needed for something to be approved as a medicinal product? It is that it has been examined very carefully because it is a matter of patients, but also those who have to prescribe the products, having to know what is up and down, what is true, what is evidence and what is not documented. What you have to ensure is that there is a good effect, that the side effects do not overshadow the effect, and that there is also a consistent effect. What we are building on here in Denmark is precisely that the documentation must be available. Therefore, it is quite wrong to start placing some products under the category of medicines when they are not medicines. I understand that the Medical Association has sent a letter to all of us politicians in here at Christiansborg. Because what we are talking about in this resolution is raw cannabis. If you are talking about medical cannabis, there are products on the market that have been approved, which doctors can print and for which some manufacturers are responsible have been thoroughly investigated. Over the past few years, I have received a lot of good inquiries from citizens who tell about their everyday situation, but who also tell about the strange situation they have faced, if they want, for example, cannabis oils picked up and only possible to buy on the black market. One day it's sweet and yellow, the next day it's brown and sour. It is a very good picture of what we cannot accept to put into the group of medicines. So it is both the Danish Medicines Agency and the Medical Association who say that the proposal we are dealing with here is a wrong way to go. On the other hand, I would like to say, and I have said this many times in recent years, that I wish that with the approved products on the market, which are not prescribed to very many patients, we could say to the specialists that they would like to be able to print to those patients who may have the symptoms where they think this could have an effect. I think that is a way to go. I also believe that it is a way to go, as the Minister for Health has also said, to try to work on the magistral products that pharmacists can make. That is why research is also the way to go clinical studies. I am listening a lot to what is happening at Rigshospitalet at the moment, when Chief Doctor Tina Horsted says that GPs are not going to prescribe this. This is a specialist assignment. I listen very much to the fact that they work together to try to get these magical products done and get registration and research done. But what is in the proposal here today is a wrong way to help these patients. They must be helped, and they must be helped by those who have the main competences in this area. That is why we in the Socialist Group do not support the proposal as it stands here, but it is very important for us to have more knowledge, more documentation. We ourselves dropped a lot of money while we were in government. Unfortunately, they have not come out to work for better documentation, but we hope that will happen now, and I also hope that the work of the committee will bring more clarity and clarity between the parties on what we want. Because I too am confused in the same way as the Minister for Health also said: what is the alternative, when a proposal has been tabled, but also intends to table amendments to it here? That is the position of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112545	Thank you. Two have asked for brief comments. First, it's Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112555	Thank you. I think I would like to say that, when I come to the platform, I will explain what our proposal is. Because now more people have asked about it, and I understand the confusion, and I will clear it up. For the moment, I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur something. In fact, I was very pleased that the rapporteur mentioned Tina Horsted and I was also pleased that the rapporteur mentioned the letter from the Medical Association. For Tina Horsted has said that there is a trial at Rigshospitalet, where 30 patients with medical cannabis are treated, and there the Medical Association is said against. Cannabis has what we call a significant effect on pain, and what the Medical Association says that there is no evidence is based on ignorance, for that is where the head doctor at Rigshospitalet Tina Horsted says. Can I ask the rapporteur what he thinks of that quotation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112645	I have now also noticed that the Medical Association says, and I quote from their letter: the Medical Association cannot deny that medical cannabis can have a positive effect on some patients, but notes that this is not adequately supported by clinical research. Quote out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112703	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112706	I would like to turn to another point, because the rapporteur mentioned again, and he mentioned it earlier, that there are already preparations on the Danish market which he believes we should work towards making more accessible. There are two preparations, primarily Sativex, which today can only be printed by specialists in neurology, and Marinol, which consists exclusively of THC, which means that it is actually also a fairly effective drug, and now I am going to quote Tina Horsted again, and it is from Jyllands-Posten this morning, and she says: "Patients who have tried medical cannabis from the illegal market have understood that it is not these two preparations that agree that they work far better than the two medicines we have to supply. Patients sleep better, the pain decreases and they get a higher level of function. We have clear medical indications that we need preparations other than the two on the market. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112759	I would just like to repeat what I said at the outset in my rapporteur's speech, namely that I wish we had more research and I wish we had more approved products on the market. And what I would like to express here is that I would like to have new products for which a producer takes responsibility, that is to say that they have been clinically tested so that patient safety is high, and here I think, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, it is quite fine what they do in the Rigshospitalet. I recognise, and I quote, that they have started a clinical trial out there, where there are also other ingredients in the magistral products they use that they get made in pharmacies here in Denmark, and that we get the knowledge that is needed. And I would say this to the citizens and patients who had to follow the debate here today: please contact the medical specialists in pain care who also have the opportunity to refer to the Rigshospitalet so that they can get you into this. For the magistral production is an option that the Minister has expressed several times in his speech today and therefore, of course, it is also a way to go. For here you get the overall evidence of what effect it might have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112913	Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211112916	In 2007, it was decided that drug users of hard drugs who had drugs on their own should no longer be fined or imprisoned, but that they could receive a warning, that is, a form of decriminalisation. So it was still criminal, but it was a decriminalization. I would like to hear the position of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, i.e. whether you could imagine anything similar to that of those patients who are currently in a situation where, in order to solve their pain problem or their problems with spasms, they are forced to commit something criminal. Could one imagine such decriminalization, in which they could receive a warning rather than a fine or prison sentence for obtaining medical cannabis products?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113016	Thank you. Now, look, we are moving into something that has to do with justice policy, and that is not health policy in itself. I have said here today, and it has been in my opinion as a health rapporteur, that I would very much like to see other and new products on the market, but I have not said anything about the illegal framework in relation to raw cannabis, because it is legislation that lies with our legal rapporteurs and with the Minister for Justice, and so I would just like to say to Mrs Stine Brix that I have no further comments on it. I want patients who have symptoms and who have a disease to receive the best treatment, but it must be a substantiated treatment and it must be a documented treatment. I believe this is a fundamental principle of our entire pharmaceutical administration in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113106	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113110	It is in the law on drugs, which is part of the Ministry of Health's area of responsibility, as far as I am aware, but we can always be further informed about this, and I think it is in our area to discuss this issue. And it is quite true that it is a slightly different element of this discussion. Nevertheless, the situation is just the one today that a very, very large group of citizens in Denmark are criminalised because they, for example, are criminalised. buys medical oils, i.e. cannabis oils, which do not have a euphoric effect, but which relieve their pain. That is the problem that I also think we could address in a way that does not mean that we should fear that the police will come and knock on the door.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113154	Thank you for the question. I was just talking about oils in my rapporteur's speech. Because nobody produces oils beyond the illegal market, and therefore this is a very unfortunate situation. And that is why I also think that if you can look at something about magistrel production of oils in Denmark, you have come a long way. For then it is pharmacists who are behind it, and it is doctors who prescribe something they vouch for they want to prescribe, and we can get it connected to registration, to documentation and to research. It is the Socialists' wish that this should be what will soon become the situation. But that is not what has been proposed with this alternative resolution, I would say to Mrs Stine Brix. This is a matter of how the alternative will have practitioners to be able to print raw cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113245	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113253	Thank you. Both the Minister and the Social Democratic rapporteur have referred to the Medical Association, but the Medical Association has apparently not talked to all its doctors. There are, for example: not sought expert advice from those who actually work with medical cannabis, e.g. Interdisciplinary Pain Center at Rigshospitalet. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113316	I read the press release from the Medical Association so that it is the Medical Association that expresses itself on behalf of the doctors. That's what I'm gonna say. I think it must be the same in any party or other, that is to say there may be differences of opinion. But I have noticed that, as Tina Horsted, head of the pain center at the Reichshospitalet, says, more research and more products are needed. And they say that they really want an increased consumption of cannabis products. But I do not hear that it is said there that they want something that should not be properly documented or that there should be no science behind what they are using. Then it is also essential to say that it is completely in disharmony with what is proposed by the Alternative that it should not be practitioners, but specialists, for example at the pain centres, who must take care of this group of citizens and patients and ensure the right treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113413	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113414	I fully agree with what the Chief Medical Officer has written and said, but it might as well give food for thought that she is reacting to the fact that she has not been asked by the Medical Association. Then perhaps the rapporteur would check with the Medical Association whether the Medical Association is speaking for everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113434	No, as rapporteur, I am not going to ask the Medical Association about that. I read the Medical Association's press release, but it may be that the rapporteur believes that a contract should be concluded and that this should be examined. If the rapporteur really thinks that when the Medical Association has to express itself in a press release, they should have been out asking all Members whether they agree with a statement or not, then I would just say that then I think we will have a lot of extra bureaucracy before anyone can speak on behalf of anyone in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113501	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113507	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur has just appealed and said directly to the sick people who are following this debate on television, and there are many who are doing so, and I can also see that there are many who are doing so on the social media. Now, however, the problem is that there is a two-year waiting period for the pain clinics. What comment does the rapporteur have on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113533	I think that those who are patients and those who have symptoms that it is believed cannabis products can help to remedy should, of course, talk to their practicing doctor. It is the doctor who has certainly tried some things. I can only mourn that our country has a shortage of specialists and that we have waited time, but this is not the same as saying that we should go other ways, nor is it the same as saying that we have to take decisions politically, which can ensure that we do not have a straggle with regard to patient care and patient safety. That must be my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113612	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113616	Yes, but since there is now between 14 months and 2 years of waiting and the rapporteur has just approached those who need it directly here and at least have not come up with any solution to use for them right now, has the rapporteur another, a little better report to the people who are now looking forward to, if it is not adopted here, to have to go into another endless desert migration with pain and life as a criminal?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113645	I have made it very, very clear in my rapporteur's speech that I would very much like there to be other and better treatment options, and I have said that we Social Democrats have a completely firm position that patients should receive the best treatment, and we support it. We did so while we had the power of government, both with money for research and also with openness, in relation to the fact that the products that are what the rapporteur says in this context are, of course, that suddenly here I should be able to stand and solve all the problems of waiting times in our health services. I'm afraid I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113727	The next brief remark is from Mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113731	Thank you very much. I am glad to hear that the Social Democrat rapporteur, like the rest of Parliament, is interested in further research into this. Therefore, I would like to ask whether it would not be advantageous to create a greater knowledge base in relation to medical cannabis, when we know from 10 years of experience in the Netherlands that they have not had and are not actually aware of any of the side effects that are talked about in relation to medical cannabis, so the side effects are only possible at a much higher dose, as far as we understand the experience from the Netherlands. So they haven't had these side effects at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113821	I think that the right way to create knowledge and documentation is to put it into a secure, firm framework so that we can also believe in the results we get from it. Therefore, I think that the clinical trial at Rigshospitalet, for example, is a very good way to step new paths, gain new knowledge and a new documentation. What the alternative has proposed in the motion for a resolution is, I think, a completely reverse way of gaining new knowledge which does not provide this safety framework, which I believe it is necessary to say, for example, that there is science behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113858	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113902	When the latest reports from the Rigshospitalet about the investigations that are going on in there are that there is actually evidence in this area, although it has not been spread out to the doctors yet, does it not make an impression on the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211113922	Yeah, and that's the way I really want them to go. And I think it's nice that we have some specialists, some experts who take up the task. That is exactly what we intended when we were in government, where the Socialists also pressed for 35 million to be set aside. kr. in the research reserve, and where we dedicated them to the fact that we wanted research in this area. So, yes, that is one of the things I nod very much, and I did so in my rapporteur's speech. And I really hope that something really positive and beneficial will come out of it for patients, and I hope that such a pain center will be the place in other places in Denmark, in the regions where these patients can come and get the absolutely best treatment that will remove their symptoms that will relieve their illness. It's my wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211114014	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211114022	I would like to start by thanking the alternative for making this proposal. I think it is nice that we should have a debate on the subject, which I have certainly taken an interest in the last few years in here as a health rapporteur. I have talked to an incredible number of patients and relatives of patients who have used medical cannabis in many ways, whether in oil, in smoking tobacco, in cakes, whatever. There are many different things. I've had producers in my office who have shown me what it was. Actually, I've had some oil too. It doesn't taste good, but it may be good for those who take it. We know that more and more people are resorting to medical cannabis. Precisely when it is that they tell us that they cannot be helped with medication, but that instead they are helped with medical cannabis in one way or another, I think we should be responsive. Today, we see that many people have to go to Christiania and find a drug dealer who is ready to sell, and then they have to try to find out if it is the right drug they have been given. They don't always come home with the right thing. I've been talking to a 50-60-year-old woman with a cancerous man who was lately in need of medical cannabis. It was the only thing that helped. I do not think we, as politicians, can ignore that. Of course, it is always a balance. There are previous speakers who say that we should just listen to what the Danish Health Authority, the Danish Medicines Agency tells us, but I am certainly not pale about going the other way; I think the rapporteurs are aware of that too. Once in a while, when there are a great many citizens, this balance tips, and I think that we should at least take the citizens on board. I am not saying that we should just release a whole lot or that we can say yes to the proposal as it stands. We have talked before today about doing something in this area, and there are many different ways to do it. I would like to highlight one of the things I have learned about medical cannabis, and that is that it is not about it being just a drug. The DEA says it's because it's a drug that you don't recommend it. Then I'd say they haven't done much of their homework. I've learned a lot about THC and CBD. At first I couldn't remember what was what, but I know at least now that THC is what gets you stoned and that's what's euphoric and that you get a rush of it. For many, it is actually the CBD in medical cannabis that is good. In Sativex, which we have here at home, the relationship is one to one. There is no matter what of both things, which is why many people cannot tolerate it because they get stoned by it. In other places a lot of research has been done in the CBD. Plants have been refined in such a way that they have a composition that is good for different diseases and diagnoses and that gives the right patients the right conditions. It was also something that we talked about with those who were in front of us on Tuesday. The chemists would also like to go in and see how they can do it so that you get different contents in the different capsules you can get. We also know this from what can be imported from the Netherlands, which in fact many countries do. As I have been informed, it is both Finland, Italy, Germany, the Czech Republic and Canada that gets Bedrocan from the Netherlands. It exists in different strengths, so that you can also ensure that those who only need the CBD can get medical cannabis that doesn't give a rush. When we look at the prices that are in Canada, it turns out that it costs 350 kroner. a month for a single patient as we have been informed. So these are some of the things that I hope the committee and the parties that go together can work on: what can we do to get started? I also know, of course, as the Minister says, that there is no funding here. I don't have any money I can take out of my pocket either, but we can hope that the 20 million. kr. that was set off for research into medical cannabis, still gone. Otherwise, we will have to work towards getting money set aside for it in the future. The most important thing is that we get started, that we realise who it is that should help make prescriptions for those patients, what it is for patients who are going into the scheme, how we get measured effects and side effects, and what else is and who is responsible. What you are afraid of from the state is that it is the state that is responsible if there are side effects. I think that we can also give the citizens the responsibility and say: if a citizen wants to be involved in this project, it may be that it is the citizen's own responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211114543	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211114602	We are discussing today B 5, draft parliamentary resolution on the legalisation of medical cannabis, tabled by the Alternative. The legalization of medical cannabis is, after all, an old acquaintance here in the Assembly Hall. As I understand the intention of the authors of the motion for a resolution, we do not want a new discussion on whether cannabis should be legalised, but rather a discussion on how to ensure the best treatment and pain relief for patients with multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, depression, which are some of the groups identified by the alternative in the comments to the resolution. I would like to acknowledge that point of departure. I have also noted that the rapporteur has indicated before the debate that amendments will be tabled to his own motion for a resolution, which means that this will be a rather special debate, because what does the alternative really want? The health of the Danes has always been and will continue to be a priority for the Left. We have given priority to health and the elderly by means of the financial legislation that has just been concluded. kr., and that's a significant boost. It should be safe to be a patient in the Danish healthcare system, and no matter which patient group you belong to, you should be able to rely on the fact that the treatment and the preparations being treated with by Danish doctors have both high professionalism and evidence behind it. Medicinal products must meet requirements of proven efficacy, high quality and safety. One of the cornerstones of Danish legislation is the authorisation procedure for medicinal products, where for example: the proven effect must be greater than the adverse effects, the medicinal product must be safe to use, good manufacturing practice must be observed, and clinical research must be part of what is included in the documentation of the efficacy of the medicinal product. Today there are several preparations on the Danish market both with substances from cannabis and artificial cannabis, which comply with the rules. These preparations may, for example: specialists in neurology or general practitioners upon authorisation prescribe for example: multiple sclerosis patients. There is therefore cannabis medicine legally available on the Danish market today. Common to cannabis medicine, as we know it, is that there is evidence of the effect and manufacturers are approved for the manufacture of medicines. That is how we in the Left feel it should be. But there is also the possibility that doctors, through the right of free prescription, may prescribe medicinal products manufactured by a doctor to a single patient if other options have been exhausted. The doctor therefore derogates from the general rule of using the authorised marketed medicinal products when ordering magistral products. In the previous Health and Prevention Committee, we have also been interested in medical cannabis and the treatment options that may be hidden here. We have among other things. held an expert meeting to learn more about what is up and what is down, especially in view of the fact that in other countries too there is an interest in cannabis products. The Netherlands is often mentioned in this context. The starting point of the left is the safety of the patients. In the comments to the proposal, the proposer points out that there are indications that cannabis can have a knock-on effect on cancer. If you read the Cancer Control website, you will be able to read: • Some laboratory studies have shown that cannabinoids in their pure form can have an inhibiting effect on the level of activity of cancer cells. It is therefore said that the cannabinoids in cell trials have an anti-cancer effect. But there are also laboratory studies that show that cannabinoids can have a stimulating effect on growth and division, i.e. a pro-cancer effect. The laboratory tests therefore do not give a clear picture of a possible efficacy. So there are studies which point in both one direction and the other. On the Left side, we believe that it is important that we reserve funds for research into medical cannabis so that we can learn more about treatment effects and opportunities. Last year, a broad majority in the Folketing gave priority to funding through the research reserve for precisely research into pain relief with medical cannabis. We in the Left believe that this is the right way to go, namely to provide an evidence-based basis for the treatment of Danish patients. The Left, together with the other parties behind the Finance Act, has given priority to means of alternative treatment. This means that the Health Authority's Alternative Treatment Board will be strengthened with a pool of 5 million. kr. In 2016, targeted research projects in the field of alternative treatment. Medical cannabis could be an option here. The comments on the motion for a resolution show little about the economy and, in its entirety, the proposal is unfunded. It would have been nice if the alternative had contributed funding proposals to a significant cost-effective proposal. Finally, I would like to say that we in the Left are fully in line with the Medical Association, which has, of course, sent a letter to all the parliamentary health rapporteurs. The Minister of Health has previously quoted from the letter, so I will refrain from that part. The Left's starting point is that both patient treatment and the supply of medical products should be based on professional judgements based on professional evidence and not on political opinion. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal that has been tabled, but we support the fact that we are following the area closely, and we would like to insist that we work with it here in committee. I heard the rapporteur from the DF saying that we would like to continue working on this in committee, and we would very much like to support that on the part of the Left, and we would like to discuss what opportunities there are for giving priority to research funding in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115125	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first brief remark is from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115136	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur mentions that it should be like a political idea that it is politicians here in the Folketing who decide how things are going to be for our patients and our people out there. Now it is the case that there are 7 out of 10 Danes who actually want the legalisation of cannabis for medical use, so from my perspective it is we who listen to the population. And in this context, I would like to ask the rapporteur because the rapporteur himself spoke himself in the past as being on patients' terms: as the Danish Liberal Party, why is it that the Left cannot support that, while we are catching up on more research in this area, we allow patients who would like to be allowed to have the cannabis that they benefit so much when we know from the Netherlands that in 10 years there are zero reported side effects?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115242	The alternative rapporteur is quite right to say that I am on the side of patients. That is why I have the position that I have that the medicine that we offer to Danish patients must be well documented, it must be safe, it must be effective and it must have the effect of printing medicine on the basis of. So I'm very much on the side of the patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115307	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115311	Thank you. One could then resort to the United States and look at the American Cancer Institute, which on their website formally states that the clinical trials they have undergone show that there is an effect for many pain patients. I would like to ask the rapporteur in relation to the issue of patient safety again, in order to follow that line, I asked the Minister the same question, but I would also like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think it is better for patients and patients to go to the illegal market and buy drugs that we do not know what is in chemistry and concentration, rather than for example? could go to a pain center or to a doctor and have them ordained?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115353	No, I can by no means recommend anyone to enter either the black market or the illegal market. I think it is really important that we should perhaps have a discussion on how we can make greater use of the possibility of magistrel manufacturing medicinal products. Today we have legal medical cannabis in Denmark, but we must also recognise that people react differently to different products. And there are people who have probably already tried the legal medical cannabis products where they have not had the desired effect. And then I think it is a really good opportunity for you to make a medicine magically and say: Well, let's try to go that way instead. And that is also what I heard the Minister say: let us look at the possibilities and see if we use them all the way out into the corners.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115438	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115444	Thank you. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left, whether it would also be an idea to look at the way in which they deal with it, for example. Germany and Finland, where, after all, you can obtain a special extradition permit and then get Dutch medicines via the pharmacy. Could the Left be interested in looking at whether it could be a way that we could continue working on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115508	I think it would be quite natural if you decide to do so, and if it is some of the things we are working on in committee, as the DF's rapporteur suggested, that we look beyond Denmark's borders and look at what models they have there and what kind of clinical research we might also benefit from here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115527	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115530	I am thinking that this could be a supplement to the idea that some medicines can be manufactured magically, so that Dutch medicines could also be accessed through special delivery permits, which we know, not only from Germany and Finland, but also from a large number of other European countries. I think it would be a good thing if the Left were to play a part in exploring the possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115552	I do not know the Dutch, I do not know the Finnish, I do not know the American extradition rules either in depth or in detail. But I think it would be quite natural to decide that we should continue working on this in committee, that we should also look abroad and look at what experience has been gained there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115611	The next brief remark is from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115621	Thank you. The rapporteur is impressed by the fact that the Medical Association has not sought expert advice from those who work with medical cannabis before the association made its recommendation. at the Interprofessional Pain Center at the Rigshospitalet?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115635	I am impressed when the Medical Association writes to all the health rapporteurs in the Danish Parliament and asks the Danish Parliament's health rapporteurs not to support the resolution we are debating here. And I would just like to quote the last two lines: the Medical Association will therefore call for the Folketing to refrain from adopting the resolution in its present form. ▪ I'm impressed when the doctors say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115638	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115708	I understand that has made a great impression. But does it make a great impression that the Medical Association had not asked the experts in this area before making such a recommendation and opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115720	I believe that the concept of expert can be very broad. Seen from my chair, the Medical Association is one of many experts who would be worth listening to in this whole discussion, just as the patients and the doctors whom I assume are also working at the clinic at Rigshospitalet will be worth listening to. As far as I am concerned, there is a whole palette of experts to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115749	There are no more brief comments, thank you to the rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211115758	I would like to thank the alternative for having tabled the motion for a resolution that we are debating today and thus for raising a very important debate on medical cannabis. There is no doubt that the situation we have today is a massive failure of those patients who benefit from medical cannabis, who themselves must obtain it for a high price under criminal conditions and who, as several have mentioned in the debate here today, often receive low-quality products. Patients themselves describe that they have good effects of it and even experience that the medical cannabis products they use can some things that no other approved medicines can do. Several have today also referred to Chief Doctor Tina Horsted of the National Hospital's Pain Clinic, who similarly says that her experience is that it is absolutely correct that there is a significant effect on e.g. pain, which is her specialty, of the products that can be obtained illegally today. She also tells Jyllands-Posten that the situation we have today is humiliating to patients, and I think that is actually very appropriate. So thank you again for raising the question. I myself tabled a resolution about 11⁄2 years ago, I think, on the same subject, but with some other ideas. I would like to bring some of them into the debate. One idea is to look more at extradition permits for cannabis from the Netherlands, as we know it from other countries. The second is about research, which has already been discussed a great deal today, and where I think there is a basis for moving forward. The third issue I have mentioned briefly in today's debate is whether at least the patients who are in this situation could not be decriminalised or decriminalised. There are some possible models already that we could use. The alternative proposal here, as I understand it, is inspired by the model known in the Netherlands, where Dutch products can be accessed through a medical practitioner, if none of the approved medicines works and if, moreover, there are requirements for a defined list of symptoms. I think this is an interesting model and we would very much like to discuss it further. We are also open to discussing other methods. I have also noticed that Tina Horsted calls for this to be a specialist task rather than a task for general practice. I think we could discuss further whether this could be the way it could be done. Special permits could be another way. The Minister has brought the subject of magistrelle drugs instead of the Dutch into the debate. I think that is really interesting too. So, as far as I am concerned, we actually have some opportunities to move forward, regardless of how it ends up with the resolution that is here today. And I think it would be immensely gratifying if it could be done. So, as far as we are concerned, I would say that we are very open to finding some sort of solution involving research, magistral medicines, potential extradition permits, and that we are addressing the issue of criminalisation that is happening today. Then I actually believe we have some options to knit some solutions together. These are my comments from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120144	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120148	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur how much the rapporteur weighs on clinical trials and evidence. After all, the rapporteur mentions Holland in his rapporteur's speech and, as far as I am aware, the products ordered in the Netherlands are not produced on the basis of clinical research, but solely on the basis of the fact that some doctors have ordered them and that patients have said that they are working.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120219	I think that is correct. The same will apply if you use magistral medicines, i.e. design a medicine for a given patient. Then it is probably the case that, in cooperation with a head doctor, you will check how it is administered. I think that is quite reasonable to do, especially when there is a doctor who would like to take responsibility for it and also use the opportunity to ensure that we can gain more knowledge in this area. Because if someone doesn't take some initiatives, if everyone just does what I think the Left does a little bit in this debate, because wait and see and hope that that research will once fail from the sky, then I'm afraid we won't get the knowledge we need so much. So I think there are some very interesting things, and I think it is very positive that the Netherlands is taking the lead. I also hope that we can come along, for example. using the possibilities that are beginning to emerge in collaboration with Glostrup Pharmacy in order to produce some of these drugs magically.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120325	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120326	I understand from the rapporteur that clinical research is not the most important thing. So I would just like to ask: if you now imagine that there is a patient who gets a medicine and gets hurt by it, who has the liability?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120343	First of all, I think the rapporteur from the Left misunderstands me, because what I am talking about is that we are trying to use some of these medicines for clinical research and for knowledge. But the Left says they won't do anything until we have that research, and then it's really, really hard to move on. There's a whole system of how to do clinical research and a whole system of magistral drugs, and you can easily use them in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120414	There is one more brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120418	For all other substances, the decision as to whether or not to use it as a medicinal product is based on the recommendations of the Danish Medicines Agency and the Danish Health Authority. Here it is the case that the Danish Medicines Agency and the Danish Health Service and the Medical Association advise against us implementing this resolution which would make it possible to print cannabis for patients. Now the Folketing is omnipotent, and it has nothing to do with drugs such as Viagra, but it has something to do with that we can decide pretty much what we want in here. However, one should think that there should be rather heavy arguments on the field to disregard the recommendations of the Medical Association, the Danish Medicines Agency and the Danish Health Authority. What is it that makes Mrs Stine Brix feel so much smarter about the research that is, so she feels that you can jump directly to the conclusion that you do if you vote yes here, namely that cannabis should be available for patients in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120524	I hear both the rapporteur of the Conservatives and the rapporteur of the Left make enormous efforts not to want to do anything in this matter. Because if you listen to the debate and also what I have said, there is a widespread will and an outstretched hand to try to find solutions. There is not some very square view that it should be exactly the words that the alternative has written in the motion for a resolution that will become what we end up with here. I myself have mentioned a number of ideas on what could be done to move forward. And I really think it is a pity that this is the approach taken by the right, that is to say that it is about finding some wording in the resolution that would allow it to be rejected rather than going into the debate on the many different options that actually exist here, so that we can move on and do something for the patients we are leaving behind right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120620	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120621	Now it is just that what we are discussing here is whether we should vote for or against the resolution. And I apologise if I have misunderstood, but I understood that the Enhedslisten intended to vote in favour of the resolution. The motion for a resolution is quite brief. It consists of three lines, and it is stated that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to draw up a bill allowing practitioners to print medical cannabis products for patients. That is what the proposal is about and what we are discussing is: should we vote in favour of it, or should we not vote in favour of it? We cannot then talk about everything else, that is to say that we must enter into a dialogue and everything. I would just like to know if it is not true that that is what Enhedslisten is in favour of, that is, what the resolution says. Otherwise, of course, you vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120702	Well, I don't know if the sound's bad over at the end where mr. Rasmus Jarlov is sitting, but the debate is one of them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that the alternative would like to propose something a little different from what is stated in their proposal, that is to say that they would like to table an amendment. I have come up with ideas on how to do it in a different way. There is, in fact, an opportunity here in the Folketing for one to make amendments; for one to make reports; for one to make agreements on how to move forward. If Conservatives would like to come out completely on how to find solutions, then you are welcome to do so. That's just not my approach. I think it is very good and very important that we have this debate, and I am very interested that we find ways of moving forward, and that is the starting point for my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120743	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211120753	Thank you. Medical cannabis is, as you know, banned today, but it is still used in large quantities. At Rigshospitalet's Interdisciplinary Pain Center, it is assumed that approx. 15% of patients illegally buying and using cannabis to medication themselves. It is seen that many parents of cannabis children buy cannabis to help them, but they have to do so in the criminal market, and on the black market there is no security for the quality of products and prices are sky-high. Legalisation can lead to increased safety for quality, lower prices and better advice, i.e. better patient safety. And since we probably do not avoid tax on this product, it can also bring money into the treasury instead of financing, for example. biker gangs. Those people who today buy and consume cannabis in order to endure their daily pain no longer need to be criminals if medical cannabis is legalized. Many experience great pain relief, relief from nausea, and better appetite. Research in mice also shows anti-inflammatory effects, blockage of cancer cells, obstruction of muscle cramps caused by multiple sclerosis. Although there is no scientific evidence, there are many good experiences with medical cannabis. Available research shows no evidence that patients in medical cannabis treatments develop psychosis or addiction, but a Danish study shows that 20 per cent. patients treated with morphine develop addiction. Cannabis can be prescribed by doctors in e.g. The Netherlands, Germany, Israel, Canada and a large number of American states. Liberal Alliance is also in favour of the legalisation of medical cannabis in Denmark. We should not, as politicians, determine the content of any medical products, but we should give professionals the opportunity to do so as with all other medical products. Today doctors do not have the opportunity to help many of their patients with medical cannabis. The Liberal Alliance would like to give them the opportunity to do so. It is, of course, the doctors who have to decide when and how, but they do not have that option today. If, as politicians, we say no to giving professionals that opportunity, we are actually turning ourselves into medical experts. As the resolution now stands, there is some uncertainty about both the economy and the procedure, so we propose that work be continued on it, and we look forward to any changes or any other form of decision-making that we can continue with. So we are very positive about continuing to work on the legalisation of medical cannabis, but not in the same form as this resolution, as it stands at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121128	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121132	I must admit that I am a little confused after hearing the rapporteur's speech. Because the rapporteur says that medical cannabis is illegal. Well, that's not true. We have medicinal cannabis products on the market today and the rapporteur uses the wording: if it is realised. Well, we have up to now several legal medicinal cannabis products on the market, so I simply do not understand the rapporteur's starting point. The rapporteur says that it is the doctors who have to decide how. I fully agree with that, and yet the rapporteur says that you want something, even if there is no evidence of it. Yesterday, the rapporteur stood on the same platform and said the following about evidence, and now I quote: it is the professional professionals who have to make the professional judgement, not politicians. I am a little confused about what the rapporteur really thinks about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121231	The rapporteur mentioned two things, and the first was whether medical cannabis is prohibited or legal. It is true that there are some synthetic products that are allowed today. We can produce some synthetic medical cannabis products that many users do not enjoy. The products do not have the desired effect, and some cannot even use them. They can be made in the form of pills that some cannot actually take, and some of those who take the pills have a lot of discomfort about it. What we want is for some raw cannabis products to be developed, for example. can make oil or spikes, i.e. make it so that other and more patients can also use it. In relation to the second part concerning evidence and who is professional, I would like to say, as I said in my speech, that it is precisely not politicians who should decide how to develop and put together medicinal products. But what we are doing here by not even wanting to give the doctors permission is that we make ourselves medical experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121344	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121346	Once again, I just have to say that the confusion is total. Because it is absolutely right that we have medical cannabis that has been produced artificially, for example. Marinol. We also have Sativex, which is made of cannabis that is not artificial. So I simply do not understand what the rapporteur really means.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121411	The rapporteur believes that the opportunities for developing and making medical cannabis products for patients today are so limited. The few products you can make today do not have the desired effect for many patients, and we would like to see a broad legalisation of it so that patients who need a different form of medical cannabis will be able to do so. And it is not up to us to decide the composition of it, and it is not up to us to decide which patients should have it. It is the doctors who have the professional knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121448	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121453	I also did not understand what the Liberal Alliance meant, because the rapporteur concluded by saying that they are not positive about the legislative proposal as it stands here. I was also totally confused before when I heard Enhedslisten say that they were positive about more research. But that is not what the motion for a resolution says at all. The resolution states that it must be possible to print medical cannabis products for patients. And you cannot come at second reading and then come up with a proposal which is completely different. So there is a motion for a resolution, and that is what we have to take a position on, and then we cannot talk about being in favour of everything else. So what exactly is Liberal Alliance in favour? I'd like to know. The second thing I would like to know is that I have shown 20 seconds yet to see whether it is a general principle for the Liberal Alliance that doctors should be allowed to print anything, that is, the individual doctor, or whether we should stick to the fact that we in Denmark have a procedure in which we approve some medicines which are then allowed for doctors to print? Are we going to ignore it completely and change that procedure, or is it just for this product, because it is very popular and mentioned in the media, that we have to ignore that procedure and allow doctors to do everything?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121605	I understand that sir. Rasmus Jarlov is a little confused, because it's actually a little confusing. A motion for a resolution has been tabled in which, even before it has been tabled, there are amendments. So, the alternative has come up with some amendments to their own resolution. So it's actually a little confusing. We in the Liberal Alliance are in favour of the legalisation of medical cannabis, but we cannot take a position on it in the slightly confused form in which it lies right now. That is why we would like to see a further work done on it, so that a different basis can be created for further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121647	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121652	Okay, but is the Liberal Alliance voting for or against this resolution? In other words, that is just like why we are here, in other words to find out whether we should support this motion for a resolution or not to support it. And so it is okay to support everything else, but is it actually voting for or against this resolution, which means that doctors have to print medical cannabis products for patients? That is what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121718	I have heard that there is something called yellow, and it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121723	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211121745	Thank you. In the Radical Left we are in favour of medical cannabis and also raw cannabis flower, as we also said, the last time there was a resolution on it in this Chamber. We believe it is crucial that you can get the necessary relief as a patient, even if you do not tolerate or do not respond to conventional medicine, as our then health rapporteur, Camilla Hersom, said, and she continued: "But we have an obligation to ensure that what we offer to Danish patients has been adequately examined. That is why we also supported the proposal for more clinical research at the time. It was 2 years ago, and since then, with the then Minister of Education, Sofie Carsten Nielsen, we have set aside money for research into medical cannabis. We have then tried to push for the research road, but we have also run our foreheads against a wall, because our money for research has not been spent. That is why we in the Radical Left are open to the resolution. We think that research is too little in the proposal and that is why we would like to table an amendment that qualifies the proposal. We want clinical trials with medical cannabis and we want to change the proposal for a large-scale trial, linking follow-up research to those patients who should be able to get raw cannabis flower at the pharmacy. And we've already talked about that with the alternative. I might as well preempt the criticism, because I know that both the Left and the Socialists think it is a slippery slope. And, as I also said yesterday when we discussed tick-borne infections, I would say that we are politicians and not doctors, and therefore I do not know what treatment works and how well. And that is why I also agree with the starting point that the Folketing does not legislate on certain treatments. Our fundamental view therefore remains that we must make the same requirements for medical cannabis as we do for other medicines. And as the Rigshospitalet has told us in committee, pain relief in medical cannabis will also be measured in exactly the same way as in other medicines. We've set aside money for research. I've asked the Ministry to explain why this research hasn't gotten under way. We have not been able to get an answer to that. I've been asking the Ministry what a model of follow-up research and such a large scale experiment could look like. I have not received an answer to that either. And when the ministry then says that this research at Rigshospitalet will probably in itself be too small to provide evidence, and I've asked what it is then that it is necessary for us to actually get evidence, then I haven't got an answer to it either. To that I have to say that it is a little bit difficult to argue that there is no evidence if, at the same time, you say that there can be no evidence. I believe that we have an obligation to ensure that this is properly investigated. That is why we want clinical trials and why we want legalisation as a large-scale experiment followed by research.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122122	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122125	Well, I would really like to sign up for the rapporteur's speech, because I understand that we have exactly the same view as the previous rapporteur had, as in his rapporteur's speech on 29 April on medical cannabis, that we have to make exactly the same demands for medical cannabis as for all other medicines. I just want to sign off on the fact that you still have that starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122152	That is our starting point, and that is also why I am trying to see whether we can agree on an amendment that will ensure 1) that we have clinical trials and 2) that we do a legalisation as an experiment linked to research.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122210	The next brief remark is from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122214	I would just like to ask the rapporteur a question because I got the impression that the rapporteur said that we support the resolution as it stands and, at the same time, the rapporteur says that the same demands are made as for all other medicines. I do not think that coincides with exactly what is in this motion for a resolution. Is there something here I didn't get right in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122235	Yes, there is. I said that we are working on an amendment which should make it possible, firstly, to launch a clinical trial and, secondly, to do legalisation as a large-scale experiment linked to research. It is of course important, as the rapporteur is quite right, that we follow it with research.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122254	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122302	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that, as a starting point, we in the SF support the underlying ideas in the proposal we are discussing here today. When I say the underlying ideas, I'll get back to the substance of it. Many Danes demand better access to medical cannabis because they experience that it relieves the symptoms of their cancer or improves their sclerosis. I think it is important to listen to the wishes that exist. We have also been approached, although I may think that some of them have been provided in a way I would have liked to reject, but I will have to take that discussion with the alternative at a later stage. I also think it is important to maintain that medical cannabis should be like all other medicines: completely safe for patients to use. It must help patients, but there must also be clarity about possible side effects. Today, patients are left in a no-man's-land, and so I understand very well that there are some patients who are in a very, very critical situation. For many of them, this is a terminal phase of their lives and, of course, it also leaves patients in a very vulnerable situation in which they demand all possible help in solving the very difficult situation they face. It also makes the discussion about medical cannabis very complex. There are many things we don't know about medical cannabis, and cannabis can be made for medicine in many different ways. I am not going to stand here and advocate either the effect or the side effects of the various sub-prescriptions. I simply do not have the expertise to understand that. However, we support the intention to investigate this further. As the former rapporteur from the Radical Left also pointed out, two years ago, we set aside an amount for research in this area in the research reserve. Unfortunately, there were no researchers who put a ticket on it, which in itself is a challenge, and that is why, of course, we also have to look at what the background to it is. I would like to acknowledge there that the radical rapporteur has already asked about the challenges or problems that arise in this regard. But I also think it is important to make it clear that there are so many people who have shown that they enjoy medical cannabis. The debate which has taken place over the last few days before this debate is a clear testimony to this. The specific proposal, which is intended to ensure the possibility of prescribing medical cannabis, may also raise a number of issues. As the Conservative rapporteur also mentioned earlier on some issues, there are some challenges in the very brief assessment of the proposal. That is also why I initially expressed reservations about our support for the idea. We are in agreement on the substance of the proposal, and I can also understand from the rapporteur of the alternative, that an amendment to it will be tabled. The radical rapporteur also mentioned this. It is therefore perhaps a little difficult to say where exactly we are going with the final proposal. In fact, I think that we in the Danish Parliament can gather support for both getting some research started, but also get some more systematic experiments started. There are some patient groups who regardless of what we decide today or tomorrow or in 3-4 weeks' time when this might be voted on, who will also use medical cannabis in the future. That is why I think that we are doing them and also ourselves a favour by having it examined in depth, gained the experience that has been gained, but perhaps also gained knowledge of the side effects, so that patients can ultimately make a decision on an informed basis in relation to what products they want to use. I can also understand that you go to Glostrup Hospital, among other things. have gained some experience in starting to produce. In the Health Committee on Tuesday, some people learned more about the whole process that is going on. As recently as Monday, some additional possibilities were also provided by the Danish Health Authority that some sub-prescriptions can also be produced at Glostrup Hospital. So there are a lot of things that I think we need to investigate. I have also been able to read myself out that what is called Bedrocan now I am not going to make myself a linguistic expert, which is one of the things being produced today in the Netherlands. In my view, it is important that we ensure a proper process in relation to extradition and, above all, that the products we are talking about are also assessed in a purely professional way and that the entire production behind it is also in accordance with the regulations we will be putting forward for the production of medical products in Denmark. Then there has been a discussion that will often be there when we discuss cannabis, and I just have to say that briefly here. There have been many discussions about what we are discussing. I think it is important to stick to the fact that this is about medical cannabis for a patient group that has some very, very severe symptoms, which I also think we need to provide some answers to. That is why the SF's position in principle is also that we support moving forward with the work on medical cannabis. I think it is important that we ensure that there is research support for this, but also that we should be happy to start some experiments. I also think it seems that there is really a broad understanding between the parties, even though some have perhaps tried to speak further apart today than perhaps there are grounds for doing so in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122813	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122819	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understood SF in the way that SF believes it would be a good idea to investigate the effects of cannabis in medical treatment more closely. I also understood SF in the way that one was not in favour of us moving directly to here in the Folketing to decide that there should be a law that allows doctors to print cannabis products for patients. It is only then that I think that this is actually what the motion for a resolution is all about. There are also limits to how much a resolution can be amended in the second round. So the question is: was it not better to table a new resolution? We cannot, of course, table a motion for a resolution to allow doctors to print medicinal cannabis products, and then in the second round change it to something quite different, which is that now we want some more research on cannabis effects. So would it not be better to table a new resolution in that case?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211122921	I think we need to decide that there is a proposal. I think there are a great many good intentions in that proposal. I also understand that the alternative has already begun to work on an amendment to their own proposal. I know there's no one to tell me what to say either. I think we should therefore welcome the fact that we can all become wiser in this process, and I have also noticed that the Alternative has obviously also said that there are some things here that can be better adapted. The Radicals have also proposed from the platform some amendments which, in my view, would make it better, precisely that we are focusing on experiments and we are just focusing on research. With these comments, I would like to say that this is something that we would be able to support from the SF. So we will take a constructive look at whether we cannot adapt the resolution that we have before us today so that we can both set up a sensible framework and hopefully also bring it to adoption. Then, of course, we must set in motion the research and experiments which, in the end, must, of course, be subject to the fact that there must also be some doctors seeking to carry out studies. But I also think we can experience both in the daily press and also in the debate that has been held in the Committee on Health that some doctors actually want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123028	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123031	In other words, I think there is some problem in tabling a motion for a resolution which is dealt with by two readings in the Folketing, if it is about one thing and then during the second reading is about something quite different. For then there are not really two readings; in fact, there is only one reading, because then we will only get one round of what the proposal is really about. However, I would just like to hear in concrete terms whether SF agrees that without further research, we cannot begin to allow doctors to print cannabis products for patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123108	No, I don't agree with that. Because I think that a prerequisite for doing research on medical cannabis is that you have some patients who receive it. In fact, I think that the two things go together, so I think that what the Conservatives are doing is a bit contradictory. I am, in fact, in favour of both experimenting, but also of doing research, and I believe that this is something that can be linked to the resolution before us today. It is precisely about the legalisation of medical cannabis and it is precisely about ensuring that patients who have a need are given a legal opportunity to obtain the product they are already using for many people today. I think that is actually a good idea, and we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123142	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123200	I will start from the resolution when I have to comment on it, and not in everything else, although I understand that all the parties supporting the resolution do not really support the resolution, but support something quite different from what the resolution says, namely that there should be more research into the effects of cannabis. We might actually be in favour of this, but now I am starting from the motion for a resolution, which is that we in Denmark should allow doctors to print cannabis products for patients, so the Folketing must make that decision. This is then called the legalization of cannabis for medical use. In this respect, I think it is important that we have the facts in place. It is not prohibited to use cannabis for medical treatment. There are already authorised medicines with cannabis on the market. It is just the case that cannabis medicines must follow the same guidelines as all other medicines, not more stringent requirements, but no more relaxing requirements. Before a medicinal product is authorised, it must be proven that it is working and there must be quite large studies that illustrate the effects and side effects. The Danish Medicines Agency then decides whether authorisation for use should be granted. That is how we have chosen the rules, the procedure should be, because we want to be sure that the medicines are safe and that the effect exceeds the side effects. So the only reason why cannabis cannot be used to a greater extent as a drug is that there is no evidence that it works. No party in here has anything in principle against the substance, certainly not the Conservative People's Party. There would be no reasonable reason for that. But what the supporters of today's motion for a resolution want is not legalisation; it is positive discrimination against a particular substance. Exactly for this drug, it should not be the Danish Medicines Agency and the professional documentation that should be crucial; instead, the Danish Parliament must override the general guidelines and grant a special permission for the use of cannabis because it is a very media-related and popular substance. Quite frankly, we find that rather irresponsible. Nor is it the case that when Novo Nordisk comes out with a new insulin, we sit here in the Folketing and decide whether it should be allowed for doctors in Denmark to print it or not. We follow some guidelines, we follow some procedures, then we have to provide evidence that a product works before we grant such a permit, and that is therefore the most sensible thing. We are unable in here to assess the evidence, and it is irresponsible to refer to individual patients that have been heard about in the press, or some well-known people who can tell about the effect of cannabis, and then use it as evidence. The Danish Medicines Agency sits and looks carefully at all the documentation available and when they conclude that there is insufficient evidence that cannabis acts as a medicine, then that decision should be respected. We cannot sit here and be smarter than the Danish Medicines Agency, the Danish Health Service and the Medical Association, which all advise against adopting this motion for a resolution on which we shall vote at some point. We think it is irresponsible and we are also disappointed that normally serious parties, such as the Radical Left, apparently intend to vote this through. I do not know what is going to be voted on here in the second round, because I understand that we are going to vote on something quite different from what is actually in the resolution. So we have to take the debate again when we see what is actually being proposed. But today's motion for a resolution is in any case against.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123607	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123609	The rapporteur now refers to the Danish Medicines Agency and it is quite correct that decisions are taken by the Danish Medicines Agency and the Danish Health Authority on the approval of medicines. Now I am going to drag the debate somewhere else, but in relation to the HPV vaccine, which we have also introduced and approved in Denmark, I have previously asked the board what the criteria for evidence are actually, when you have enough evidence. And there they write to me in a reply that at the time of approval it cannot be avoided that there will be a number of uncertainties and questions about effect or side effects. This is due, among other things, to: the medicinal product has only been used in a setup for clinical trials and not in clinical practice before placing the medicinal product on the market. Therefore, further post-marketing trials are often followed up. Is it the rapporteur's view that we should therefore always wait until the Danish Medicines Agency or the Danish Health Authority says that they now have 100,000 attempts at home and that we cannot therefore approve anything until we are there when we take these answers into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123712	No 100,000 tests are required until the Danish Medicines Agency says they will approve a product to be placed on the market. Normally, as far as I know, a few thousand trials and a few thousand trial patients are required in these trials before they are ready to approve a product, and I think that is very reasonable. It is a very reasonable sample which provides quite considerable certainty. Of course, there is never a hundred per cent assurance of how a product works, and therefore it is true that you can also make tests afterwards. But before you approve it, there has to be some evidence to say that it works so that you do not just approve anything. It is quite important to maintain patient safety, and we do not share the view that I understand that some parties in here have that it should be up to the individual doctor, because there are doctors who are not good enough. There are also doctors who may be misled by erroneous marketing, and there we just say: We need to approve from the centre what medicines patients in Denmark should be able to get. And it is not the Folketing that makes that decision. It's the DEA.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123815	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123819	I think that's a big distrust for the doctors out there. Doctors sign the medical vow when they start their medical work, where they actually promise that they will treat patients according to good medical practice. Now that Conservatives are so clearly reporting from here, can the rapporteur not tell me how Conservatives will respond to the many, many Danish patients who are in pain and who are being helped by cannabis but who today have to go on the black market?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123852	I am sorry that the alternative cannot answer what I am saying now, because I would really like to hear from the alternative: when you say that it is a statement of distrust to the doctors, that I believe and that the Conservative People's Party believes that we should have the Danish Medicines Agency to decide which products the doctors may print to patients, instead of each doctor being able to sit and take a stand and print a whole lot of products that are not approved from the central team, is it just for cannabis, or is it generally the opinion of the alternative that we should completely scrap our procedure for the authorisation of medicines and that the doctors should just be allowed to print anything? What the alternative proposes is very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123934	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have a privateist, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211123951	Thank you for the floor. This is the first time I've signed up as a privateist, so I haven't done that before, but once I have to be the first. And when I have done so, it is not because I disagree with the rapporteur of the Left. I do not disagree with the Minister for Health either. I agree with every word that both have said here today, both from the Chamber and from the platform. On the other hand, I do not disagree with what has emerged from the alternative, from the Danish People's Party, from the Enhedslisten and so on, and I think that in this debate we are talking past each other. When we have to demean each other's arguments in politics, we sometimes say that that and the argument or even the one and the speaker are on the moon. I do not think anyone has been in this debate, but I am thinking of the old book, which says: 'Men are from Mars' Women are from Venus', and that is also what I think somewhere is a little characteristic of this debate, where the Minister and Left rapporteur and the Socialist rapporteur, Flemming Møller Mortensen, are on one planet and the Alternative, the Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party, etc. is on another planet. Then you can choose who wants to be on Mars and who wants to be on Venus. I shall then try to find some common denominator here from my place on the ground, because on the one hand it is clear that it must be the case that we in this Parliament do not approve medicines. We don't have the expertise to do that, and it would be totally absurd if we were to go in and trump a medical opinion, a medical assessment, and say: You may say otherwise, but this medicine we would have approved, and please, you could take a little hurry, so it's gonna be quick. We cannot do that, and that is what the alternative is asking us to do in the resolution. I do not agree with the wording of this motion for a resolution. I think it is relatively unclear what is really meant. But I think I have an idea where you want to go. Because as I hear the debate not just here today, I've been following this debate since the late 1980s, there's an impatience with the established system, where you say: Well, why do sick people have to wait for the system to finish developing prescription, approved medicine, while some patients are walking around feeling bad and they know from their own experience that they're getting better if they buy some hashish? They do that on the black market, because it's the only place they can get it. On the other hand, we have cannabis products in approved medicines which, however, are not prescribed so much, and how many patients do not experience that they have exactly the same soothing effect that they get when they buy, if I may say so, real hashish. I think it is absolutely unworthy that sick people should be criminalised and move into a criminal environment, deal with some Bandidosrocker and support the criminal underworld in order to get a remedy that they experience relieves their symptoms. So maybe we can find some model, and I have to say that I think that the hand that has come from the minister is very extensive, but it may of course be that it should be extended even more ■ where it is not only the Minister for Health we are thinking about, but where we also have the Minister for Social Affairs in where we have the Minister for Justice in where we think broadly and try to think out of the box; so, perhaps we can find some model where, while waiting for the best, we can settle for the next best in the intervening period. It is said that the best is the worst enemy of the good, and I think that is perhaps also a sign of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211124422	Thanks to the privateist. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211124432	Thank you so much. There are many things I want to say now. I think I will start by thanking the Minister, all the rapporteurs and the privateist here at the end of the day for the good, sometimes tough and also very constructive comments on our resolution. I think I must first of all explain that yes, we have tabled a motion for a resolution which was not very specific. There are two reasons for this. One is that, at the time we tabled the motion for a resolution, we did not come so far in our deliberations on how this could be done. But the second and also important reason is that, in the alternative, we would like to try to introduce a new political culture at Christiansborg, where we can actually discuss the things that we have to decide on and from the discussions continue with it. I think that's what we've been trying to do here. We are listening to what is coming in the Chamber today. We take note of this, and we will then go out and work on it with the parties that want to be involved. So it is an attempt to open up, but I recognise that it may not have been the most fortunate process, and I am not afraid to say that we have been wrong in that it could have been a little more sharp. So I hope that we have closed it. The second thing I want to say is what we want. In the alternative, we would like to introduce a pilot project. Now we have proposed three years, and it may well be something else, and our proposal is that we import Dutch preparations, which have a great deal of variation in terms of effect, and that, while patients can get it, we do an evidence measurement, a continuous impact measurement. How the power measurement is to be combined is something that needs to be decided by experts. We had appeared before the Health Committee of Tina Horsted on Tuesday, and she mentioned among other things. SF-36, which I know very well from my old work. It is a very good instrument for measuring the physical and psychological effects of medical interventions and also other interventions. It's just an idea. However, we would like to introduce a project period in which, while giving patients the opportunity to have cannabis, we measure the effect. So we talk research and implementation in one. Then there has been the criticism about the Medical Association. I take note of the Medical Association's letter. I have not spoken to, but written with Andreas Rudkjøbing, whom I know very well, in relation to the letter they have written, and we respect the position of the Medical Association. Having said that, we must also say that we have talked to, among other things. The PLO and many independent practitioners have said that there are many doctors out there who would actually like to have the opportunity to print cannabis for their patients because there are many patients who demand it. And I'm afraid they have to say, no, we can't help you. Then I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for bringing this up by saying that yes, we have some preparations on the market today. There is a lack of variation in the preparations we have on the market today. I think we have mentioned this several times, and I very, very much agree with that. I would like to thank Enhedslisten for being so open to finding possible solutions. I would also like to thank the Liberal Alliance for its constructive comments and thank the Radicals and the SF for pointing out the research. Finally, thank you to the privateist for actually trying to see how we nuance this debate, because we are not really interested in this being a debate where we cannot reach each other. We would so like to be able to reach a common solution. First of all, we all know that many Danish patients today consume cannabis. Many use cannabis oil, some use tablets, others use other forms of cannabis. And everyone, with few exceptions, is therefore obliged to buy the cannabis on the black market. It is not appropriate for Danish patients to be unable to benefit from the positive effects of cannabis without actually committing a criminal act. On the one hand, some people miss the medication and, on the other hand, some serious consequences for patients who actually choose to defy the law. I have spoken to many patients who are very sorry that they are actually committing criminal acts. Secondly, many people also experience stigmatising from the environment. Thirdly, it is actually quite expensive to go out to the private market and buy medical cannabis. Fourthly, patients receive no advice on the products they buy and they do not know what is in them. Can it really be true that sick patients have to be forced into an unsafe market just to get their medicine? After all, these are some of the factors we need to take into account in this discussion, especially when we are talking about patient safety. Can it really be right that we let our patients go to the black market and buy some medicines that they have no idea what they are and that they are self-medication when we could actually snap our fingers with a political grip and find a solution? Because if we want to, we can do it. That is also why I ask: why is it so difficult for us in Denmark to find a solution if we want research? If we also want to meet the need for cannabis, we can actually do it. It may be that we have done differently in the Netherlands, in other words that we are not researching the products that we hand over. You might be researching some places where it's just clinical trials. Why can we not take the lead in Denmark and do so in a third way, where we both research and at the same time can accommodate patients who actually want to benefit from medical cannabis? I simply cannot understand that, and I think it would be so great if we in Denmark, like the Danish Parliament, could go out and meet the criteria for clinical evidence that we all agree we have to meet, while at the same time actually satisfying the needs of very many Danes. So I fully understand that we need some evidence in Denmark. We're not saying in the alternative that we have enough evidence. Yes, something is missing, and we want to make up for that. Then I also have to point out that there is research, among other things. particularly in the United States, which points to positive effects. So we must also be careful that we are not out to say that there is no evidence at all. And the recent review by the National Health Service made me laugh a little when I read it yesterday. Because it's a little remarkable that all the studies that the Danish Health Authority takes into that note are actually some that show negative effect or no effect, and I can go to the American Cancer Institute's website and find a lot of other studies that have not been included. So we must also remember to maintain the critical approach to our authorities here. The Multiple Sclerosis Society is also in favour of medical cannabis, so we also have other kinds of experts. Why don't we listen to them? I got a text during the debate here from a patient association called Multiple Hereditary Exostosis I don't know what it is but it was the President from there who wrote to me: We don't want you to say that we are also in favour of medical cannabis when you go up on the platform? So it's done. I think we owe it to these patients to try out a product with which so many of their fellow sufferers have positive experiences. I have said this before, and I say it again: seven out of ten Danes, according to the analysis company InFact, are in favour of legalising medical cannabis in Denmark • cannabis for medical purposes. And then I have no doubt that the results will be good when we try it out. We can just look at some of the other countries and then we can ask: if it didn't work, would you continue to print cannabis on prescription in the Netherlands, in Israel, in Germany, in Finland, in Canada, in the Czech Republic? Would you keep doing that if it didn't work? No, you wouldn't. You would have stopped it a long time ago. So why are we so afraid to try this out? Well, what's the worst that can happen? We have stories from the Netherlands that show that they have no reporting of side effects within 10 years. What's the worst that can happen? The worst thing that can happen is that in three years' time, we'll look ourselves in the eye, and hopefully we'll say that, and I believe that it worked, and we'll make this a firm offer. And if it didn't work, the worst thing that can happen is that we say: well, but we have to take note of that. The Minister has also mentioned something about the economy, and here I have to say that with all the savings that have been made elsewhere and with all the money that has been posted in the health care system, it seems a little strange if you cannot find the money we will find. I think if we want to, we can do it. We should also remember that some of the people who take medical cannabis do not need much of the expensive medicine, so we save some money in that account. I also sit regularly and approve documents from the Ministry of Health, where I have to nod to move money from one reserve account to another, so there has to be some money on some reserves here and there. Finally, I would like to raise a little discussion in the helicopter, because what are we actually discussing here today? What we are talking about here today is that there are a lot of sick Danes who experience pain, nausea, muscle cramps, side effects of chemo every day. This is about the fact that, if we have the will and the courage to do so, we will be able to alleviate the suffering of these people, while at the same time getting the research we are all screaming for. We can do this if we want to, and I sincerely hope we want to do that here in the Folketing. Yes, it is the alternative that has tabled this motion for a resolution. It could have been any other party in the Chamber. Let us now work together to find a solution for all the patients who are asking us to do so. It takes political courage, yes, we must show that, but if there are some who are brave today, it is all those patients out there who are struggling with pain every day and those who go to the criminal market to buy painkillers cannabis products to fight these pains. They're brave. If they are brave, then we can be brave. Finally, I would like to express my support for the debate. I would like to thank you very much for all the constructive contributions that have been made. I look very much forward to further cooperation, and I actually believe that we can find a solution that we can nod to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125448	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125456	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the honesty with which the rapporteur starts the description of the proposers' process. In fact, as the Socialist rapporteur on health, I think it is a pity that we, the other parties, have had to deal with a motion for a resolution which, as the authors themselves put it, has not been very fortunate in terms of the process, but we cannot do anything else when it comes to this House. Indeed, I think that this issue, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, really calls for a great deal of political attention and a desire to do the best for patients. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether, perhaps in the light of hindsight, there could have been an advantage in not putting it here as a motion for a resolution, but having raised a question debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125551	I can reply briefly to that and I can say that it may well be. In the light of my parliamentary experience so far, we have considered that what we were going to do was to table a motion for a resolution. It may have been sensible to raise it as a question debate. I just have to take note of the fact that the process has now been as it has been. I regretted and said that perhaps we should have taken a slightly different approach, and then I just look forward to cooperation being constructive in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125617	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125618	Thank you very much. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: when the press release, the hearing from the Medical Association, looked into the alternative, what was the immediate thought? I thought, have I seen this before? Have I ever seen this professional organization with the positive authority and with the professionalism expressed itself so clearly in relation to a political desire to go a new way medically? I did not, and that is why I should like to ask the rapporteur: is this something that has influenced the alternative in their reflection?
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125701	It certainly has. I can also tell you what my immediate reaction was. When I read it, my immediate reaction was that I actually made contact with the Medical Association. I would like to tell you that I have a very good working relationship with the Medical Association, and in other areas we in the Alternative are very much in agreement with the Medical Association, among others. in relation to the priority debate. So I made contact with the Medical Association and asked plainly: I really would like to ask how to make such a decision in the Medical Association. It is not because I criticize them because, as I said, we have respect for their position, but to hear what it is actually for a basis on which that decision has been taken. There we wrote back and forth, me and Andreas Rudkøbing, and he told us that the subject has been discussed briefly at the Medical Association's last board meeting, and then the decision has been made. So we must also note that at least it has not been in the medical profession and in the general medical profession. That does not mean that I do not take note of their position. I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125757	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125801	Thank you. On the one hand, I would like to start by expressing my appreciation of the fact that the rapporteur is reporting honestly and saying that it is a little messy. This is also going to be a rather strange debate we are having, because what are we actually discussing? On the other hand, I will also be a little awkward when the rapporteur goes to the platform and, like, sets it up as if it were a for or against medical cannabis. In fact, I have not heard a single rapporteur in here today say that one is against medical cannabis. Everyone has spoken for what everyone has said is a good idea. We have it, and we appreciate it. Can we get more, can we research it, can we learn more, can we get more knowledge that can help the patients who go out there? If so, we'd like to. Then I do not quite understand when the rapporteur is talking about being for or against, because I think that is quite wrong in this debate. I'd like to say that. The rapporteur then tells us that the rapporteur has discussed this with a number of doctors and that doctors would like to have the opportunity to print medical cannabis. But the doctors have that opportunity today. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether there are many or few, as I do not know, with whom the rapporteur has been in dialogue, and whether they have indicated why they do not use the opportunities they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211125910	That was two questions at once. Firstly, I would like to say that I recognise and welcome the fact that everyone would like to work to ensure that medical cannabis can be introduced more widely in Denmark. Where the challenge stands right now, if we are firm on a demand that we first have to make, for example. Ten years of clinical laboratory research now I say 10 years, but it takes a long time because it takes a long time before we can introduce it to the market. That is why we are trying to find a model in which we can actually meet more needs. That was one answer. The second is that yes, the doctors I've talked to see that challenge. Firstly, it is only specialists in neurology who can print Saltivex, but the general practitioners cannot. It can only doctors in neurology or neuromedicine. Marinol may ask for an extradition permit, but Marinol has the challenge that it consists exclusively of THC. I think I mentioned a little earlier, I do not remember that this may be a problem, because there are some patients who react badly to it or where Marinol does not actually fit their symptoms best, so they demand a greater variety of offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130016	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130018	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions clinical research. I do not know where the rapporteur has the number of years from which the rapporteur mentions, but I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not share the view that there should be some evidence and that there should be some research behind it, also in order to ensure, as well as for the patients who are already severely affected by epilepsy, by sclerosis, by cancer, that the medicine that we are offering actually has the effect that we want it to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130054	Now I come from the health world and have actually been doing health research, so I know the area from the inside. And yes, I fully understand that we must, of course, do clinical research. There is also research in the health world, such as: researches on the basis of quality of life. In fact, I think that is important to point out here too. It is not only about the clinical effect, but also about the quality of life. What I am advocating is that we can make an experiment in which we actually meet a research need on the one hand and a need for patients to actually get cannabis at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130128	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130130	Thank you for your speech and also thank you for the honesty of the process, in which Mrs Magdalene Maier acknowledges that the resolution is rather inaccurate and that it will have to be changed. I think that is quite frank talk and there should be no reproach for the alternative for it. It is certainly permitted to become wiser. It's only a good thing that you can do it, that you hear some arguments, and then you say: okay, this might not be the most appropriate thing, so let's try something else. I would just like to ask whether it can be imagined that the alternative will withdraw the resolution and then put forward a new one that better affects what we saw in the course of today and in the other debate will be appropriate and on which a broad consensus can be reached. Because I think it is a little a problem that we have a different treatment where we have to discuss something quite different. After all, the medical association has responded to something quite different from what we are going to discuss in the second round, and then we will not have what is intended to have two treatments, namely a thorough discussion of what we can actually do. So if you really want to be a good democrat, be open to changing positions, etc., then the alternative in my book will score incredibly many points if they come up with a new resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130242	I cannot say exactly what we want, because that depends on the discussions we are going to take. What I am going to do now is to sit down with all the rapporteurs who might be interested in having a debate on what the next step should be in this process. And then we will discuss whether it is to table an amendment to the resolution, and if so, that is what we are doing. If that's making a story, that's what we're doing. We must sit down in a circle and find out what we together think will be best. The important thing for me is just to say that we're going beyond the ramp. We should not sit on our decorated ones, nor should we just land in a place where we say that then we wait just a little while, and then we wait for more research and for someone to come and ask for permission for some research, and then we take it up again. Because I think we've waited long enough. For me, it is also important that we act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130330	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130332	Then I would just like to say, as far as we are concerned, that we will certainly not be standing as a block for further research to be carried out. Nor have I heard anyone from the bourgeois camp say anything about such a principle being opposed to cannabis for medical use. It is just to make it clear that that view simply does not exist. There are just some of us who think that, before we start approving anything, there should be a thorough evidence that it works. We do not like to take individual products out of the normal procedure for medicinal products. That is just our position, and the rapporteur can then comment on it if she wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130411	But that has simply been noted. As I see it, there is at least a willingness in this Parliament to catch up with some research and also to allow patients to be given medical cannabis. The question is whether we can agree on how quickly this can be done and how it should be done. But I look forward to us sitting down and discussing it further. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130431	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151211130448	For today's meeting there is another review: Benny Engelbrecht (S), Pelle Dragsted (EL) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Hasteforskning nr. F 11 (What can the Minister say about the process of the housing benefits package (proposal no. 67), which is part of the 2016 Finance Law Agreement and will the Minister explain below whether the parties included in the Agreement have been informed of the impact of the Bill?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 15 December 2015, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
