ParlaMint-DK_20150512130000	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130010	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement within five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130046	Three and a half years ago, Denmark was in crisis. Now we've had growth for six quarters in a row. At that time, Denmark had lost many jobs. Now 33,000 more have got jobs in 11⁄2 years. Today, Denmark is basically a crucial new place, and in Denmark there is progress. We've got to move on, and we've got to get everybody on board. The government is going to give more people a chance to take part in this progress, which is why we want to give an extra boost to those who are furthest away from the labour market. If you have been on cash benefits for at least 1 year, you must have a job bonus of DKK 9,000. tax-free when you get to work. For many people, it is something that can really be felt. We are also continuing the solid work on improving the conditions of businesses. We need to create good jobs, and the growth that is about to bite off is going out throughout Denmark to all Danes. That is why the government has made 50 new proposals for growth and we are taking action in six areas. Firstly, it must be attractive to live in the outermost regions. That is why we want, for example. improve network access in those parts of Denmark where coverage is poor. Secondly, we want to create a better framework for operating in peripheral and rural municipalities. That is why we are making the rules of the law of plans more flexible. Thirdly, we want to ensure better opportunities for farmers and food companies with better conditions for pig and cattle production and with new capital to alleviate debt. Fourthly, we need more efficient construction and cheaper supply. Construction matters need to be dealt with more quickly and better. Electricity, gas and water must be cheaper than it would otherwise have been. Fifthly, we need to have better conditions for investment and entrepreneurs, among others. by giving companies better access to finance, both from the Growth Fund and from private investors. Sixthly, we want to remove burdens and reduce costs for businesses. After all, the government has already granted substantial tax relief. We have eased the tax on labour, reduced corporate tax, reduced energy taxes, removed driving taxes, the fat tax imposed by the previous government, and now we are building so little more upstairs. We want to eliminate excise duties, we want to lower taxes on district heating. We facilitate the tax when a company is transferred to a commercial fund and we have the money for it. But we will not spend all the money on tax cuts, because we do not want zero growth. The government has made the clear choice that we will invest in our welfare, in better health, in more research, and that is the choice we have made. The opposition has, of course, criticised the government's new growth proposals. I'm sure they will as an opposition. After all, you are not very much in favour of recognising that it is actually moving forward in Denmark, but I have to remind you that when the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party were responsible for the economy in Denmark, competitiveness fell, and I must also say that I refuse to believe that the housing job scheme, which is apparently the most important thing for the opposition leader, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, is the most important thing to do for Danish economy in the current situation. No, what matters to the progress is and remains the long, tough move • Growth Plan DK in 2013, the growth package in 2014, our 50 new proposals this year and more proposals in the coming years, if we are given the opportunity to do so. The government has shown that we can implement a responsible economic policy and that at the same time we can ensure security and well-being in Denmark. We do not want to experiment with Denmark, and there is an important dividing line in Danish politics, which I also hope we can discuss today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130457	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introductory statement. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round, the questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time and then follow two rounds where the questioner and the Prime Minister have up to 1 minute. I stress this because the last few times there has been a tendency for the debaters to have deliberately extended speaking time, not least at the beginning of Question Time. This creates an imbalance in relation to later questioners, and I must therefore make it clear now that it will not be tolerated. But we first have as a representative of IA, sir. Johan Lund Olsen asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130609	Thank you. As you know, we had a debate in this Chamber last week about the Kingdom Community, a good and exciting debate, in which we had ample opportunity to discuss opportunities and challenges for the Kingdom community. I myself mentioned that the real participation and participation of Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the Kingdom Community should be promoted, precisely in order to strengthen ties within the Kingdom Community. Along with SF, Enhedslisten and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale put forward a proposal for adoption by Inuit Ataqatigiit, which added the following sentence, and I quote: "The Danish Parliament wishes to promote the effective participation of Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the common foreign and security policy of the Kingdom of Greenland, and to ensure that uniform standards are achieved by the State in the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively. As you know, the proposal for adoption did not receive the support of the majority in this Chamber. This annoys me, especially in view of the fact that the text is in line with the law of autonomy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Kingdom Community, the Prime Minister, whether the government's lack of support for the said text in the proposal for adoption should be interpreted as the position of the government and hence the Prime Minister that the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the Kingdom should not be promoted, and that similar standards in matters handled by the State in the Faroe Islands and Greenland should not be sought.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130739	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130742	As the questioner also points out, this was precisely one of the issues we discussed last week when we had a debate on the Commonwealth, which was, moreover, a good debate. The questioner, I think, is also very aware that we have the greatest respect for the Self-Government Act... we have had it all the way through... and that is the starting point for all our actions in relation to the Commonwealth, just as the Constitution is, of course. In relation to foreign policy issues, we stress that we regularly have dialogue and exchange of information with the national leaders on the foreign policy issues of particular interest to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. So I really believe that we are complying with the obligation to have a dialogue and exchange of information on areas of particular interest to the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130834	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130838	Thank you, Prime Minister. The fact is, however, that Denmark is becoming more and more integrated into the European Union, and Denmark remains heavily bound to the European Union while Greenland, as you know, is outside. One of the government's main arguments that the service contract from Thulebasen went to an American company and not as before to a Danish-Greenland company was, and is, for example, also that the government would not challenge EU law. That is why I ask the Minister for the Kingdom Community, the Prime Minister, whether, on the basis of just one example, she agrees that Denmark must increasingly show consideration for the European Union while Greenland remains outside, and does the Prime Minister agree that this creates a further need for increased co-determination and participation for the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively in the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the Kingdom Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130927	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512130930	I think we're already doing a lot of things. We have a dialogue and we have an exchange of information with the national leaders on the foreign policy issues that affect Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and that is also what we are doing, just as we are, of course, using some energy and we would very much like to do so in defending Greenland's interests, for example. EU. There we are, as the questioner also says, the better off we are because we are a member of the European Union. There I think Denmark, for example. in relation to the WTO decision that has been made on the Inuit exemption, can be very helpful in putting the right images into place in the rest of the European Union, and we have done just that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131015	Sir. Johan Lund Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131018	It is very gratifying that we, Greenland and Denmark, in this particular case, the seal skin case in the European Union, are right to stand together. That's really good. However, we still have some shortcomings with regard to the common foreign and security policy. That is why I would also like to ask: is the 2003 Itelleq Declaration between the then Foreign Minister Per Stig Møller and the then President of the national government of Greenland, Hans Ennoksen, still in force? Because it's all about involving Greenland and the Faroe Islands for that matter... really on foreign and security policy issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131051	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131054	It is the view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and now I will not try to pronounce the Greenlandic name ■ that the declaration to which reference is made implies that the Faroe Islands and Greenland should be involved in the issues of importance to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. That is also what we are referring to. This means that it also makes a distinction between what are general foreign policy issues and what foreign policy issues concern Greenland and the Faroe Islands respectively. One of the things we have had a great debate about is what should happen if, for example, there is one. is a military contribution. The most recent debate we have had has been on how to inform Greenland and the Faroe Islands, respectively, if there is a military contribution against ISIL. It has to be said that we regard the decision as something to be taken in the Folketing. It is clear that the Faroese and Greenlandic members also have the opportunity to contribute to that debate, as well as, of course, the mention becomes involved in the kind of decisions where the Greenlandic and Faroese members also sit. Then I would like to stress that the Home Rule Government of Greenland was informed in connection with the resolution that I am now talking about. Although the decision had such a character, whether to be involved or not, it was in fact an orientation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131217	Thank you, sir. Johan Lund Olsen. Then it is Mrs Doris Jakobsen from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131231	As the Prime Minister will know, it has been a particularly important matter for Siumut to improve the possibility of using ecclesiastical services in Denmark for our Greenlandic citizens down here. Fortunately, in cooperation with the Prime Minister's Government, a scheme with a Greenlandic priest was established under the Danish system. Now I would like to ask whether it will also be possible, within the current legislation, to establish a church council with no connection to a specific parish for Greenlanders resident here. They live scattered in Denmark, but most are members of the church and therefore pay a membership fee, church tax, in the parish in which they live. After all, we have only one priest and up to 20,000 Greenlanders in Denmark, and the Greenlandic residents in Denmark pay up to 16 million. kr. in church tax in Denmark. It's a lot of priests they pay for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131339	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131342	I can easily understand that in Greenland and also in Greenland the questioner is preoccupied with these ecclesiastical questions and the possibilities for a different arrangement of the congregations. It is also an issue that I have discussed with Greenland politicians over a number of years in different contexts. However, I would now like to call for this very specific question to be put to the church minister, because she is the right person to answer the specific question of how to organise the specific congregations in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131410	Mrs. Doris Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131414	Is it the Prime Minister's view that there is a possibility of negotiating better conditions for the priesthood of the Greenlandic citizens if the Prime Minister continues after the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131424	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131428	I don't think I can say much else. I think it should be discussed with the church minister. It is the right minister to discuss ecclesiastical matters with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131433	Mrs. Doris Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131437	My second question is about the fact that I am pleased to note that, in the context of the debate on the Kingdom Community in here recently, the Prime Minister stressed the government's full support for Greenland regarding the Greenlandic catch of seals and the sale of their skins in the European Union, including the fact that the so-called inuit reservation in relation to the EU's ban on the import of seal skins is not made worse. I would like to ask how the Prime Minister will ensure that all government ministries are equally supportive in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131513	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131516	As we have also discussed many times, and rightly so, there is no doubt that the marketing of Greenlandic seal products has been difficult and seriously affected, among others. the negative campaigns against seal catches. That is also why the government, together with the national government, has worked internationally to ensure Greenland's interests in seal-catching and to tell you that seal-catching is not only a sustainable but also a legitimate profession. And we have made it clear in the European Union that the Commission must inform and eradicate the misunderstandings in relation to the EU's import ban and in relation to the Inuit exemption. So it's a job we're together to do. I am not aware that there should be no full support for this from the Danish Government. I believe that there is very much support for working together to ensure that this actually takes place in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131628	There's no more laps. Thank you to Mrs Doris Jakobsen. Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as the leader of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131644	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for this statement, which was given as a prelude to Question Time on a number of good subjects on which I would really like to discuss with the Prime Minister, even in this Chamber today, although I just need to clarify one thing: the government has made a statement on the terrible terrorist act which raises a series of questions. The Legal Affairs Committee has convened the Prime Minister in consultation. I think that in every way is the right place to take the discussion, all the time that the Prime Minister was very visible and quite naturally at the head of the government's work during the terrible days of February and, moreover, afterwards also in relation to how Denmark gives an answer to what we were exposed to. Now there is a statement which raises a number of questions, and answers must be found in a binding framework here in the Danish Parliament, and the right place is the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs. So I would just like to make sure, for the sake of good order, that the Prime Minister will, of course, make himself available for such consultation in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131804	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512131807	As Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will know, a quite firm practice has been established for which minister answers questions from the Danish Parliament in a given case, and therefore I think that the Danish Parliament is, of course, fully entitled to take an interest in this question. But practice that has been established I believe it was actually established at the time Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was Prime Minister's Minister's answer is that it is the responsible minister who answers questions about it in the Folketing. Of course, I stand here today and will answer all the questions that may be, but the practice that has been developed is not one that I, as Prime Minister, have come up with, it is actually one that I think Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has clarified to the Folketing. Of course, you can always have a debate about whether a prime minister should appear in a consultation, but I should just like to quote what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has written earlier and now I quote Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen: I believe that questions from the Danish Parliament should be answered by the minister who has been given responsibility for the area in question. ▪ Thus wrote Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in his capacity as Prime Minister when he was Prime Minister and was convened for various consultations. And then Mr. Gordon goes. Lars Løkke Rasmussen also goes on at the time and writes and I quote again: "I must stress that the fact that, for example, at a press conference, I am asked about and answer a question about a case, for example, a bill that we have dealt with at today's ministerial meeting or a major topical individual case does not mean, of course, that I assume responsibility for the case in question. So in this case, I am going to follow the practice of the former Prime Minister on this issue, and I am not going to take part in a consultation, because the questions to which the consultation relates fall within the remit of the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132003	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132008	I'm sorry. Fortunately, I have not been in a situation where I have needed to develop any firm practice on how to deal with terrorist attacks against the Danish society I have not. And the questions raised here are, of course, about how the government's internal communication works, how the Government's Security Committee works against the various authorities, so that we as Danes can feel safe if a situation like the one we experienced on 14 February should arise. It is the Prime Minister who is chairman of the Government's Security Committee, it is the Prime Minister who very visibly led the authorities' overall response to what we saw on 14 February, and that is why it should of course also be the Prime Minister who is now answering the questions that arise in the wake of the statement that we thought we should have before we politically took a position on how we should equip the police, etc. The Prime Minister will not do so in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, and I am sorry, and then I will have to use Question Time here instead. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister when the Prime Minister became aware that no immediate guard was established at the synagogue in Krystalgade after the terror battle against the Krudtønde.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132123	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132126	I think, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen came to express himself a little wrong, for it is Lars Løkke Rasmussen who, as Prime Minister, has established a practice for when a prime minister consults. I have, in fact, just continued the practice that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as prime minister has established. The good thing is that you also felt the urge to what I thought was a good idea to write it down, and that is exactly the practice I have pursued. That is why I can only take it as an expression of the fact that it is an election year and so much is said. But that is why there should actually be the same standard for the former Prime Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, as there is for the present Prime Minister. We can take a long time to discuss when to consult and when not to consult, but the bottom line of this is that I have followed former Prime Minister Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's fundamental positions in this area. That's the way it is. And should Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will be Prime Minister another time, I think that these guidelines will actually continue. So I refer the whole debate on whether or not I will be acting in consultation to be the kind of thing that takes place in an election year. That's the way it is. Now the President is standing up, but I would very much like to answer the second question, so I hope it will be asked again.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132242	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132245	Well, of course I'll ask that again. This is the same standard, you can set the standards you want to set yourself. I, for example, stood up. available to critical questions from the daily press every Tuesday. That was the standard. You don't have it anymore. I agree with the Prime Minister that, as Prime Minister, we should not, of course, go into all kinds of consultation, in relation to issues for which another minister is responsible. But that is not what we are talking about here. This is something extraordinary: a terrorist attack, an act of terror on Danish soil, which shook Denmark as a whole and which tests, it can be said, the response of our authorities and the ability of our authorities to cooperate and the ability and willingness of the government to have a sufficiently effective political response that can provide proper and true response. It's the PM's responsibility. I do not think there were any of them who followed in those days who had a different experience of the Prime Minister than that she took that responsibility on her. Now there is a statement that raises a number of critical issues and the Prime Minister will have to deal with it. The right thing would be I would have done that myself. But now I ask here: when did the Prime Minister become aware that, as the Prime Minister announced to the international press, there was no provision for guarding at the synagogue immediately after the attack on the Krudtænde?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132419	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132420	I think it is right to ask these questions on this issue too, because this is something that is very much in the public debate. So, of course, there is good reason for that. I also have the urge to remind you, in this serious matter, of some important issues. Firstly, I think it is important to say, when we are discussing the terrorist attack on Denmark, that an excellent police work was carried out in those days. This was done both by the ordinary police, but also by PET. You were ready, you had the alert, and you're gonna take out the perpetrator the night between Saturday and Sunday. It's good police work. It's one thing that's important. The second important thing is that there is guarding at the crime scenes both times. Not just at the powder keg, but primarily, you might say, at the synagogue there is guard when the perpetrator enters the scenes. The third is that we have been very careful to have an evaluation. The police have now carried out, I think, a very open and very self-critical evaluation, and there are learning points based on the evaluation that we are now taking care of. One of the things everyone agrees on is that too long time passed from the shootings at the Krudtøden until guarding was established at the synagogue. So to the question I am asked: No, I am quite recently in connection with the completion of the evaluation carried out by the police and it has also been explained by the Ministry of Justice that almost 4 hours have passed since there had been shootings at the Krudtunden until guarding was established at the synagogue. At the time when I am answering that question at the international press conference, we have got a picture that the guard is coming faster than the four hours we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132616	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132619	Does this mean that until a few days ago the Prime Minister has hung in it, yes, delusion, is it true that the police were present with increased guard at the synagogue in Krystalgade immediately after the terror attack on the Krudtænden?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132637	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132640	Yeah, that's right. I was only aware, when this evaluation was completed, that they had not actually been there until four hours later. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132650	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132653	So the Prime Minister answered yes to the question, which was: Up until a few days ago, the Prime Minister, in the delusion, hung that immediate extra guard was established at the synagogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132707	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132711	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132714	I have to say that I am puzzled for several reasons. As a general interest in this case, I myself used a little effort on Monday after the terror battle Saturday and the night to Sunday to visit injured officers at the Kingdom Hospital, talk to people in the environment around the synagogue, and it was quite clear to me already there that there were some failures. That is also the reason why my party was so insistent that things should be taken in the right order and that we should now have a statement and have clarity about what worked and what did not work before we started the political discussions on what the reply would be. I don't really have to ask you anything. I would just say here with great surprise that until a few days ago the Prime Minister of the country hung in the delusion that immediate reinforced guarding was established around the synagogue. It could then raise the last more general question, namely whether the Prime Minister, in the light of the fact that it was only so late that one really got clear as to how the world was connected, feels that sufficient comforting workflows have been ensured across the various ministries and around the Government's Security Committee, so that we as Danes can feel safe if something terrible like what we experienced should happen again • god forbid it • and that the next time we act quickly on the basis of factually correct information.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132900	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512132903	It is quite true that in this matter it has been very, very difficult for the opposition to keep a cool head. Because that's what it takes. It has been very difficult for the opposition to recognise that first the investigation should take place, then we should have a thorough evaluation, and then, of course, we should have some learning points out of it. As I recall this case, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and others about while the investigation took place, while a great many policemen were involved in the investigation of the case itself, that now there was to be an evaluation immediately. But simply asked that the investigators put their work on the investigation aside and start the evaluation. There was the very clear recommendation of the government: let the investigation now take place in good order, and then let us have a thorough evaluation of the matter. And that is precisely what we have been given: a thorough evaluation in which the police provide self-critical and honest information about what has happened so that everyone can go in and see what has happened, but also in relation to the specific learning points there are. And that means, of course, that we will have the opportunity to do things better in the future. In relation to the security of the Jewish institutions, additional security has already been established, and funding has also been found for this. And it is only because the Left and others did not want to be involved that we could not plan how the police should be strengthened in the coming years. So it is true that the Left and the opposition have had a very difficult time keeping their heads in this matter and have asked that the police solve tasks that it was not right for them to solve at that time, but that the government has just said: the investigation first, then the evaluation, and then there are some learning points; we deal with them and act on them and also allocate the means to deal with them and act on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133052	Thank you, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as Chairman of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133107	Thank you for that, President. Of course, I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. But I must also say that I am a little concerned with the discussions we are having right now about the terrible terrorist attack that took place in Denmark back in February and the reactions to it. And I also think it is so important that we get to the bottom of how things have been handled, because it is true, as has just been said, that it is also essential for the Danes' confidence and security in that things are as they should be. Now we have some information on the matter, and I think there are some things that stick. The Prime Minister recognizes, as I read, that misleading information has been given to the Danes and also to the international press who were present, on the one hand, the security of the Jewish institutions, and, on the other hand, the timing of the actual police presence at the synagogue on the day after the shooting at the Krudttkunden. At the same time, we also know from the correspondence that has been and has been provided to the public that there has been intense activity among officials, in relation to misleading information being provided to Parliament, to the public, etc. Therefore, I just think it is important that the Prime Minister, who after all refers many questions about this to the Minister for Justice, should also take on his responsibilities and respond readily to the various questions on this matter. It is difficult for us to consider that the Prime Minister and, for that matter, the Minister of Justice will not know until last week that misinformation has taken place. In other words, why on earth should officials in the systems sit on information that wrong information is being supplied? Why should they not say these things to the ministers responsible? It seems amazing. But it is clear that these are some things we would like to discuss with the Prime Minister. That is why my question to the Prime Minister here is: Did the situation of lack of information that the Prime Minister says she was exposed to in this case so that she did not receive this information about the misinformation until last week, nor did the Prime Minister's office have the information that the Prime Minister, at the press conference of international journalists, had supplied the public with misleading information?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133330	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133334	I'm gonna make a note of that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl puts words in my mouth that I have not really used, and that would suit Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to stop doing that. I think it is also important that in this discussion we remember what is really important. I know it's election year, and I know you want to talk about so many other things, but the most important thing in this case is that the open police and PET did a really good job of police work that day. They caught the perpetrator, they neutralized the perpetrator, and they did a good investigation, both in the hours around it, but also in the days and weeks thereafter. It was good and solid police work. That's the first thing. The second, which is of course important, is that there was established guarding around the synagogue at the time of the crime. I also think it is absolutely crucial that this was the case. The third is that an evaluation has now been carried out, which is, of course, crucial to whether we can learn from the situation we have faced. That evaluation has different learning points. One of the things everyone agrees on is that too long time passed from the shooting at the Krudtønde to the establishment of guarding around the synagogue. What then is the next question, which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also asks, is: What did I know when I gave the international press a briefing? And, of course, I knew what I was saying. I had been given the photo that there was a quick guard after the gunfire at the Krudtønde. That is what I said; why should I say otherwise? Moreover, there were also in the hours and the days thereafter, if for example. PET had known that it was different from what I said at the press conference, ample opportunity to correct that case. It didn't happen, and it then meant that it was only when you were finishing this evaluation, that I became aware that it was not actually a very quick establishment of safety around the synagogue, but that it took almost 4 hours, which is of course too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133538	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133542	Well, I didn't think we had to repeat to each other that we're very happy with the work the police and PET have done and so on. We have repeated this to each other in the weeks following the attacks. We are now in the process of making the statement that has been given to find out whether the government has also been aware of its responsibilities and done the things that were necessary to get done. We have had a long discussion about the Jewish institutions and, we think, the lack of security for the Jewish institutions, despite the fact that we have repeatedly asked for better protection. Then we are told something about what we do not feel safe about, and that is why, of course, we keep asking questions about it. Some of the things I saw asking the Prime Minister about here in the first round and not getting an answer to, I would like to repeat. It is about the lack of knowledge that the Prime Minister had until last week about the misinformation that is being given to the people about when one is present at the synagogue on the day of these fatal things happening. Is it also misinformation which, moreover, is in the Prime Minister's Office, or is the Prime Minister's Office, that is, the officials of the Prime Minister's Office, informed of the actual things they have done? What I am looking for is of course to find out where this misinformation ends, because there is no doubt that the system knows when there is actually physical guarding at the synagogue. So is it in the Justice Department that it stops, or is the information passed to the Prime Minister's Office, but just not the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133705	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133708	A few things. I feel absolutely convinced that if anyone around me in the Prime Minister's Office had known that what I said at the press conference was not correct, then I would have been told, just as there was an opportunity in the days following the press conference held with the international press, that PET could correct if what I had said was not correct. But we were brought with us a picture that it went quickly with the establishment of guarding at the synagogue. It didn't. But the most important thing in this case is that there was guarding at the time of the crime. It may be that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl finds it unnecessary to put a thick line under the fact that very good police work was done in connection with this attack. I don't think so. I think it is very important to emphasise that both the open police and the PET did very well in the days around the terrorist attack. I think that is important to be told in this difficult situation as well. Compared to this, whether there was an increase in guarding around the synagogue in the post-attacks in Paris, I just need to emphasize for the record because there have also been some misunderstandings in the press that increased guarding was established around the Jewish institutions in the post-Paris period. I am not the one who says that; that is what the Commissioner for Police says in Copenhagen. Moreover, the evaluation also states that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133838	Last round. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512133841	Thank you. In other words, we are now aware that there has been a correspondence among the officials at least about this that the information provided to the international press corps was not correct. What may be surprising is what motive such officials should have for not going further in the system and ensuring that the errors were corrected? That is what seems quite baroque, that is, that they should have an interest in saying: Well, the misinformation that has happened, we pack up, and then we hope that no one will discover it. That is certainly not what I believe about the Danish official stand. Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister another way: is it really right that this should also be included in what the Prime Minister says that in the days after this terrible weekend in Copenhagen the Prime Minister has not, although she is chairman of the Government's Security Committee, sat down and hour by hour reviewed with her people what had happened at the main institutions, the most important places in Copenhagen, where things were going on? You haven't sat down and done that because if you had done it, you'd know what happened at the synagogue and when what happened. That is what Denmark as a whole was interested in knowing. It said in the newspapers: what happened there, paragraph 2 there, paragraph 3 there. It was awful to have to see all the time. Has the Prime Minister not, as chairman of the Government's Security Committee, had a séance in which she sat down with the most important people in connection with these events and reviewed hour by hour what had happened in those days, when the police were present and how the security had been of among others. the Jewish institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134004	Prime Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134007	Now I don't quite know what sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl refers to the fact that errors have been pointed out and there actually isn't. The Ministry of Justice sends my statements to PET, which, in relation to the point which relates to this, does not actually have any comments on whether there has been a guard at the synagogue. That is then in the specific quotation, in relation to whether there has been increased guarding after Paris. It is PET who says that it is misleading, but it is not after all because the Copenhagen Police Commissioner says very clearly afterwards that there has been increased guarding, which can also be read. So stop saying that there has been disinformation ■ there has actually been no such thing. In relation to the issue of whether to create a timeline, I can say that after this terrorist attack, we were most concerned that the police were given the opportunity to investigate the case. I don't think so, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl or Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen understands what a major task the police had in investigating the case. What we knew and what the public knew at the time was the important thing: a great police work was carried out these days. There had been guarding at the times when the perpetrator had found himself, both at the powder keg and at the synagogue. That is, and remains, the most important thing. We were aware at that time that the police should have time to investigate the matter and that, of course, at a later stage we would have an evaluation and thus also some concrete learning points. That's what we've got now, and from there we can act on this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134138	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr as head of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134145	I think it is good that we have received a thorough and informative statement from the Minister for Justice. I think it is important right now, and I would urge my fellow Members to do so, that we keep the focus on the matter and do not make a political mess of it here. So on a completely different subject. Indeed, I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has indicated on several occasions the need for improvements in our unemployment benefit system. I also believe that the more than 54,000 who have fallen out of the benefit system, and the thousands of Danes who are on the verge of falling out, are. At the Social Democratic Congress in the autumn, the Prime Minister said, and now I quote: our opposition to the unemployment benefit reform is heartfelt. In the New Year's speech a few months later, the Prime Minister said that far too many people have used up their benefit rights. And again, on 1 May, it was said that the recovery rules must be rethought. At the same time, the Prime Minister also stated that there are 0 DKK. for improvements to the daily allowance rules; 0 DKK to the improvements which the Prime Minister has on several occasions pointed out the need for time and again; 0 DKK, while the Prime Minister finds billions for business. That, in my opinion, and the SF's view, is a hugely skewed priority. That is why I would like the Prime Minister to lift a little of the veil over the direction in which the Socialists will draw in the forthcoming negotiations on a new unemployment benefit system and how the Prime Minister envisages real improvements to be made without a single new crown being added.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134317	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134320	That's absolutely right. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is urging a little caution in the matter we discussed earlier. I think that is very sensible. Compared to the benefit discussion, everyone knows that it was the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party that, just before the election, reduced the daily allowance. Since then, the rest of us have had to clean up after that. We have spent in the vicinity of 4 billion. kr. to repair the damage caused by the reform that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl came up with a late night lesson. The fact that you didn't know if you would be out of support has caused a lot of concern in many Danish homes, I think. But then it is a good thing that we have had a government which has ensured that there has actually been a subsidy. It has cost a lot of money, but it has been worth the money, because it has also provided more security in many Danish homes in a very concrete way. I think we need to have a new benefit system, but we also need to think very carefully about this time. There should be no hoofsa solutions that you come up with at some late evening hour, and so we have asked a commission to look at this question: How can you get a more robust benefit system where fewer people fall out of the benefit system but who do not cost more? Because we only have the money we have. That is the task we have asked a commission to look at. I really hope that when we get the result from this commission, a large number of parties in the Folketing will come together and find a new benefit system in agreement, so that we also ensure security and robustness about the future benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134501	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134505	There is no doubt that it was the Left, the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left who voted in favour of the unemployment benefit reform, and I understand that the Radical Left is fighting to maintain the unemployment benefit reform they have themselves voted for. But if you look at it and want to change the benefit reform, you can see that it costs money either to change the recovery requirement or to look at the length of the benefit period if you do not want to take the money from others in the benefit system at the same time. If you want to say that you are going to spend another year and spend the money on something else, you can, of course, keep it within the system, and I think the Radical Left will certainly be involved in that, I hope the Socialists will not be. I have to ask the Prime Minister: if the Prime Minister can now find billions for business in the context of the growth initiatives and completely refuse to return more money in advance in order to restore security in the labour market and improve the unemployment benefit system, what is reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134601	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134605	Now, unfortunately, we have not found billions for the business community in this time-- we have done so in the past with our growth packages, and fortunately some of them have also been a part of that, and I think that is a good thing. When we want to change the law on plans a little in order to provide better opportunities, to deregulate rules that are no longer needed, and to provide tax relief in some of the areas that companies are asking for, it is precisely about something that people on unemployment benefits are interested in, namely jobs. So everything we do in terms of tax relief, easy regulation, easy planning, basically has one headline that not only the government is concerned with, but also that the unemployed are concerned with, namely more jobs. That is what this is all about, and that is why I really think that the best benefit system is that enough jobs are created in Denmark. So you cannot spend all the money on the benefit system; you also have to spend some of the money on actually creating some of the jobs that the unemployed demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134712	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134715	The SF has helped create the 33,000 new jobs that the Prime Minister started talking about, and we are thus concerned about creating more jobs. We put forward a growth plan before the government did it, where we put in place that one among other things. could look at climate adaptation in the municipalities that one could support the Mårbjergværket at Holstebro, just to mention two initiatives. All in all, this was something that would create 8,500 new jobs. When you look at the government's growth initiatives, you can see that, according to the Ministry of Finance, they create zero new jobs. That is why I am thinking that instead of being spent on tax reliefs and exemption from excise duties and other appropriate measures, the money spent could have been spent on an allowance solution. For what is crucial in the area of unemployment benefit? I mean, it's like people feel safe. This applies not only to those who are in the benefit system and have lost their jobs, but also to some of those who are outside the benefit system, i.e. those who are actually at work today, but who feel insecure and do not know whether there is a safety net that grabs them and therefore do not dare to change jobs and be as mobile or spend money. They save instead of saving up, which is why we are not getting growth going. So basically I can't understand it... but the Prime Minister will probably make me smarter now... because we don't want to make money or anything... we just want to say: let's make a fair benefit solution so that people feel safe while creating jobs. Will the Prime Minister prefer to spend the money on business tax relief, or will the Prime Minister also ensure security in our labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134841	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134846	We do both. The unemployment benefit system we now have is not working satisfactorily. There are too many people who fall out, there is not enough security, that is not robust enough, and that is also why we need a new benefit system. That is why, I think, there is now no need for hovsa proposals or solutions that you just find huh hello. We need to think about how we can create a new benefit system which we do not spend more money on, but which is better because it gives more security to the unemployed because fewer people fall out and it creates more security. That's the job. Is it easy? No, it is not, and that is why we have also set up a commission to assist with it. Then I have to say that I do not quite understand this picture that is being drawn, that they are reliefs, for example. tax incentives we give to business are just tax cuts to business. As I see it, it is about creating jobs, and that is why it is the best that can be done for the unemployed. After all, the best thing to do in relation to the benefit system is to spend a great deal of energy and money when necessary to create a good framework for business so that they have the opportunity to create more jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512134956	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as leader of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135007	I would like to start by saying that the electoral system which the right-wing party is trying to run on the very, very tragic events that happened in Copenhagen seems to me to be inconvenient. In the Enhedslisten we are not afraid to correct criticism, either by ministers or governments, if there is a basis for it. This has also happened earlier in this parliamentary term. But with the information we now have, there is absolutely no indication that the Prime Minister or anyone else in the government has deliberately passed on information that was wrong. We have historical other examples of this. There were Anders Fogh's lies about weapons of mass destruction. There were Søren Gade's lies about prisoners in Iraq. I can promise that Enhedslisten will strike when that happens. However, as I have said, there is no indication in this case of the information which has been produced that there is deliberate disclosure of information which is wrong. As I said, I actually think this case is so serious that I find it deeply inconvenient of the right-wing party to run fucks on it. I want to ask you something else. I'm gonna ask about sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's unemployment benefit disaster and I would like to quote the Prime Minister: we have the money we have. The daily allowance system must not become more expensive. We have the money we have. That is what the Prime Minister said on 1 May in front of many thousands of people in the Common Park. And that's true: you can't spend a lot of money. Then a few days went by. Then it turned out that the Prime Minister still did not have the money the Prime Minister had, because the Prime Minister had just found a few hundred million extras for tax rebates for some large companies. It was something about excise duties; it was tax rebates for oil companies; it was a number of other reductions in corporate taxes. And 610 million. kr. is actually quite a lot of money. For the same amount, according to the government's own figures and calculations, the recovery period could be reduced by half to a daily allowance. We have previously seen the Prime Minister and the government spend 4 billion. kr. on tax reliefs, although according to the Prime Minister's own calculations there are virtually no jobs out of it. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is it really the Prime Minister's view that this priority is wise, that is, that you have a round and resounding zero to solve the unemployment benefit disaster, while you have billions of dollars for tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135241	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135245	First of all, I would like to sign for the opening words of Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. I thought that was very wise. In relation to the allowance, I would like to say that it is probably important to remember that, and I know that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen knows that, because she has helped to make the decisions herself • that we have done a great deal to ensure the safety of the people who were caught up in Mr Schmidt's speech. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's unemployment benefit reform. We've spent about 4 billion. kr. to ensure that people should not sit out in the Danish homes and be too insecure. They shouldn't be unsure if they had a trust fund. 4 billion kr. is a great deal of money, even in times of crisis, and I am pleased that we have spent that money on mitigating the negative consequences of the Thulesen Dahl reform. It was important and it was true that we did it. In the future, it must be the case that we do not have people hanging on daily allowances. They need to work as quickly as possible. That is, of course, what they want, but it is also what society wants. So I do not think the solution lies in the fact that we just need a much more expensive allowance system and that every penny we have left must go to make our benefit system more expensive. On the contrary, I believe that we need to find a good balance where we have a good and secure benefit system, which, of course, still costs a great deal of money, but where we also use some of the free funds we have, on the one hand, for tax cuts for companies, when it can help create growth and jobs, and, on the other hand, for good welfare in our society too. These are the balances that the government is concerned with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135421	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135424	It is absolutely right that we have done something together for the people who fell out of the benefit system. It was uphill, but something has been done. But the help that has come is temporary. The money that has been set aside is temporary, but the problem that Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Lars Løkke Rasmussen created is permanent. When the Prime Minister finds money for corporate tax relief or top tax incentives or now new discounts to business, it is also permanent money. I simply cannot understand that priority. You can find billions of dollars to distribute to people who already have, and there can be zero kroner to solve the unemployment benefit problem. Before the last elections, the Socialists said that the reduction of about 2.5 billion. kr., as sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Kristian Thulesen Dahl completed, would be cancelled crown by crown, it was said. What happened to that promise, Prime Minister? And does the Prime Minister really believe that Kristian Thulesen Dahl's unemployment benefit disaster can be solved for zero kroner?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135538	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135541	I believe that what we see in Danish politics right now is that Enhedslisten and SF believe that every available crown we have should go to the benefit system. Then we have the bourgeois parties led by the Left, who believe that every available crown should go for tax relief. Within the two extremes, we have the government. We've spent almost 4 billion. kr. to mitigate the negative consequences of the Kristian Thulesen Dahl reform and we want tax cuts to be granted to companies. We have also given tax relief to ordinary employees. At the same time, we want there to be available crowns for our welfare as well. I know I agree with Enhedslisten on that. So we stand for a balance which, on the one hand, provides good conditions for businesses and, on the other hand, protects the unemployed from the worst consequences of the unemployment benefit reform, but also allows us to develop our welfare in the years to come. It is, of course, a balance that is natural to us, namely that we must be able to accommodate everything. And if I may give a little self-esteem, I would say that I believe it is the strength of this government that we have everything: good framework conditions for our businesses, including tax incentives, where necessary, focusing on the unemployed by 4 billion. kr. and focus on welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135710	Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135714	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has such a discussion behind my back that I forgot to mention one and the other. Then I would just like to say that there should be no doubt that it was both Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who was responsible for the cash benefits reform. Then there was one who was sorry not to be named with Mr, and for that and for Mr. Then I would say to the Prime Minister that the Prime Minister is talking about balance, but the Prime Minister says that you will spend zero dollars on the unemployment benefit disaster. Some money has been spent, and they were temporary. Forward-looking to solve the permanent problem you will use zero crowns. On the other hand, billions of dollars have been spent on top tax relief and corporate tax relief. They're permanent. The Ministry of Finance's own figures show that there are virtually no jobs out of it. What's the balance in that? It's zero crowns, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135820	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135823	We attach enormous importance to what the companies are saying to us, because we must also remember that if private jobs are to be created in Denmark, what the companies are saying is important. That is why we have implemented two major growth packages, one of which also contained 1 billion. kr. for adult and continuing training, but there were tax cuts to the business sector. Why? Because they must have good framework conditions so that they can create jobs. And the most important thing for the unemployed must of course be the creation of jobs. I don't think the benefits system is the most important thing. I think the most important thing is that there is a job to be done if you become unemployed. That is why we must and must have a situation in which we do not spend every penny available on our unemployment benefit system, but where we also spend some of the money we have to create good conditions for businesses so that they can create jobs for the unemployed. That is the balance we believe is important in Denmark. We have Enhedslisten and SF, who believe that each available crown should be used on our daily allowance system. We have the bourgeois parties led by the Left and the Liberal Alliance, who believe that every available crown should be used for tax relief. And then we have the government in the middle, which believes that a sensible balance must be struck: good framework conditions for businesses, including tax relief when necessary, and that year by year we are putting aside money so that we can also develop our common welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512135946	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Sir. Anders Samuelsen as leader of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140001	Thank you. What we have then been given clarification so far about the terrorist case and the information that has flown to the Prime Minister is that from that e-mail came in immediately before the Prime Minister's press conference with the international press with a clarification that there had not been the upgrading of the manning immediately after the terrorist attack, and so until a few days ago, the Prime Minister has been told nothing about that relationship. Can the Prime Minister not try to explain how it is possible that this information will not reach the Prime Minister? What are some procedures that have been in the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Justice that make such important information for so many weeks not reach the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140055	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140059	I understand perfectly well that in an election year, the opposition must make it the most important thing in the case of terrorism, but it is not. What is most important in connection with the terrorist case is if you just move up a little bit and are not stuck in the fact that you are in opposition and that it is election year and all sorts of other things is that a very good police work is being carried out in these days; it is that the perpetrator is being caught during the night between Saturday and Sunday, and that robust and good police work is being carried out, both by the ordinary police and by PET. I do not think it should be overshadowed by the fact that we have had a picture in the days following the terrorist attack, which is not entirely correct. So the first and most important thing is that good police work is done. The second thing that I think is important is that, as soon as the perpetrator arrives at the powder keg and at the synagogue, the police are present. There is increased guarding at the synagogue, and we can only imagine that it could have gone much worse if there had been no increased guarding. So it's also important to remember. The third thing that is important in this context is that we also decided very early that the investigation should begin first, and then we should have a thorough evaluation of what happened these days. We've got that now. We have received a very frank evaluation of what happened with a number of learning points that we can now proceed with. One of the learning points is that there is too much time between the shooting at the Krudtønde until guarding is established at the synagogue. After all, everyone agrees that this is too long and that it should not be so forward-looking if something like this should happen. So it's been dealt with in this case. There are learning points that we are now moving forward with. This is one of them. There are several others, and all this can be read in the evaluation carried out by the police themselves. Some of these things have been dealt with, for example. increased guarding at the Jewish institutions. After all, money has now been set aside for further guarding. So again I would like to say that I understand that the opposition must bring all this, but the important thing is that the police were there when the perpetrator was there and that a very good police work was done by both ordinary police and PET.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140319	Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140321	I did not get an answer to my question, but I was reminded that it is important that action was taken and that it is important that things did not go worse than they did and so on. We agree on that, there is no problem at all. It may well be that the Prime Minister does not think that it is essential in what way the Prime Minister is informed and that we are informed quickly and accurately, even when, for erroneous reasons, a Prime Minister has come to say something wrong at a press conference, thereby giving everyone else in the public an erroneous idea of what happened. It may well be that the Prime Minister does not think it is important, but I would just like to say for myself that it is really, really important, and I think it is also important for the rest of the Danish population, that is to say to have a feeling that there are some procedures that work in the Prime Minister's Office, that a prime minister is not held up knowingly or unconsciously, hopefully unconsciously, but that is why we need to have a clarification of what has happened about what has happened. As Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen correctly pointed out that there were all sorts of stories going on already a few hours later. I myself have also heard detours through the Jewish environment that things were not in place in the same way as the Prime Minister has said. So I ask again whether the Prime Minister will try to explain this, because hopefully the Prime Minister has asked how on earth it could happen that the Prime Minister did not get that information and got the information right away, at least immediately after that press conference.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140448	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140452	First of all, I am very pleased that it has now been recognised that I provided information at the international press conference based on the picture we had received in the days following the attack. Everyone now understands that, and everyone agrees, and I think that is very good. The second, which I think everyone now understands, is that we were then given a different picture in connection with the completion of the statement. It is also good that it is established. I understand that you should be interested in when we got what information, but the important thing in this case is that the police were there guarding the synagogue when the perpetrator appeared. That's what's important in this case. The second important thing is that a very thorough evaluation has now been carried out. We can all set a timeline in relation to this, and we can also act and take responsibility that the next time something like this should happen • if it ever happens • then we are better prepared. That is the correct way to do things, that is to say to look at things thoroughly, as to how the timeline was, and then to establish what we should do forward-lookingly, and that is what the government naturally assumes responsibility for.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140605	Sir. Anders Samuelsen in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140608	I didn't get an answer the other time either. It must be the case that the Prime Minister has asked to explain how it could end up all those days, all those weeks, before that information has come to the attention of the Prime Minister, which the Prime Minister should have had almost before the press conference, because the e-mail was ticked in, but at least immediately after the press meeting, in mid-February. What we have to build on now in the Danish Parliament is then the government's investigation into the situation, and there we have to say that as late as this morning new information has emerged, so I think that we are approaching a situation, and I would ask if the Prime Minister would be willing to agree to this, which reminds us of the one we have seen from Norway and from Australia, where, immediately after, an independent committee of inquiry was chosen, so that we could really get to the bottom of what was going on. One thing is that, as the Prime Minister also said at the press conference and in the days following that, it has to be said that in a mix of luck and skillful police work etc., one was actually present when the man arrived. But what is behind it, the procedures that are taking place inside the Prime Minister's Office, has not been informed, and the Prime Minister does not seem to want to give them up voluntarily, so I would like to ask: can we have an independent committee of inquiry? I think we have reached where we need to have an independent commission of inquiry into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140729	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140732	I think that's a bad idea, and I just want to point out that it's not lucky that they're there because the perpetrator is there. Why do you have to talk so badly about the police and PET? They were there when the perpetrator was there. They did good police work during that night, and they rendered the perpetrator harmless. It's not luck. We are talking about good police work, and why can we not recognise it? They were there when the perpetrator was there. Then there is a question of whether we have got a picture that is not correct, and of course the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Justice must have the picture that is correct, but the important thing in this case is that a clear picture of the matter has now been presented. Now you can carefully evaluate the case, now you can learn from this case, and now the government, of course, what we do, must take responsibility for bringing these learning points into action. The government will, of course, do the same. Once again, I have to say that I understand that in an election year the opposition must find all sorts of things, but it is quite simply wrong to claim that in the afternoon of the day when I held the international press conference in the Prime Minister's Office, we should have known that this was different from the timeline. That is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140850	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512140900	I think it is really a pity that when we are asked about this terrorist statement and the new information that comes out in the light, we are immediately told campaigning and campaigning. The only real issue is that there are a number of parties that would actually like to ask for some answers. And right now it is not possible to get an answer because the Prime Minister says that it is the minister responsible, that is to say the trade minister, who has to answer. The Minister of Justice refuses to consult and explain the question of who knew when. And the Minister for Justice said yesterday at a meeting where I myself took part as a legal rapporteur that this was a matter for the Prime Minister, because it was a matter for the Security Committee, and that is why it had to be the Prime Minister who replied exactly to this. This means that we are in a situation where neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Justice will answer, where they point the arrow against each other and in fact also play each other out a little against each other • which I think is quite unsympathetic and unsympathetic and so we cannot have any discussion or discussion about what happened when. That is why I would just like to ask: who will the government end up having to take the discussions that we want politically on top of the statement that came last week?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141014	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141016	Now I have done quite a lot here today in Parliament's Question Time, and I am very pleased to be able to answer those questions. And, of course, there will also be a consultation in which the Minister of Justice will take part. It's quite natural, since it's her resort. So, of course, we're going to answer questions from the Folketing in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141032	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141033	It sounds good if it is that the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister are beginning to coordinate now, because that has not been the case, in that the Prime Minister has certainly not been informed of the process and has thereby led the entire Danish population and the Danish Parliament into the misapprehension that action was taken immediately afterwards. Then I would like to ask about PET, because the Prime Minister said in one of his answers that PET could correct the information that had been provided. Now it is so that it has actually become quite difficult to get some answers out of PET. Yesterday, as I said, all the legal rapporteurs were invited to meet with the relevant authorities, but the Minister for Justice had decided that PET should not attend that meeting, so we could not get any response from PET at that meeting. At the same time, last week, we saw how the head of Special Branch resigned a few hours before a press conference. Is this a good democratic way of having a good discussion about the evaluation where you can see that a number of mistakes have been made? In fact, when you have to have the opportunity to ask questions about it, you do not really have to ask the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141142	Wait a minute. Now I have to ask, as I have done before, that the conversations only start after we finish Question Time. The conversations that are going on can interfere. There are 10 minutes left, so I would ask that there be silence in the Chamber. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141201	Thank you, President. Mrs Mai Mercado is messing things up a little, because it has always been clear that of course the Minister of Justice would come and answer questions in consultation. It is quite natural that the Folketing is interested in this matter, and it is also quite natural that the Minister for Justice, as she does so often, should answer questions about this matter. Nor do I fully recognize the fact that it would be difficult to get an answer to what has happened in this case. A very honest evaluation of the whole process has just been published, where you have a number of learning points that you are now moving on to. And I do not even recognize the picture that, as Mrs Mai Mercado says, mistakes should have been made. No mistakes have been made. It is precisely that the basic substance or the basis of all this is that the ordinary police and PET have done a very good job of police work. I am worried that the whole debate which the opposition is trying to start now is going to shy away from the fact that a very solid and good piece of police work has actually been carried out in the hours surrounding the attacks and, of course, also when the perpetrator is caught. And that's the most important thing in this case. Then there are some learning points. Everyone agrees that one should have been quicker guarding the synagogue after the shootings at the Krudtøden, and that is, of course, one of the learning points that we are moving forward with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141321	Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado for the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141324	I think you have to be a super-optimistic social democrat, not to say that it is a mistake for the Prime Minister to be informed himself only two and a half months after the Prime Minister's office has received this information. In fact, we are in a situation where there are a number of parties that would like to discuss the whole evaluation with a view to getting the right initiatives to ensure that we secure the country against terrorism. The government has, of course, led the way in cutting PET's budgets, and we can see that in the evaluation, among other things. It says that new concepts need to be developed, but that it actually says that the concepts that you have had have not worked as intended. Understand me that I would in no way criticise PET today. I couldn't believe it. But that must be a political responsibility, and I would just like to ask: when it is that the government has cut those budgets, is it also expected that PET will be able to fulfil the great task of securing the country against terrorism? Are we absolutely convinced that the basic structures which must be in place and which we could see were under pressure will work with new methods and new concepts?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141437	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141441	Now we have a common police settlement. This is the first part of what Mrs Mai Mercado is somewhat forgetting in her question. However, an additional allocation has just been approved here in the Danish Parliament, and it has been prepared in close dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and the National Police, in relation to what may be needed. And if you read the evaluation carefully I am sure that Mrs Mai Mercado has done so you will also see that some of the learning points have actually acted and taken responsibility at this stage. So I think that both the National Police and the Ministry of Justice have had full attention to ensuring that there are sound solutions in relation to the police being able to carry out their overall tasks. What I am disappointed with in this context, if one can talk about it, is that the opposition will first try to prevent the police from carrying out their investigation work by demanding evaluations at a time that is not in order, and secondly has delayed more money being given to the police in order to secure the Jewish community. After all, it was the opposition who deliberately delayed the granting of that money. If only it had been done quickly, far earlier there would have been certainty that the police and the PET could carry out their duties even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141559	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk as head of the Alternative. And I'm still gonna have to ask you to calm down in the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141609	I will take the discussion a little in a different direction. The questions I have are about health care and the health system. When you talk to our good employees out there, nurses and doctors, you get a clear picture of a health system that is under massive pressure, and if you talk to the responsible politicians, most recently Bent Hansen, they say that we are facing drastic priorities, possibly cuts, and there is no doubt that we are facing a problem that we have to deal with. Of course, one of the sources of the economic situation we are facing is that the cost of our medicines is rising and rising almost uncontrollably, and the consequence is that you start cutting down and firing health professionals and you close down departments. Of course, we are concerned about that. One of the solutions that we can see is to introduce a proper priority institute which can go in and advise and guide us politicians in these very difficult priorities. We can see that Norway and Sweden, which are countries with which we normally compare ourselves, have introduced it, and the alternative suggests that a priority institute be set up. So my first question to the Prime Minister is actually about what the Prime Minister thinks of the idea of a health priority institute. Secondly, what do we do about the almost explosive increase in the cost of more expensive and more expensive medicines?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141744	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141746	Basically about the Danish health care system, I would say that it is the case that the government is in the process of developing the Danish healthcare system, and we have actually spent a great deal of money on this. This also means that we decided in 2015 for the Finance Act that we will invest a total of 6.5 billion. kr. over the next year, i.e. from 2015-2018. On top of that comes the funds for health that we have agreed through previous agreements with the regions and municipalities. It is, of course, money that patients will benefit from in the coming years. It is money that, of course, you do not have if you have zero growth in the public sector. What I think is important in this context is that it has also meant that there have actually been more employees in the Danish health service. This is one of the areas where more employees have arrived, and I think that is important to bear in mind. I know that you are under pressure in the Danish health service, but we are talking about almost 6,000 more employees in the Danish health service, and some of them can, after all, help relieve these problems. In relation to the specific case of medical costs, I would say that I and the government believe that we need to offer patients what works. If we have medication that we know works, we must offer it to patients, and I think that the treatment to be offered in our healthcare should depend on how the treatment works, what the side effects are, and it must be up to the right people in the Danish Health Authority to assess it. I do not think this should be a political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141924	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512141926	As far as I can understand from the Prime Minister, one does not want to go down the road that has been taken in Norway and Sweden, and also in England, about setting up a proper priority institute, although virtually all researchers, including a large number of our staff in the health service, say that this is actually a model to follow. If you are then out talking to our good nurses and doctors, it turns out that one of the things that also comes up is how we can lower the consumption of expensive medicines. One of the proposals mentioned by several people, as I have said, is better cooperation between what can be called the established health care, and the complementary health care services, others will call it alternative treatment. There is no doubt that more than a million Danes are going to alternative treatment in one form or another in one year. I myself came just an hour ago from a treatment that I could not get within the established system, but which I could get outside it. How does the Prime Minister think about better cooperation between established health care and complementary health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142036	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142038	I basically believe that many of these questions should be put to the Minister for Health, but my general view is that we should of course be open to the experiences and developments in the alternative areas. But again it must be the recommendations of the Danish Health Service which, on the basis of scientific evidence, indicate how that cooperation can be. I think it is important to have scientific evidence there, and it must be a basis for alternative medicine as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142113	Sir. Uffe Elbæk in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142115	If I interpret this kindly, I hear the Prime Minister saying that you will actually be open to finding out what works and whether you can also include a new experience in the established healthcare system. The last question is really about whether to legalize medical cannabis. Most recently, we were told from the fight against cancer that there was actually some very good evidence that using medical cannabis can increase patients' quality of life during treatment, especially when we are talking about cancers. At any rate, I have had a very close friend who has been through a chemotherapy course and who, indeed illegally, used medical cannabis. So what is the government's attitude to legalizing medical cannabis?
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142207	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142209	I believe that there are medications containing cannabis and that when required, they are used. If what is being asked is whether we should legalise cannabis, then the government's position is quite clear: we do not think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142229	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. For the record, I have to say that the two Faroese representatives, Mr. Sjúrður Skaale and Mr. Edmund Joensen was prevented from attending today. The question is over. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142257	Then we turn to reviews: Minister for Employment (Henrik Dam Kristensen): Bill no. L 205 (Proposal for a law on the temporary job premium for persons with long-term benefits). ) Kim Christiansen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 171 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the curfew for senior citizens' cards in the metropolitan area. ) Trine Mach (SF) and Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF): Request no. F 42 (On multidisciplinary social interventions. Increased post-protection, youth teams and youth administrations to 15-25 year olds, and does the government believe that social efforts are good enough and are used adequately in crime prevention work?)). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142329	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142354	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 106 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142422	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142439	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 103 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142502	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142517	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 97 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and ALT) voted against, 0 abstentions 8 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142542	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142601	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 92 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT) voted against, 0 abstentions 14 (DF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142626	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142646	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 107 votes and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142705	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142726	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 14 (DF), against 92 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142759	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142820	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously by 106 votes and will now be sent to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142846	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142907	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 22 (DF, EL and ALT), against 84 (V, S, RV, SF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512142941	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143025	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143052	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill proceed to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143119	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143144	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143155	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143213	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9 by a majority (Committee with the exception of LA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143229	Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143252	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (DF, LA and ALT) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. A vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 28 (DF, EL, LA, ALT and 1 (S) (by mistake)), against voting 77 (V, S, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment on the sharing of the bill has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2, 3 and 5-8, tabled and joined by the same minority, and Amendments Nos. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (ALT), lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9-11, elected by a majority (V, S, RV, SF and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143401	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143427	Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143447	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that this bill should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143504	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that this bill should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143541	Amendment No 1 has been tabled outside the report. 4. The Minister for Climate, Energy and Building has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 2 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this proposal? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. By the way, does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143629	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer has not been accepted by the Commission. 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20150512143653	I shall interrupt the sitting here [and delete the remaining items on the agenda] and convene a new sitting where we will begin the third reading of the matter which we have just dealt with second. For the sake of technology, we have to pause until 8 a.m. 14.45. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. So the next meeting of the Danish Parliament is at 8:00 p.m. 14.45.
